PXD045376	37759808	Multi-Omics Analyses Reveal Mitochondrial Dysfunction Contributing to Temozolomide Resistance in Glioblastoma Cells. 	Multi-omics Analyses Reveal Mitochondrial Dysfunction Con-tributing to Temozolomide Resistance in Glioblastoma Cells	chemoresistance, glioblastoma, mitochondrial dysfunction, mitochondrial retrograde signaling, temozolomide	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive malignant brain tumor with poor prognosis. Temozolomide (TMZ) is the standard chemotherapy for glioblastoma treatment, but TMZ resistance significantly compromises its efficacy. In the present study, we generated a TMZ-resistant cell line and identified that mitochondrial dysfunction was a novel factor contributing to TMZ resistance though multi-omics analyses and energy metabolism analysis. Furthermore, we found that rotenone treatment induced TMZ resistance to a certain level in glioblastoma cells. Notably, we further demonstrated that elevated Ca(2+) levels and JNK-STAT3 pathway activation contributed to TMZ resistance and that inhibiting JNK or STAT3 increases susceptibility to TMZ. Taken together, our results indicate that co-administering TMZ with a JNK or STAT3 inhibitor holds promise as a potentially effective treatment for glioblastoma.
PXD044040	37762413	Short Survey on the Protein Modifications in Plasma during SARS-CoV-2 Infection. 	Protein modifications in plasma during SARS-CoV-2 infection	14-prostaglandin J2, 15-deoxy-12, 4-hydroxynonenal, COVID-19, malondialdehyde, plasma proteome, protein adducts	Although the COVID-19 pandemic has ended, it is important to understand the pathology of severe SARS-CoV-2 infection associated with respiratory failure and high mortality. The plasma proteome, including protein modification by lipid peroxidation products in COVID-19 survivors (COVID-19; n = 10) and deceased individuals (CovDeath; n = 10) was compared in samples collected upon admission to the hospital, when there was no difference in their status, with that of healthy individuals (Ctr; n = 10). The obtained results show that COVID-19 development strongly alters the expression of proteins involved in the regulation of exocytosis and platelet degranulation (top 20 altered proteins indicated by analysis of variance; p-value (False Discovery Rate) cutoff at 5%). These changes were most pronounced in the CovDeath group. In addition, the levels of 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) adducts increased 2- and 3-fold, whereas malondialdehyde (MDA) adducts increased 7- and 2.5-fold, respectively, in COVID-19 and CovDeath groups. Kinases and proinflammatory proteins were particularly affected by these modifications. Protein adducts with 15-deoxy-12,14-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2) were increased 2.5-fold in COVID-19 patients, including modifications of proteins such as p53 and STAT3, whereas CovDeath showed a decrease of approximately 60% compared with Ctr. This study for the first time demonstrates the formation of lipid metabolism products-protein adducts in plasma from survived and deceased COVID-19 patients, significantly distinguishing them, which may be a predictor of the course of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD041516	37762428	The Impact of Intestinal Inflammation on Nematode's Excretory-Secretory Proteome. 	Excretory-secretory proteome of nematode Heligmosomoides polygyrus developed in colitic conditions	Excretory-secretory products, Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri, Nematode, colitis	Parasitic nematodes and their products are promising candidates for therapeutics against inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). Two species of nematodes, the hookworm Necator americanus and the whipworm Trichuis suis, are being used in clinical treatment trials of IBD referred to as "helminth therapy". Heligmosomoides polygyrus is a well-known model for human hookworm infections. Excretory-secretory (ES) products of H. polygyrus L4 stage that developed during colitis show a different immunomodulatory effect compared to the ES of H. polgyrus from healthy mice. The aim of the study was to evaluate excretory-secretory proteins produced by H. polygyrus L4 stage males and females that developed in the colitic milieu. Mass spectrometry was used to identify proteins. Blast2GO was used to investigate the functions of the discovered proteins. A total of 387 proteins were identified in the ES of H. polygyrus L4 males (HpC males), and 330 proteins were identified in the ES of L4 females that developed in the colitic milieu (HpC females). In contrast, only 200 proteins were identified in the ES of L4 males (Hp males) and 218 in the ES of L4 females (Hp females) that developed in control conditions. Most of the proteins (123) were detected in all groups. Unique proteins identified in the ES of HpC females included annexin, lysozyme-2, apyrase, and galectin. Venom allergen/Ancylostoma-secreted protein-like, transthyretin-like family proteins, and galectins were found in the secretome of HpC males but not in the secretome of control males. These molecules may be responsible for the therapeutic effects of nematodes in DSS-induced colitis.
PXD045098	37762699	Comparative Analysis of Different Proteins and Metabolites in the Liver and Ovary of Local Breeds of Chicken and Commercial Chickens in the Later Laying Period. 	Comparative Analysis of Different Proteins in the Liver and Ovary of Local Breeds of Chicken and Commercial Chickens in the Later Laying Period	aged hens, liver, ovary	The liver and ovary perform a vital role in egg production in hens. In the later laying period, the egg-laying capacity of female hens, particularly that of local breeds, declines significantly. Hence, it is essential to study the features and conditions of the ovary and liver during this period. In this research, we characterized the proteins and metabolites in the liver and ovary of 55-week-old Guangyuan gray chickens (Group G) and Hy-Line gray chickens (Group H) by using liquid chromatography chip/electrospray ionization quadruple time-of-flight/mass spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS). In total, 139 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and 186 differential metabolites (DMs) were identified in the liver, and 139 DEPs and 36 DMs were identified in the ovary. The upregulated DEPs and DMs in both the liver and ovary of Group G were primarily enriched in pathways involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism. This suggests that energy metabolism was highly active in the Guangyuan gray chickens. In contrast, the upregulated DEPs and DMs in Group H were mainly enriched in pathways associated with lipid metabolism, which may explain the higher egg production and the higher fatty liver rate in Hy-Line gray hens in the later laying period. Additionally, it was found that the unique protein s-(hydroxymethyl) glutathione dehydrogenase (ADH4) in Group G was implicated in functions such as fatty acid degradation, glycolysis, and pyruvate metabolism, whereas the unique proteins, steroid sulfatase (STS), glucosylceramidase (LOC107050229), and phospholipase A2 Group XV (PLA2G15), in Group H were involved in the metabolism of steroid hormones and glycerol phosphate. In conclusion, variations in how carbohydrates, lipids, and amino acids are processed in the liver and ovary of local breeds of chicken and commercial hens towards the end of their laying period could explain the disparities in their egg production abilities.
PXD041922	37764026	Epinephrine Affects Ribosomes, Cell Division, and Catabolic Processes in Micrococcus luteus Skin Strain C01: Revelation of the Conditionally Extensive Hormone Effect Using Orbitrap Mass Spectrometry and Proteomic Analysis. 	The effect of epinephrine on immature and mature planktonic cultures and biofilms of a commensal actinobacterium Micrococcus luteus C01	LC-MS, Micrococcus luteus, epinephrine	In the current study, extensive Orbitrap mass spectrometry analysis was conducted for skin strain Micrococcus luteus C01 planktonic cultures and biofilms after 24 h and 72 h of incubation either in the presence of epinephrine or without any implementations. The investigation revealed the complex and conditionally extensive effect of epinephrine at concentrations closer to normal blood plasma concentrations on both planktonic cultures and biofilms of skin strain M. luteus C01. The concentrations of hundreds of proteins changed during the shift from planktonic growth mode to biofilm and hundreds of proteins were downregulated or upregulated in the presence of epinephrine. Ribosomal, TCA, and cell division proteins appear to be the most altered in their amounts in the presence of the hormone. Potentially, the regulatory mechanism of this process is connected with c-di-GMP and histidine kinases, which were affected by epinephrine in different samples. The phenomenon of epinephrine-based biofilm regulation in M. luteus C01 has wide implications for microbial endocrinology and other research areas.
PXD037217	37767575	Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 is required for the maintenance of leukemia stem cell in MLL-AF9+ acute myeloid leukemia. 	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of endogenous TWIST1 immunoprecipitates in the LSCs from MLL-AF9+ AML mice	Leukemia stem cells, TWIST1	Leukemia stem cells (LSCs) are a rare population capable of limitless self-renewal and are responsible for the initiation, maintenance, and relapse of leukemia. Elucidation of the mechanisms underlying the regulation of LSC function could provide novel treatment strategies. Here, we show that TWIST1 is extremely highly expressed in the LSCs of MLL-AF9+ acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and its upregulation is positively regulated by KDM4C in an H3K9me3 demethylation-dependent manner. We further demonstrate that TWIST1 is essential for the viability, dormancy, and self-renewal capacities of LSCs, and it promotes the initiation and maintenance of MLL-AF9-mediated AML. In addition, TWIST1 directly interacts and collaborates with HOXA9 in inducing AML in mice. Mechanistically, TWIST1 exerts its oncogenic function by activating the WNT5a/RAC1 axis. Collectively, our study uncovers a critical role of TWIST1 in LSC function and provides new mechanistic insights into the pathogenesis of MLL-AF9+ AML.
PXD039816	37767629	The CCR4-NOT complex suppresses untimely translational activation of maternal mRNAs. 	Shotgun proteomics of mouse oocytes		Control of mRNA poly(A) tails is essential for regulation of mRNA metabolism, specifically translation efficiency and mRNA stability. Gene expression in maturing oocytes relies largely on post-transcriptional regulation, as genes are transcriptionally silent during oocyte maturation. The CCR4-NOT complex is a major mammalian deadenylase, which regulates poly(A) tails of maternal mRNAs; however, the function of the CCR4-NOT complex in translational regulation has not been well understood. Here, we show that this complex suppresses translational activity of maternal mRNAs during oocyte maturation. Oocytes lacking all CCR4-NOT deadenylase activity owing to genetic deletion of its catalytic subunits, Cnot7 and Cnot8, showed a large-scale gene expression change caused by increased translational activity during oocyte maturation. Developmental arrest during meiosis I in these oocytes resulted in sterility of oocyte-specific Cnot7 and Cnot8 knockout female mice. We further showed that recruitment of CCR4-NOT to maternal mRNAs is mediated by the 3'UTR element CPE, which suppresses translational activation of maternal mRNAs. We propose that suppression of untimely translational activation of maternal mRNAs via deadenylation by CCR4-NOT is essential for proper oocyte maturation.
PXD042353	37769784	The sex-specific factor SOA controls dosage compensation in Anopheles mosquitoes. 	The sex-specific factor SOA establishes X chromosome dosage compensation in Anopheles mosquitos		The Anopheles mosquito is one of thousands of species in which sex differences play a central part in their biology, as only females need a blood meal to produce eggs. Sex differentiation is regulated by sex chromosomes, but their presence creates a dosage imbalance between males (XY) and females (XX). Dosage compensation (DC) can re-equilibrate the expression of sex chromosomal genes. However, because DC mechanisms have only been fully characterized in a few model organisms, key questions about its evolutionary diversity and functional necessity remain unresolved(1). Here we report the discovery of a previously uncharacterized gene (sex chromosome activation (SOA)) as a master regulator of DC in the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae. Sex-specific alternative splicing prevents functional SOA protein expression in females. The male isoform encodes a DNA-binding protein that binds the promoters of active X chromosomal genes. Expressing male SOA is sufficient to induce DC in female cells. Male mosquitoes lacking SOA or female mosquitoes ectopically expressing the male isoform exhibit X chromosome misregulation, which is compatible with viability but causes developmental delay. Thus, our molecular analyses of a DC master regulator in a non-model organism elucidates the evolutionary steps that lead to the establishment of a chromosome-specific fine-tuning mechanism.
PXD042053	37769867	ZDHHC17 participates in the pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome by affecting androgen conversion to estrogen in granulosa cells. 	HSP90alpha palmitoylation and ZDHHC17	HSP90alpha binding proteins, S-acyltransferase	Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a prevalent endocrine disorder affecting women of reproductive age and is a significant cause of female subfertility. Our previous research demonstrated that the abnormal palmitoylation of heat shock protein-90alpha (HSP90alpha) plays a role in the development of PCOS. However, the palmitoyl acyltransferases in HSP90alpha palmitoylation remain poorly understood. Herein, we identified ZDHHC17 as a major palmitoyl acyltransferase for HSP90alpha palmitoylation in granulosa cells. ZDHHC17 protein expression was diminished under excess androgen conditions in vitro and in vivo. Consistently, ovarian ZDHHC17 expression was found to be attenuated in patients with PCOS. ZDHHC17 depletion decreased HSP90alpha palmitoylation levels and hampered the conversion of androgen to estrogen via CYP19A1. Furthermore, ZDHHC17-mediated regulation of CYP19A1 expression was dependent on HSP90alpha palmitoylation. Our findings reveal that the regulatory role of HSP90alpha palmitoylation by ZDHHC17 is critical in PCOS pathophysiology and provide insights into the role of ZDHHC17 in reproductive endocrinology.
PXD037151	37770699	Directed evolution unlocks oxygen reactivity for a nicotine-degrading flavoenzyme. 	HDX-MS of NicA2 and a NicA2 variant with increased activity	NicA2, directed evolution, nicotine oxidoreductase	The flavoenzyme nicotine oxidoreductase (NicA2) is a promising injectable treatment to aid in the cessation of smoking, a behavior responsible for one in ten deaths worldwide. NicA2 acts by degrading nicotine in the bloodstream before it reaches the brain. Clinical use of NicA2 is limited by its poor catalytic activity in the absence of its natural electron acceptor CycN. Without CycN, NicA2 is instead oxidized slowly by dioxygen (O2), necessitating unfeasibly large doses in a therapeutic setting. Here, we report a genetic selection strategy that directly links CycN-independent activity of NicA2 to growth of Pseudomonas putida S16. This selection enabled us to evolve NicA2 variants with substantial improvement in their rate of oxidation by O2. The encoded mutations cluster around a putative O2 tunnel, increasing flexibility and accessibility to O2 in this region. These mutations further confer desirable clinical properties. A variant form of NicA2 is tenfold more effective than the wild type at degrading nicotine in the bloodstream of rats.
PXD024978	37770719	Structure and activation of the RING E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM72 on the membrane. 	Human TRIM72 localizes on the microsome	TRIM72, microsome	Defects in plasma membrane repair can lead to muscle and heart diseases in humans. Tripartite motif-containing protein (TRIM)72 (mitsugumin 53; MG53) has been determined to rapidly nucleate vesicles at the site of membrane damage, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here we present the structure of Mus musculus TRIM72, a complete model of a TRIM E3 ubiquitin ligase. We demonstrated that the interaction between TRIM72 and phosphatidylserine-enriched membranes is necessary for its oligomeric assembly and ubiquitination activity. Using cryogenic electron tomography and subtomogram averaging, we elucidated a higher-order model of TRIM72 assembly on the phospholipid bilayer. Combining structural and biochemical techniques, we developed a working molecular model of TRIM72, providing insights into the regulation of RING-type E3 ligases through the cooperation of multiple domains in higher-order assemblies. Our findings establish a fundamental basis for the study of TRIM E3 ligases and have therapeutic implications for diseases associated with membrane repair.
PXD036188	37770760	Systematic analysis of drug combinations against Gram-positive bacteria. 	Thermal proteome profiling of ticagrelor in Staphylococcus aureus	Staphylococcus aureus, drugs, target engagement, thermal proteome profiling, ticagrelor	Drug combinations can expand options for antibacterial therapies but have not been systematically tested in Gram-positive species. We profiled ~8,000 combinations of 65 antibacterial drugs against the model species Bacillus subtilis and two prominent pathogens, Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Thereby, we recapitulated previously known drug interactions, but also identified ten times more novel interactions in the pathogen S. aureus, including 150 synergies. We showed that two synergies were equally effective against multidrug-resistant S. aureus clinical isolates in vitro and in vivo. Interactions were largely species-specific and synergies were distinct from those of Gram-negative species, owing to cell surface and drug uptake differences. We also tested 2,728 combinations of 44 commonly prescribed non-antibiotic drugs with 62 drugs with antibacterial activity against S. aureus and identified numerous antagonisms that might compromise the efficacy of antimicrobial therapies. We identified even more synergies and showed that the anti-aggregant ticagrelor synergized with cationic antibiotics by modifying the surface charge of S. aureus. All data can be browsed in an interactive interface ( https://apps.embl.de/combact/ ).
PXD038673	37772174	False-Positive Glycopeptide Identification via In-FAIMS Fragmentation. 	IMPROVED N- AND O-GLYCOPEPTIDE IDENTIFICATION USING HIGH-FIELD ASYMMETRIC WAVEFORM ION MOBILITY SPECTROMETRY (FAIMS)	FAIMS, GLYCOPROTEOMICS, N-GLYCOPEPTIDES, O-GLYCOPEPTIDES	High-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) separates glycopeptides in the gas phase prior to mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, thus offering the potential to analyze glycopeptides without prior enrichment. Several studies have demonstrated the ability of FAIMS to enhance glycopeptide detection but have primarily focused on N-glycosylation. Here, we evaluated FAIMS for O-glycoprotein and mucin-domain glycoprotein analysis using samples of varying complexity. We demonstrated that FAIMS was useful in increasingly complex samples as it allowed for the identification of more glycosylated species. However, during our analyses, we observed a phenomenon called "in FAIMS fragmentation" (IFF) akin to in source fragmentation but occurring during FAIMS separation. FAIMS experiments showed a 2- to 5-fold increase in spectral matches from IFF compared with control experiments. These results were also replicated in previously published data, indicating that this is likely a systemic occurrence when using FAIMS. Our study highlights that although there are potential benefits to using FAIMS separation, caution must be exercised in data analysis because of prevalent IFF, which may limit its applicability in the broader field of O-glycoproteomics.
PXD034946	37772444	Time-resolved proximity biotinylation implicates a porin protein in export of transmembrane malaria parasite effectors. 	Rapid proximity biotinylation of the Plasmodium falciparum exported protein, SBP1	malaria, plasmodium, protein export, protein trafficking, skeleton binding protein 1, turboID	The malaria-causing parasite, Plasmodium falciparum completely remodels its host red blood cell (RBC) through the export of several hundred parasite proteins, including transmembrane proteins, across multiple membranes to the RBC. However, the process by which these exported membrane proteins are extracted from the parasite plasma membrane for export remains unknown. To address this question, we fused the exported membrane protein, skeleton binding protein 1 (SBP1), with TurboID, a rapid, efficient and promiscuous biotin ligase (SBP1TbID). Using time-resolved proximity biotinylation and label-free quantitative proteomics, we identified two groups of SBP1TbID interactors - early interactors (pre-export) and late interactors (post-export). Notably, two promising membrane-associated proteins were identified as pre-export interactors, one of which possesses a predicted translocon domain, that could facilitate the export of membrane proteins. Further investigation using conditional mutants of these candidate proteins showed that these proteins were essential for asexual growth and localize to the host-parasite interface during early stages of the intraerythrocytic cycle. These data suggest that they might play a role in ushering membrane proteins from the parasite plasma membrane for export to the host RBC.
PXD037215	37773428	Isotopic and proteomic evidence for communal stability at Pre-Pottery Neolithic Jericho in the Southern Levant. 	Isotope and proteomics evidence for ancient mobility and sex bias of Pre-Pottery Neolithic Jericho in Southern Levant	PPN southern Levant, Sex bias, carbon and oxygen isotopes, mobility, strontium isotopes	As one of the key, long-term occupied sites in the Southern Levant, Jericho was one of the most important early Neolithic centres to witness social and economic changes associated with the domestication of plants and animals. This study applies strontium ((87)Sr/(86)Sr), oxygen (delta(18)O) and carbon (delta(13)C) isotope analyses to the enamel of 52 human teeth from Pre-Pottery Neolithic (PPN) layers of Jericho to directly study human diet and mobility and investigate the degree of consolidation and the flexibility of social organization of Jericho society in the PPN period. The results indicate only two non-local individuals out of the 44 sampled inhabitants identified by strontium isotope analysis and are consistent with the presence of a largely sedentary community at PPN Jericho with no evidence for large-scale migration. We also construct strontium spatial baselines ((87)Sr/(86)Sr map) with local (87)Sr/(86)Sr signatures for the sites across the Southern Levant based on systematic compilation and analysis of available data. In addition, we apply proteomic analysis of sex-specific amelogenin peptides in tooth enamel for sex estimation of the sampled individuals (n = 44), the results of which showed a sex-biased ratio (more male than female detected in this sample pool) in Jericho society during the PPN period, which may be due to the limited sample size or selective ritual practices like particular burial zones used for specific groups. We also pretreated a batch of human bone samples recovered from PPNB Jericho for stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analyses for dietary investigations. However, the extracted collagen showed poor preservation and no valid delta(13)C or delta(15)N data were obtained.
PXD036327	37773750	Targeting MCL-1 triggers DNA damage and an anti-proliferative response independent from apoptosis induction. 	Targeting MCL-1 Causes DNA Damage and Cell Cycle Arrest Independent from Apoptosis Induction	BCL-2 family, DNA damage, MCL-1, affinity enrichment mass spectrometry, apoptosis, cancer, cell cycle arrest, cell proliferation, chemotherapy, therapeutic window	MCL-1 is a high-priority target due to its dominant role in the pathogenesis and chemoresistance of cancer, yet clinical trials of MCL-1 inhibitors are revealing toxic side effects. MCL-1 biology is complex, extending beyond apoptotic regulation and confounded by its multiple isoforms, its domains of unresolved structure and function, and challenges in distinguishing noncanonical activities from the apoptotic response. We find that, in the presence or absence of an intact mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, genetic deletion or pharmacologic targeting of MCL-1 induces DNA damage and retards cell proliferation. Indeed, the cancer cell susceptibility profile of MCL-1 inhibitors better matches that of anti-proliferative than pro-apoptotic drugs, expanding their potential therapeutic applications, including synergistic combinations, but heightening therapeutic window concerns. Proteomic profiling provides a resource for mechanistic dissection and reveals the minichromosome maintenance DNA helicase as an interacting nuclear protein complex that links MCL-1 to the regulation of DNA integrity and cell-cycle progression.
PXD041525	37774000	Orthogonal Enzyme-Substrate Design Strategy for Discovery of Human Protein Palmitoyltransferase Substrates. 	A chemistry-based orthogonal enzyme-substrate design strategy for discovery of substrates of protein palmitoyltransferases	Bump-Hole, Palmitoylation, palmitoyltransferases	Protein palmitoylation, with more than 5000 substrates, is the most prevalent form of protein lipidation. Palmitoylated proteins participate in almost all areas of cellular physiology and have been linked to several human diseases. Twenty-three zDHHC enzymes catalyze protein palmitoylation with extensive overlap among the substrates of each zDHHC member. Currently, there is no global strategy to delineate the physiological substrates of individual zDHHC enzymes without perturbing the natural cellular pool. Here, we outline a general approach to accomplish this on the basis of synthetic orthogonal substrates that are only compatible with engineered zDHHC enzymes. We demonstrate the utility of this strategy by validating known substrates and use it to identify novel substrates of two human zDHHC enzymes. Finally, we employ this method to discover and explore conserved palmitoylation in a family of host restriction factors against pathogenic viruses, including SARS-CoV-2.
PXD042010	37774018	Cla4 phosphorylates histone methyltransferase Set1 to prevent its degradation by the APC/C(Cdh1) complex. 	Cla4 catalyzed Set1 phosphorylation	Cla4 Set1 phosphorylation	H3K4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) is a conserved histone modification catalyzed by histone methyltransferase Set1, and its dysregulation is associated with pathologies. Here, we show that Set1 is intrinsically unstable and elucidate how its protein levels are controlled within cell cycle and during gene transcription. Specifically, Set1 contains a destruction box (D-box) that is recognized by E3 ligase APC/C(Cdh1) and degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Cla4 phosphorylates serine 228 (S228) within Set1 D-box, which inhibits APC/C(Cdh1)-mediated Set1 proteolysis. During gene transcription, PAF complex facilitates Cla4 to phosphorylate Set1-S228 and protect chromatin-bound Set1 from degradation. By modulating Set1 stability and its binding to chromatin, Cla4 and APC/C(Cdh1) control H3K4me3 levels, which then regulate gene transcription, cell cycle progression, and chronological aging. In addition, there are 141 proteins containing the D-box that can be potentially phosphorylated by Cla4 to prevent their degradation by APC/C(Cdh1). We addressed the long-standing question about how Set1 stability is controlled and uncovered a new mechanism to regulate protein stability.
PXD042969	37774568	Limited proteolysis of mycobacterial DNA-binding protein 1 with an extended, lysine-rich, intrinsically disordered region to unveil posttranslational modifications. 	Limited proteolysis for PTM analysis	PTMs on lysine, intrinsically disordered region, limited proteolysis, protein methylation, trypsin	The basic, intrinsically disordered regions of eukaryotic histones and their bacterial counterparts are presumed to act as signaling hubs to regulate the compaction of chromosomes or nucleoids and various DNA processes such as gene expression, recombination, and DNA replication. Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) on these regions are pivotal in regulating chromosomal or nucleoid compaction and DNA processes. However, the low sequence complexity and the presence of short lysine-rich repeats in the regions have hindered the accurate determination of types and locations of PTMs using conventional proteomic procedures. We described a limited proteolysis protocol using trypsin to analyze PTMs on mycobacterial DNA-binding protein 1 (MDP1), a nucleoid-associated protein in mycobacterial species that possesses an extended, lysine-rich, intrinsically disordered region in its C-terminal domain. This limited proteolysis approach successfully revealed significant methylation on many lysine residues in the C-terminal domain of MDP1 purified from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which was lacking in the corresponding region of recombinant MDP1 expressed in Escherichia coli.
PXD045145	37774701	Highly contractile 3D tissue engineered skeletal muscles from human iPSCs reveal similarities with primary myoblast-derived tissues. 	Highly contractile 3D tissue engineered skeletal muscles from human iPSCs reveal similarities with primary myoblast-derived tissues	3D tissue, hiPSC, myongeic differentiation	Skeletal muscle research is transitioning toward 3D tissue engineered in vitro models reproducing muscle's native architecture and supporting measurement of functionality. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) offer high yields of cells for differentiation. It has been difficult to differentiate high-quality, pure 3D muscle tissues from hiPSCs that show contractile properties comparable to primary myoblast-derived tissues. Here, we present a transgene-free method for the generation of purified, expandable myogenic progenitors (MPs) from hiPSCs grown under feeder-free conditions. We defined a protocol with optimal hydrogel and medium conditions that allowed production of highly contractile 3D tissue engineered skeletal muscles with forces similar to primary myoblast-derived tissues. Gene expression and proteomic analysis between hiPSC-derived and primary myoblast-derived 3D tissues revealed a similar expression profile of proteins involved in myogenic differentiation and sarcomere function. The protocol should be generally applicable for the study of personalized human skeletal muscle tissue in health and disease.
PXD016404	37774976	Comparative proximity biotinylation implicates the small GTPase RAB18 in sterol mobilization and biosynthesis. 	BioID2(Gly40Ser)-SEC22A proximity biotinylation in HeLa cells	BioID, BioID2, HeLa, RAB18, RAB3GAP1, RAb3GAP2, SEC22A	Loss of functional RAB18 causes the autosomal recessive condition Warburg Micro syndrome. To better understand this disease, we used proximity biotinylation to generate an inventory of potential RAB18 effectors. A restricted set of 28 RAB18 interactions were dependent on the binary RAB3GAP1-RAB3GAP2 RAB18-guanine nucleotide exchange factor complex. Twelve of these 28 interactions are supported by prior reports, and we have directly validated novel interactions with SEC22A, TMCO4, and INPP5B. Consistent with a role for RAB18 in regulating membrane contact sites, interactors included groups of microtubule/membrane-remodeling proteins, membrane-tethering and docking proteins, and lipid-modifying/transporting proteins. Two of the putative interactors, EBP and OSBPL2/ORP2, have sterol substrates. EBP is a Delta8-Delta7 sterol isomerase, and ORP2 is a lipid transport protein. This prompted us to investigate a role for RAB18 in cholesterol biosynthesis. We found that the cholesterol precursor and EBP-product lathosterol accumulates in both RAB18-null HeLa cells and RAB3GAP1-null fibroblasts derived from an affected individual. Furthermore, de novo cholesterol biosynthesis is impaired in cells in which RAB18 is absent or dysregulated or in which ORP2 expression is disrupted. Our data demonstrate that guanine nucleotide exchange factor-dependent Rab interactions are highly amenable to interrogation by proximity biotinylation and may suggest that Micro syndrome is a cholesterol biosynthesis disorder.
PXD020024	37775701	Fallopian tube lesions as potential precursors of early ovarian cancer: a comprehensive proteomic analysis. 	Fallopian tube lesions as potential precursors of early ovarian cancer: A comprehensive proteomic analysis.	IHC, Oavrian cancer, pre-neoplastic lesions, spatially resolved proteomics	Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death from gynecologic cancer worldwide. High-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) is the most common and deadliest subtype of ovarian cancer. While the origin of ovarian tumors is still debated, it has been suggested that HGSC originates from cells in the fallopian tube epithelium (FTE), specifically the epithelial cells in the region of the tubal-peritoneal junction. Three main lesions, p53 signatures, STILs, and STICs, have been defined based on the immunohistochemistry (IHC) pattern of p53 and Ki67 markers and the architectural alterations of the cells, using the Sectioning and Extensively Examining the Fimbriated End Protocol. In this study, we performed an in-depth proteomic analysis of these pre-neoplastic epithelial lesions guided by mass spectrometry imaging and IHC. We evaluated specific markers related to each preneoplastic lesion. The study identified specific lesion markers, such as CAVIN1, Emilin2, and FBLN5. We also used SpiderMass technology to perform a lipidomic analysis and identified the specific presence of specific lipids signature including dietary Fatty acids precursors in lesions. Our study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the progression of ovarian cancer and confirms the fimbria origin of HGSC.
PXD038242	37776539	Anticodon sequence determines the impact of mistranslating tRNA(Ala) variants. 	Quantifying mistranslation from alanine tRNA anticodon variants in S. cerevisiae	mistranslation, tRNA variants	Transfer RNAs (tRNAs) maintain translation fidelity through accurate charging by their cognate aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase and codon:anticodon base pairing with the mRNA at the ribosome. Mistranslation occurs when an amino acid not specified by the genetic message is incorporated into proteins and has applications in biotechnology, therapeutics and is relevant to disease. Since the alanyl-tRNA synthetase uniquely recognizes a G3:U70 base pair in tRNA(Ala) and the anticodon plays no role in charging, tRNA(Ala) variants with anticodon mutations have the potential to mis-incorporate alanine. Here, we characterize the impact of the 60 non-alanine tRNA(Ala) anticodon variants on the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Overall, 36 tRNA(Ala) anticodon variants decreased growth in single- or multi-copy. Mass spectrometry analysis of the cellular proteome revealed that 52 of 57 anticodon variants, not decoding alanine or stop codons, induced mistranslation when on single-copy plasmids. Variants with G/C-rich anticodons resulted in larger growth deficits than A/U-rich variants. In most instances, synonymous anticodon variants impact growth differently, with anticodons containing U at base 34 being the least impactful. For anticodons generating the same amino acid substitution, reduced growth generally correlated with the abundance of detected mistranslation events. Differences in decoding specificity, even between synonymous anticodons, resulted in each tRNA(Ala) variant mistranslating unique sets of peptides and proteins. We suggest that these differences in decoding specificity are also important in determining the impact of tRNA(Ala) anticodon variants.
PXD045021	37777507	FGF18 alleviates hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury via the USP16-mediated KEAP1/Nrf2 signaling pathway in male mice. 	To explore potential proteins that bind to usp16	HEK293 mass, flag-usp16-ip	Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a common complication occurs during hepatic resection and transplantation. However, the mechanisms underlying hepatic IRI have not been fully elucidated. Here, we aim to explore the role of fibroblast growth factor 18 (FGF18) in hepatic IRI. In this work, we find that Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) secrete FGF18 and alleviates hepatocytes injury. HSCs-specific FGF18 deletion largely aggravates hepatic IRI. Mechanistically, FGF18 treatment reduces the levels of ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 16 (USP16), leading to increased ubiquitination levels of Kelch Like ECH Associated Protein 1 (KEAP1) and the activation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Furthermore, USP16 interacts and deubiquitinates KEAP1. More importantly, Nrf2 directly binds to the promoter of USP16 and forms a negative feedback loop with USP16. Collectively, our results show FGF18 alleviates hepatic IRI by USP16/KEAP1/Nrf2 signaling pathway in male mice, suggesting that FGF18 represents a promising therapeutic approach for hepatic IRI.
PXD043233	37777570	Fuzzy interactions between the auto-phosphorylated C-terminus and the kinase domain of CK1delta inhibits activation of TAp63alpha. 	Fuzzy interactions between the auto-phosphorylated C-terminus and the kinase domain of CK1delta inhibits activation of TAp63alpha	CK1, DNA damage, ovarian reserve, p53 family, p63, phosphorylation, premature ovarian insufficiency, quality control, tetramerization	The p53 family member TAp63alpha plays an important role in maintaining the genetic integrity in oocytes. DNA damage, in particular DNA double strand breaks, lead to the transformation of the inhibited, only dimeric conformation into the active tetrameric one that results in the initiation of an apoptotic program. Activation requires phosphorylation by the kinase CK1 which phosphorylates TAp63alpha at four positions. The third phosphorylation event is the decisive step that transforms TAp63alpha into the active state. This third phosphorylation, however, is ~ 20 times slower than the first two phosphorylation events. This difference in the phosphorylation kinetics constitutes a safety mechanism that allows oocytes with a low degree of DNA damage to survive. So far these kinetic investigations of the phosphorylation steps have been performed with the isolated CK1 kinase domain. However, all CK1 enzymes contain C-terminal extensions that become auto-phosphorylated and inhibit the activity of the kinase. Here we have investigated the effect of auto-phosphorylation of the C-terminus in the kinase CK1delta and show that it slows down phosphorylation of the first two sites in TAp63alpha but basically inhibits the phosphorylation of the third site. We have identified up to ten auto-phosphorylation sites in the CK1delta C-terminal domain and show that all of them interact with the kinase domain in a "fuzzy" way in which not a single site is particularly important. Through mutation analysis we further show that hydrophobic amino acids following the phosphorylation site are important for a substrate to be able to successfully compete with the auto-inhibitory effect of the C-terminal domain. This auto-phosphorylation adds a new layer to the regulation of apoptosis in oocytes.
PXD034119	37777597	The oxidoreductase activity of Rnf balances redox cofactors during fermentation of glucose to propionate in Prevotella. 	Proteomics of Prevotella brevis GA33 and Prevotella ruminicola 23	LC-MS, bacteria, rumen	Propionate is a microbial metabolite formed in the gastrointestinal tract, and it affects host physiology as a source of energy and signaling molecule. Despite the importance of propionate, the biochemical pathways responsible for its formation are not clear in all microbes. For the succinate pathway used during fermentation, a key enzyme appears to be missing-one that oxidizes ferredoxin and reduces NAD. Here we show that Rnf [ferredoxin-NAD(+) oxidoreductase (Na(+)-transporting)] is this key enzyme in two abundant bacteria of the rumen (Prevotella brevis and Prevotella ruminicola). We found these bacteria form propionate, succinate, and acetate with the classic succinate pathway. Without ferredoxin:NAD(+) oxidoreductase, redox cofactors would be unbalanced; it would produce almost equal excess amounts of reduced ferredoxin and oxidized NAD. By combining growth experiments, genomics, proteomics, and enzyme assays, we point to the possibility that these bacteria solve this problem by oxidizing ferredoxin and reducing NAD with Rnf [ferredoxin-NAD(+) oxidoreductase (Na(+)-transporting)]. Genomic and phenotypic data suggest many bacteria may use Rnf similarly. This work shows the ferredoxin:NAD(+) oxidoreductase activity of Rnf is important to propionate formation in Prevotella species and other bacteria from the environment, and it provides fundamental knowledge for manipulating fermentative propionate production.
PXD045298	37777962	ApoE4-dependent lysosomal cholesterol accumulation impairs mitochondrial homeostasis and oxidative phosphorylation in human astrocytes. 	ApoE4-dependent lysosomal cholesterol accumulation impairs mitochondrial homeostasis and oxidative phosphorylation in human astrocytes	ApoE4, glucose metabolism, human astrocytes, lysosomal cholesterol accumulation, mitophagy	Recent developments in genome sequencing have expanded the knowledge of genetic factors associated with late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among them, genetic variant epsilon4 of the APOE gene (APOE4) confers the greatest disease risk. Dysregulated glucose metabolism is an early pathological feature of AD. Using isogenic ApoE3 and ApoE4 astrocytes derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells, we find that ApoE4 increases glycolytic activity but impairs mitochondrial respiration in astrocytes. Ultrastructural and autophagy flux analyses show that ApoE4-induced cholesterol accumulation impairs lysosome-dependent removal of damaged mitochondria. Acute treatment with cholesterol-depleting agents restores autophagic activity, mitochondrial dynamics, and associated proteomes, and extended treatment rescues mitochondrial respiration in ApoE4 astrocytes. Taken together, our study provides a direct link between ApoE4-induced lysosomal cholesterol accumulation and abnormal oxidative phosphorylation.
PXD044188	37778379	An unbiased proteomic analysis of PAD4 in human monocytes: novel substrates, binding partners and subcellular localizations. 	Citrullinated proteins in monocyte organelle fractions	citrullination, monocytes	Peptidylarginine deiminase IV (PAD4) post-translationally converts arginine residues in proteins to citrullines and is implicated in playing a central role in the pathogenesis of several diseases. Although PAD4 was historically thought to be a nuclear enzyme, recent evidence has revealed a more complex localization of PAD4 with evidence of additional cytosolic and cell surface localization and activity. However, the mechanisms by which PAD4, which lacks conventional secretory signal sequences, traffics to extranuclear localizations are unknown. In this study, we show that PAD4 was enriched in the organelle fraction of monocytes with evidence of citrullination of organelle proteins. We also demonstrated that PAD4 can bind to several cytosolic, nuclear and organelle proteins that may serve as binding partners for PAD4 to traffic intracellularly. Additionally, cell surface expression of PAD4 increased with monocyte differentiation into monocyte-derived dendritic cells and co-localized with several endocytic/autophagic and conventional secretory pathway markers, implicating the use of these pathways by PAD4 to traffic within the cell. Our results suggest that PAD4 is expressed in multiple subcellular localizations and may play previously unappreciated roles in physiological and pathological conditions. This article is part of the Theo Murphy meeting issue 'The virtues and vices of protein citrullination'.
PXD035417	37779326	Discovery of a Potent Deubiquitinase (DUB) Small-Molecule Activity-Based Probe Enables Broad Spectrum DUB Activity Profiling in Living Cells. 	Electrophile scanning by chemical prote-omics reveals a potent pan-active DUB probe for investigation of deubiquitinase activity in live cells	DUB, Deubiquitinase, MYC-deregulated cancer, activity-based probe, chemical probe, electrophilic war-head, enzyme targeting, ubiquitin, ubiquitin-activity base probe	Deubiquitinases (DUBs) are a family of >100 proteases that hydrolyze isopeptide bonds linking ubiquitin to protein substrates, often leading to reduced substrate degradation through the ubiquitin proteasome system. Deregulation of DUB activity has been implicated in many diseases, including cancer, neurodegeneration and auto-inflammation, and several have been recognized as attractive targets for therapeutic intervention. Ubiquitin-derived covalent activity-based probes (ABPs) provide a powerful tool for DUB activity profiling, but their large recognition element impedes cellular permeability and presents an unmet need for small molecule ABPs which can account for regulation of DUB activity in intact cells or organisms. Here, through comprehensive chemoproteomic warhead profiling, we identify cyanopyrrolidine (CNPy) probe IMP-2373 (12) as a small molecule pan-DUB ABP to monitor DUB activity in physiologically relevant live cells. Through proteomics and targeted assays, we demonstrate that IMP-2373 quantitatively engages more than 35 DUBs across a range of non-toxic concentrations in diverse cell lines. We further demonstrate its application to quantification of changes in intracellular DUB activity during pharmacological inhibition and during MYC deregulation in a model of B cell lymphoma. IMP-2373 thus offers a complementary tool to ubiquitin ABPs to monitor dynamic DUB activity in the context of disease-relevant phenotypes.
PXD035633	37779900	Synergy between a cytoplasmic vWFA/VIT protein and a WD40-repeat F-box protein controls development in Dictyostelium. 	Synergy between a cytoplasmic vWFA/VIT protein and a WD40-repeat F-box protein controls development in the social amoeba Dictyostelium (FbxwD IP)	E3(SCF)ubiquitin-ligase, F-box protein, RING, Skp1, VIT, cellular slime mold, glycosylation, vFWA, von Willebrand domain A	Like most eukaryotes, the pre-metazoan social amoeba Dictyostelium depends on the SCF (Skp1/cullin-1/F-box protein) family of E3 ubiquitin ligases to regulate its proteome. In Dictyostelium, starvation induces a transition from unicellular feeding to a multicellular slug that responds to external signals to culminate into a fruiting body containing terminally differentiated stalk and spore cells. These transitions are subject to regulation by F-box proteins and O2-dependent posttranslational modifications of Skp1. Here we examine in greater depth the essential role of FbxwD and Vwa1, an intracellular vault protein inter-alpha-trypsin (VIT) and von Willebrand factor-A (vWFA) domain containing protein that was found in the FbxwD interactome by co-immunoprecipitation. Reciprocal co-IPs using gene-tagged strains confirmed the interaction and similar changes in protein levels during multicellular development suggested co-functioning. FbxwD overexpression and proteasome inhibitors did not affect Vwa1 levels suggesting a non-substrate relationship. Forced FbxwD overexpression in slug tip cells where it is normally enriched interfered with terminal cell differentiation by a mechanism that depended on its F-box and RING domains, and on Vwa1 expression itself. Whereas vwa1-disruption alone did not affect development, overexpression of either of its three conserved domains arrested development but the effect depended on Vwa1 expression. Based on structure predictions, we propose that the Vwa1 domains exert their negative effect by artificially activating Vwa1 from an autoinhibited state, which in turn imbalances its synergistic function with FbxwD. Autoinhibition or homodimerization might be relevant to the poorly understood tumor suppressor role of the evolutionarily related VWA5A/BCSC-1 in humans.
PXD044225	37781043	Beauvericin suppresses the proliferation and pulmonary metastasis of osteosarcoma by selectively inhibiting TGFBR2 pathway. 	TMT analysis of phosphorylated proteomics of human osteosarcoma cell 143B treated with BEA	BEA, Human Proteome Project, Osteosarcoma, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Osteosarcoma (OS) patients, particularly those with distant metastasis, experience rapid progression and derive poor survival benefits from traditional therapies. Currently, effective drugs for treating patients with metastatic OS remain scarce. Here, we found that the cyclic hexadepsipeptide beauvericin (BEA) functioned as a new selective TGFBR2 inhibitor with potent antiproliferative and antimetastatic activities against OS cells. Functionally, BEA inhibited TGF-beta signaling-mediated proliferation, invasiveness, mesenchymal phenotype, and extracellular matrix remodeling of OS cells, and suppressed tumor growth and reduced pulmonary metastasis in vivo. Mechanistic investigation revealed that BEA selectively and directly bound to Asn 332 of TGFBR2 and inhibited its kinase activity, thereby suppressing the aggressive progression of OS cells. Together, our study identifies an innovative and natural selective TGFBR2 inhibitor with effective antineoplastic activity against metastatic OS and demonstrates that targeting TGFBR2 could be a potential therapeutic strategy for metastatic OS.
PXD042286	37782577	Bull Sperm SWATH-MS-Based Proteomics Reveals Link between High Fertility and Energy Production, Motility Structures, and Sperm-Oocyte Interaction. 	Bull sperm SWATH-MS-based proteomics reveals link between  high fertility and energy production, motility structures, and sperm-oocyte interaction. Quantitation	Computer-Assisted Sperm Analysis, bull, fertility, flow cytometry, sperm	The prediction of male or semen fertility potential remains a persistent challenge that has yet to be fully resolved. This work analyzed several in vitro parameters and proteome of spermatozoa in bulls cataloged as high- (HF; n = 5) and low-field (LF; n = 5) fertility after more than a thousand artificial inseminations. Sperm motility was evaluated by computer-assisted sperm analysis. Sperm viability, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and reactive oxygen species (mROS) of spermatozoa were assessed by flow cytometry. Proteome was evaluated by the SWATH-MS procedure. Spermatozoa of HF bulls showed significantly higher total motility than the LF group (41.4% vs 29.7%). Rates of healthy sperm (live, high MMP, and low mROS) for HF and LF bull groups were 49% and 43%, respectively (p > 0.05). Spermatozoa of HF bulls showed a higher presence of differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) related to both energy production (COX7C), mainly the OXPHOS pathway, and the development of structures linked with the motility process (TPPP2, SSMEM1, and SPAG16). Furthermore, we observed that equatorin (EQTN), together with other DAPs related to the interaction with the oocyte, was overrepresented in HF bull spermatozoa. The biological processes related to protein processing, catabolism, and protein folding were found to be overrepresented in LF bull sperm in which the HSP90AA1 chaperone was identified as the most DAP. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042286.
PXD048886	37789080	Identification of KIFC1 as an independent prognostic marker in renal clear cell carcinoma correlates with tumor proliferation and immune infiltration. 	Primarily Dissecting the Autonomous and Cooperative Functions of METTL3 and METTL14 in mRNA Modification and Tumor Progression	METTL14, METTL3, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, independent, proliferation, splicing	Renal clear cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the world's most common form of cancer. Up to a third will develop metastases; the 5-year survival rate of the patients was only 14%. Practical prognostic markers remain to be discovered. Kinesin-like protein (KIFC1), a critical factor in maintaining the stability of the microtubule system, has significant prognostic value in some tumors. We analyzed the prognostic value, associated signaling pathways, and regulatory mechanisms of KIFC1 in ccRCC through bioinformatics and proteomics. Concretely, both mRNA and protein expression levels of KIFC1 were dramatically upregulated. KIFC1 is an independent prognostic factor for ccRCC. The expression of KIFC1 showed a significant positive correlation (Spearman coefficient > 0.7) with tumor proliferation-related pathways (tumor proliferation, G2/M checkpoint, and DNA replication) and tumor inflammation. Further, intratumoral immune cell analysis revealed that high expression of KIFC1 predicted more infiltration of CD8 + T and CD4 + T cells (p < 0.001). However, there was a significant positive relationship between CD8 + T cells and numerous immune checkpoint genes. CD8 + T cells in tumors from the KIFC1 high expression group were at the dysregulated state. High expression of KIFC1 may predict a poor immunotherapy outcome. By proteomics, we analyzed proteins interacting with KIFC1; spliceosome proteins had the most significant enrichment, indicating the new directions for KIFC1 investigation. In conclusion, our study identified KIFC1 as an independent prognostic factor in renal clear cell carcinoma, and the associated processes involved tumor proliferation and immune infiltration. KIFC1 had a close relationship with spliceosome proteins; it may be a new research direction.
PXD050199	37790429	Fibrinolytic-deficiencies predispose hosts to septicemia from a catheter-associated UTI. 	Human and Mouse Urinary Catheter Proteins	Human Catheters, Mouse Catheters, Urinary catheter proteins	Catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs) are amongst the most common nosocomial infections worldwide and are difficult to treat due to multi-drug resistance development among the CAUTI-related pathogens. Importantly, CAUTI often leads to secondary bloodstream infections and death. A major challenge is to predict when patients will develop CAUTIs and which populations are at-risk for bloodstream infections. Catheter-induced inflammation promotes fibrinogen (Fg) and fibrin accumulation in the bladder which are exploited as a biofilm formation platform by CAUTI pathogens. Using our established mouse model of CAUTI, we identified that host populations exhibiting either genetic or acquired fibrinolytic-deficiencies, inducing fibrin deposition in the catheterized bladder, are predisposed to severe CAUTI and septicemia by diverse uropathogens in mono- and poly-microbial infections. Furthermore, we found that E. faecalis, a prevalent CAUTI pathogen, uses the secreted protease, SprE, to induce fibrin accumulation and create a niche ideal for growth, biofilm formation, and persistence during CAUTI.
PXD047102	37790518	Illuminating the Function of the Orphan Transporter, SLC22A10 in Humans and Other Primates. 	Illuminating the Function of the Orphan Transporter, SLC22A10 in Humans and Other Primates	HEK293, SLC22A10	SLC22A10 is classified as an orphan transporter with unknown substrates and function. Here we describe the discovery of the substrate specificity and functional characteristics of SLC22A10. The human SLC22A10 tagged with green fluorescent protein was found to be absent from the plasma membrane, in contrast to the SLC22A10 orthologs found in great apes. Estradiol-17beta-glucuronide accumulated in cells expressing great ape SLC22A10 orthologs (over 4-fold, p<0.001). In contrast, human SLC22A10 displayed no uptake function. Sequence alignments revealed two amino acid differences including a proline at position 220 of the human SLC22A10 and a leucine at the same position of great ape orthologs. Site-directed mutagenesis yielding the human SLC22A10-P220L produced a protein with excellent plasma membrane localization and associated uptake function. Neanderthal and Denisovan genomes show human-like sequences at proline 220 position, corroborating that SLC22A10 were rendered nonfunctional during hominin evolution after the divergence from the pan lineage (chimpanzees and bonobos). These findings demonstrate that human SLC22A10 is a unitary pseudogene and was inactivated by a missense mutation that is fixed in humans, whereas orthologs in great apes transport sex steroid conjugates.
PXD035269	37790937	Comparative transcriptomic and proteomic signature of lung alveolar macrophages reveals the integrin CD11b as a regulatory hub during pneumococcal pneumonia infection. 	CD11b restricts alveolar macrophage activation during pneumococcal pneumonia and prevents excessive lung inflammation	Alveolar Macrophages, Integrin alpha-M, Streptococcus pneumoniae	Introduction: Streptococcus pneumoniae is one of the main causes of community-acquired infections in the lung alveoli in children and the elderly. Alveolar macrophages (AM) patrol alveoli in homeostasis and under infectious conditions. However, the molecular adaptations of AM upon infections with Streptococcus pneumoniae are incompletely resolved. Methods: We used a comparative transcriptomic and proteomic approach to provide novel insights into the cellular mechanism that changes the molecular signature of AM during lung infections. Using a tandem mass spectrometry approach to murine cell-sorted AM, we revealed significant proteomic changes upon lung infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae. Results: AM showed a strong neutrophil-associated proteomic signature, such as expression of CD11b, MPO, neutrophil gelatinases, and elastases, which was associated with phagocytosis of recruited neutrophils. Transcriptomic analysis indicated intrinsic expression of CD11b by AM. Moreover, comparative transcriptomic and proteomic profiling identified CD11b as the central molecular hub in AM, which influenced neutrophil recruitment, activation, and migration. Discussion: In conclusion, our study provides novel insights into the intrinsic molecular adaptations of AM upon lung infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae and reveals profound alterations critical for effective antimicrobial immunity.
PXD041750	37792298	Unraveling adipose tissue proteomic landscapes in severe obesity: insights into metabolic complications and potential biomarkers. 	The Hidden Culprit of Visceral Fat: Dysfunctional Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue - Serum proteomics	Adipose tissue, Obesity, Serum proteomics, Subcutaneous adipose tissue, Type 2 diabetes, Visceral adipose tissue	In this study, we aimed to comprehensively characterize the proteomic landscapes of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) and visceral adipose tissue (VAT) in patients with severe obesity, to establish their associations with clinical characteristics, and to identify potential serum protein biomarkers indicative of tissue-specific alterations or metabolic states. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of 32 patients with severe obesity (16 males and 16 females) of Central European descent who underwent bariatric surgery. Clinical parameters and body composition were assessed using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and bioelectrical impedance, with 15 patients diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and 17 with hypertension. Paired SAT and VAT samples, along with serum samples, were subjected to state-of-the-art proteomics liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Our analysis identified 7,284 proteins across SAT and VAT, with 1,249 differentially expressed proteins between the tissues and 1,206 proteins identified in serum. Correlation analyses between differential protein expression and clinical traits suggest a significant role of SAT in the pathogenesis of obesity and related metabolic complications. Specifically, the SAT proteomic profile revealed marked alterations in metabolic pathways and processes contributing to tissue fibrosis and inflammation. Although we do not establish a definitive causal relationship, it appears that VAT might respond to SAT metabolic dysfunction by potentially enhancing mitochondrial activity and expanding its capacity. However, when this adaptive response is exceeded, it could possibly contribute to insulin resistance (IR) and in some cases, it may be associated with the progression to T2D. Our findings provide critical insights into the molecular foundations of SAT and VAT in obesity and may inform the development of targeted therapeutic strategies.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study provides insights into distinct proteomic profiles of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT), visceral adipose tissue (VAT), and serum in patients with severe obesity and their associations with clinical traits and body composition. It underscores SAT's crucial role in obesity development and related complications, such as insulin resistance (IR) and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Our findings emphasize the importance of understanding the SAT and VAT balance in energy homeostasis, proteostasis, and the potential role of SAT capacity in the development of metabolic disorders.
PXD041908	37792491	Targeting APEX2 to the mRNA encoding fatty acid synthase beta in yeast identifies interacting proteins that control its abundance in the cell cycle. 	Targeting APEX2 to the mRNA encoding fatty acid synthase beta in yeast identifies proteins that bind and control its translational efficiency in the cell cycle	proximity labeling	Profiling the repertoire of proteins associated with a given mRNA during the cell cycle is unstudied. Furthermore, it is easier to ask and answer what mRNAs a specific protein might bind to than the other way around. Here, we implemented an RNA-centric proximity labeling technology at different points in the cell cycle in highly synchronous yeast cultures. To understand how the abundance of FAS1, encoding fatty acid synthase, peaks late in the cell cycle, we identified proteins that interact with the FAS1 transcript in a cell cycle-dependent manner. We used dCas13d-APEX2 fusions to target FAS1 and label nearby proteins, which were then identified by mass spectrometry. The glycolytic enzyme Tdh3p, a known RNA-binding protein, interacted with the FAS1 mRNA, and it was necessary for the periodic abundance of Fas1p in the cell cycle. These results point to unexpected connections between major metabolic pathways. They also underscore the role of mRNA-protein interactions for gene expression during cell division.
PXD045400	37792531	Stress-induced endocytosis from chloroplast inner envelope membrane is mediated by CHLOROPLAST VESICULATION but inhibited by GAPC. 	Stress-induced endocytosis from chloroplast inner envelope membrane is mediated by Chloroplast Vesiculation (CV) but inhibited by GAPC	GFP	Clathrin-mediated vesicular formation and trafficking are responsible for molecular cargo transport and signal transduction among organelles. Our previous study shows that CHLOROPLAST VESICULATION (CV)-containing vesicles (CVVs) are generated from chloroplasts for chloroplast degradation under abiotic stress. Here, we show that CV interacts with the clathrin heavy chain (CHC) and induces vesicle budding toward the cytosol from the chloroplast inner envelope membrane. In the defective mutants of CHC2 and the dynamin-encoding DRP1A, CVV budding and releasing from chloroplast are impeded. The mutations of CHC2 inhibit CV-induced chloroplast degradation and hypersensitivity to water stress. Moreover, CV-CHC2 interaction is impaired by the oxidized GLYCERALDEHYDE-3-PHOSPHATE DEHYDROGENASE (GAPC). GAPC1 overexpression suppresses CV-mediated chloroplast degradation and hypersensitivity to water stress, while CV silencing alleviates the hypersensitivity of the gapc1gapc2 plant to water stress. Together, our work identifies a pathway of clathrin-assisted CVV budding outward from chloroplast, which is involved in chloroplast degradation and stress response.
PXD032039	37792532	Negative feedback regulation of MAPK signaling is an important driver of chronic lymphocytic leukemia progression. 	DUSP1/6-mediated phosphorylation signaling events in CLL	DNA damage response, DUSP1, DUSP6, apoptosis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, phosphoproteomics	Despite available targeted treatments for the disease, drug-resistant chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) poses a clinical challenge. The objective of this study is to examine whether the dual-specific phosphatases DUSP1 and DUSP6 are required to negatively regulate mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and thus counterbalance excessive MAPK activity. We show that high expression of DUSP6 in CLL correlates with poor clinical prognosis. Importantly, genetic deletion of the inhibitory phosphatase DUSP1 or DUSP6 and blocking DUSP1/6 function using a small-molecule inhibitor reduces CLL cell survival in vitro and in vivo. Using global phospho-proteome approaches, we observe acute activation of MAPK signaling by DUSP1/6 inhibition. This promotes accumulation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and, thereby, DNA damage and apoptotic cell death in CLL cells. Finally, we observe that DUSP1/6 inhibition is particularly effective against treatment-resistant CLL and therefore suggest transient DUSP1/6 inhibition as a promising treatment concept to eliminate drug-resistant CLL cells.
PXD043410	37793102	Tandem Mass Tag-Based Proteomic Profiling Identifies Biomarkers in Drainage Fluid for Early Detection of Anastomotic Leakage after Rectal Cancer Resection. 	Tandem mass tag-based proteomic profiling of drainage fluid	LC-MS, drainage fluid	Anastomotic leakage (AL), one of the most severe complications in rectal surgery, is often diagnosed late because of the low specificity of the clinical symptoms and limitations of current clinical investigations. Identification of patients with early AL remains challenging. Here, we explored the protein expression profiles of AL patients to provide potential biomarkers to identify AL in patients who undergo surgery for rectal cancer. We screened differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in drainage fluid from AL and non-AL patients using a tandem mass tag method. A total of 248 DEPs, including 98 upregulated and 150 downregulated proteins, were identified between AL and non-AL groups. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses suggested that DEPs were enriched in neutrophil degranulation, bacterial infection, proteolysis, hemostasis, and complement and coagulation cascades. The results of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay validated that the expression of the top three upregulated DEPs, AMY2A, RETN, and CELA3A, was significantly increased in the drainage fluid of AL patients, compared with that of non-AL patients (AMY2A, P = 0.001; RETN, P < 0.0001; and CELA3A, P = 0.023). Thus, our findings provide several potential biomarkers for the early diagnosis of AL after rectal cancer resection.
PXD039972	37793503	Early Proteomic Characteristics and Changes in the Optic Nerve Head, Optic Nerve, and Retina in a Rat Model of Ocular Hypertension. 	Early proteomic characteristics and changes in eye tissues in a rat model of ocular hypertension	Glaucoma	The pathogenesis of glaucoma is still unknown. There are few studies on the dynamic change of tissue-specific and time-specific molecular pathophysiology caused by ocular hypertension (OHT). This study aimed to identify the early proteomic alterations in the retina, optic nerve head (ONH), and optic nerve (ON). After establishing a rat model of OHT, we harvested the tissues from control and glaucomatous eyes and analyzed the changes in protein expression using a multiplexed quantitative proteomics approach (TMT-MS3). Our study identified 6403 proteins after 1-day OHT and 4399 proteins after 7-days OHT in the retina, 5493 proteins after 1-day OHT and 4544 proteins after 7-days OHT in ONH, and 5455 proteins after 1-day OHT and 3835 proteins after 7-days OHT in the ON. Of these, 560 and 489 differential proteins were identified on day 1 and 7 after OHT in the retina, 428 and 761 differential proteins were identified on day 1 and 7 after OHT in the ONH, and 257 and 205 differential proteins on days 1 and 7 after OHT in the ON. Computational analysis on day 1 and 7 of OHT revealed that alpha-2 macroglobulin was upregulated across two time points and three tissues stably. The differentially expressed proteins between day 1 and 7 after OHT in the retina, ONH, and ON were associated with glutathione metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction/oxidative phosphorylation, oxidative stress, microtubule, and crystallin. And the most significant change in retina are crystallins. We validated this proteomic result with the Western blot of crystallin proteins and found that upregulated on day 1 but recovered on day 7 after OHT, which are promising as therapeutic targets. These findings provide insights into the time- and region-order mechanisms that are specifically affected in the retina, ONH, and ON in response to elevated IOP during the early stages.
PXD044586	37794019	Structure of the ceramide-bound SPOTS complex. 	Sac1 interaction proteomics of ALFA Sac1 and mutants	S. cerevisiae, Sac1	Sphingolipids are structural membrane components that also function in cellular stress responses. The serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT) catalyzes the rate-limiting step in sphingolipid biogenesis. Its activity is tightly regulated through multiple binding partners, including Tsc3, Orm proteins, ceramides, and the phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PI4P) phosphatase Sac1. The structural organization and regulatory mechanisms of this complex are not yet understood. Here, we report the high-resolution cryo-EM structures of the yeast SPT in complex with Tsc3 and Orm1 (SPOT) as dimers and monomers and a monomeric complex further carrying Sac1 (SPOTS). In all complexes, the tight interaction of the downstream metabolite ceramide and Orm1 reveals the ceramide-dependent inhibition. Additionally, observation of ceramide and ergosterol binding suggests a co-regulation of sphingolipid biogenesis and sterol metabolism within the SPOTS complex.
PXD041761	37794075	Xenopus Ssbp2 is required for embryonic pronephros morphogenesis and terminal differentiation. 	Xenopus laevis kidney-induced animal caps nanoLC-MS/MS - Xenopus Ssbp2 is required for embryonic pronephros morphogenesis and terminal differentiation.	Kidney, Xenopus, animal caps, lhx1, ssbp2	The nephron, functional unit of the vertebrate kidney, is specialized in metabolic wastes excretion and body fluids osmoregulation. Given the high evolutionary conservation of gene expression and segmentation patterning between mammalian and amphibian nephrons, the Xenopus laevis pronephric kidney offers a simplified model for studying nephrogenesis. The Lhx1 transcription factor plays several roles during embryogenesis, regulating target genes expression by forming multiprotein complexes with LIM binding protein 1 (Ldb1). However, few Lhx1-Ldb1 cofactors have been identified for kidney organogenesis. By tandem- affinity purification from kidney-induced Xenopus animal caps, we identified single-stranded DNA binding protein 2 (Ssbp2) interacts with the Ldb1-Lhx1 complex. Ssbp2 is expressed in the Xenopus pronephros, and knockdown prevents normal morphogenesis and differentiation of the glomus and the convoluted renal tubules. We demonstrate a role for a member of the Ssbp family in kidney organogenesis and provide evidence of a fundamental function for the Ldb1-Lhx1-Ssbp transcriptional complexes in embryonic development.
PXD045221	37795374	Proteomics and network pharmacology of Ganshu Nuodan capsules in the prevention of alcoholic liver disease. 	Proteomics and network pharmacology of Ganshu Nuodan capsules in the prevention of alcoholic liver disease	alcohol liver disease, component identification, molecular docking, network pharmacology	Introduction: Ganshu Nuodan is a liver-protecting dietary supplement composed of Ganoderma lucidum (G. lucidum) spore powder, Pueraria montana (Lour.) Merr. (P. montana), Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge (S. miltiorrhiza) and Astragalus membranaceus (Fisch.) Bunge. (A. membranaceus). However, its pharmacodynamic material basis and mechanism of action remain unknown. Methods: A mouse model of acute alcohol liver disease (ALD) induced by intragastric administration of 50% alcohol was used to evaluate the hepatoprotective effect of Ganshu Nuodan. The chemical constituents of Ganshu Nuodan were comprehensively identified by UPLC-QTOF/MS, and then its pharmacodynamic material basis and potential mechanism of action were explored by proteomics and network pharmacology. Results: Ganshu Nuodan could ameliorate acute ALD, which is mainly manifested in the significant reduction of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) in serum and malondialdehyde (MDA) content in liver and the remarkably increase of glutathione (GSH) content and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in liver. Totally 76 chemical constituents were identified from Ganshu Nuodan by UPLC-QTOF/MS, including 21 quinones, 18 flavonoids, 11 organic acids, 7 terpenoids, 5 ketones, 4 sterols, 3 coumarins and 7 others. Three key signaling pathways were identified via proteomics studies, namely Arachidonic acid metabolism, Retinol metabolism, and HIF-1 signaling pathway respectively. Combined with network pharmacology and molecular docking, six key targets were subsequently obtained, including Ephx2, Lta4h, Map2k1, Stat3, Mtor and Dgat1. Finally, these six key targets and their related components were verified by molecular docking, which could explain the material basis of the hepatoprotective effect of Ganshu Nuodan. Conclusion: Ganshu Nuodan can protect acute alcohol-induced liver injury in mice by inhibiting oxidative stress, lipid accumulation and apoptosis. Our study provides a scientific basis for the hepatoprotective effect of Ganshu Nuodan in acute ALD mice and supports its traditional application.
PXD044815	37795451	Insight of novel biomarkers for papillary thyroid carcinoma through multiomics. 	Insight of novel biomarkers for papillary thyroid carcinoma through multi-omics	cancer proteomics	Introduction: The overdiagnosing of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) in China necessitates the development of an evidence-based diagnosis and prognosis strategy in line with precision medicine. A landscape of PTC in Chinese cohorts is needed to provide comprehensiveness. Methods: 6 paired PTC samples were employed for whole-exome sequencing, RNA sequencing, and data-dependent acquisition mass spectrum analysis. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interactions networks were used to screen for hub genes. Moreover, we verified the hub genes' diagnostic and prognostic potential using online databases. Logistic regression was employed to construct a diagnostic model, and we evaluated its efficacy and specificity based on TCGA-THCA and GEO datasets. Results: The basic multiomics landscape of PTC among local patients were drawn. The similarities and differences were compared between the Chinese cohort and TCGA-THCA cohorts, including the identification of PNPLA5 as a driver gene in addition to BRAF mutation. Besides, we found 572 differentially expressed genes and 79 differentially expressed proteins. Through integrative analysis, we identified 17 hub genes for prognosis and diagnosis of PTC. Four of these genes, ABR, AHNAK2, GPX1, and TPO, were used to construct a diagnostic model with high accuracy, explicitly targeting PTC (AUC=0.969/0.959 in training/test sets). Discussion: Multiomics analysis of the Chinese cohort demonstrated significant distinctions compared to TCGA-THCA cohorts, highlighting the unique genetic characteristics of Chinese individuals with PTC. The novel biomarkers, holding potential for diagnosis and prognosis of PTC, were identified. Furthermore, these biomarkers provide a valuable tool for precise medicine, especially for immunotherapeutic or nanomedicine based cancer therapy.
PXD040383	37797745	The Role of Serine/Threonine-Specific Protein Kinases in Cyanobacteria - SpkB Is Involved in Acclimation to Fluctuating Conditions in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	The role of serine/threonine-specific protein kinases in cyanobacteria - SpkB is involved in acclimation to fluctuating conditions in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803	Cyanobacteria, SpkB, Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, adaptation, kinases, phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation via serine/threonine protein kinases (Spk) is a widespread mechanism to adjust cellular processes toward changing environmental conditions. To study their role(s) in cyanobacteria, we investigated a collection of 11 completely segregated spk mutants among the 12 annotated Spks in the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Screening of the mutant collection revealed that especially the mutant defective in SpkB encoded by slr1697 showed clear deviations regarding carbon metabolism, that is, reduced growth rates at low CO2 or in the presence of glucose, and different glycogen accumulation patterns compared to WT. Alterations in the proteome of DeltaspkB indicated changes of the cell surface but also metabolic functions. A phospho-proteome analysis revealed the absence of any phosphorylation in two proteins, while decreased phosphorylation of the carboxysome-associated protein CcmM and increased phosphorylation of the allophycocyanin alpha subunit ApcA was detected in DeltaspkB. Furthermore, the regulatory PII protein appeared less phosphorylated in the mutant compared to WT, which was verified in Western blot experiments, indicating a clearly delayed PII phosphorylation in cells shifted from nitrate-containing to nitrate-free medium. Our results indicate that SpkB is an important regulator in Synechocystis that is involved in phosphorylation of the PII protein and additional proteins.
PXD044906	37798264	Acetylation-dependent coupling between G6PD activity and apoptotic signaling. 	Site-specifically acetylated G6PD	lysine acetylation, metabolism, pentose phosphate pathway	Lysine acetylation has been discovered in thousands of non-histone human proteins, including most metabolic enzymes. Deciphering the functions of acetylation is key to understanding how metabolic cues mediate metabolic enzyme regulation and cellular signaling. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the rate-limiting enzyme in the pentose phosphate pathway, is acetylated on multiple lysine residues. Using site-specifically acetylated G6PD, we show that acetylation can activate (AcK89) and inhibit (AcK403) G6PD. Acetylation-dependent inactivation is explained by structural studies showing distortion of the dimeric structure and active site of G6PD. We provide evidence for acetylation-dependent K95/97 ubiquitylation of G6PD and Y503 phosphorylation, as well as interaction with p53 and induction of early apoptotic events. Notably, we found that the acetylation of a single lysine residue coordinates diverse acetylation-dependent processes. Our data provide an example of the complex roles of acetylation as a posttranslational modification that orchestrates the regulation of enzymatic activity, posttranslational modifications, and apoptotic signaling.
PXD043247	37798768	The Golgi stacking protein GRASP55 is targeted by the natural compound prodigiosin. 	The Golgi stacking protein GRASP55 is targeted by the natural compound prodigiosin	Autophagy, Golgi apparatus, Natural Compound, Prodigiosin, Target Identification	BACKGROUND: The bacterial secondary metabolite prodigiosin has been shown to exert anticancer, antimalarial, antibacterial and immunomodulatory properties. With regard to cancer, it has been reported to affect cancer cells but not non-malignant cells, rendering prodigiosin a promising lead compound for anticancer drug discovery. However, a direct protein target has not yet been experimentally identified. METHODS: We used mass spectrometry-based thermal proteome profiling in order to identify target proteins of prodigiosin. For target validation, we employed a genetic knockout approach and electron microscopy. RESULTS: We identified the Golgi stacking protein GRASP55 as target protein of prodigiosin. We show that prodigiosin treatment severely affects Golgi morphology and functionality, and that prodigiosin-dependent cytotoxicity is partially reduced in GRASP55 knockout cells. We also found that prodigiosin treatment results in decreased cathepsin activity and overall blocks autophagic flux, whereas co-localization of the autophagosomal marker LC3 and the lysosomal marker LAMP1 is clearly promoted. Finally, we observed that autophagosomes accumulate at GRASP55-positive structures, pointing towards an involvement of an altered Golgi function in the autophagy-inhibitory effect of this natural compound. CONCLUSION: Taken together, we propose that prodigiosin affects autophagy and Golgi apparatus integrity in an interlinked mode of action involving the regulation of organelle alkalization and the Golgi stacking protein GRASP55. Video Abstract.
PXD045313	37799542	Caffeine causes cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 and increases of ubiquitinated proteins, ATP and mitochondrial membrane potential in renal cells. 	Caffeine causes cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 and increases of ubiquitinated proteins, ATP and mitochondrial membrane potential in renal cells	CKD, Coffee, Energy, Kidney, Metabolism, Nephrolithiasis, Renoprotection	Caffeine is a well-known purine alkaloid commonly found in coffee. Several lines of previous and recent evidence have shown that habitual coffee drinking is associated with lower risks for chronic kidney disease (CKD) and nephrolithiasis. However, cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying its renoprotective effects remain largely unknown due to a lack of knowledge on cellular adaptive response to caffeine. This study investigated cellular adaptive response of renal tubular cells to caffeine at the protein level. Cellular proteome of MDCK cells treated with caffeine at a physiologic concentration (100 muM) for 24 h was analyzed comparing with that of untreated cells by label-free quantitative proteomics. From a total of 936 proteins identified, comparative analysis revealed significant changes in levels of 148 proteins induced by caffeine. These significantly altered proteins were involved mainly in proteasome, ribosome, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) (or Krebs) cycle, DNA replication, spliceosome, biosynthesis of amino acid, carbon metabolism, nucleocytoplasmic transport, cell cycle, cytoplasmic translation, translation initiation, and mRNA metabolic process. Functional validation by various assays confirmed that caffeine decreased cell population at G2/M, increased cell population at G0/G1, increased level of ubiquitinated proteins, increased intracellular ATP and enhanced mitochondrial membrane potential in MDCK cells. These data may help unravelling molecular mechanisms underlying the biological effects of caffeine on renal tubular cells at cellular and protein levels.
PXD043069	37801475	Structure-based design of nanobodies that inhibit seeding of Alzheimer's patient-extracted tau fibrils. 	PRM and DDA Data for IR5 WIW and WIW Nanobodies	Amyloid, Blood-Brain Barrier, Fibril, Inhibitor, Nanobodies, Neurodegeneration, Prion-like Spreading, Protein Structure, Seeding, Structural Biology, Synthetic Antibodies, Tau, Zipper Interface	Despite much effort, antibody therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown limited efficacy. Challenges to the rational design of effective antibodies include the difficulty of achieving specific affinity to critical targets, poor expression, and antibody aggregation caused by buried charges and unstructured loops. To overcome these challenges, we grafted previously determined sequences of fibril-capping amyloid inhibitors onto a camel heavy chain antibody scaffold. These sequences were designed to cap fibrils of tau, known to form the neurofibrillary tangles of AD, thereby preventing fibril elongation. The nanobodies grafted with capping inhibitors blocked tau aggregation in biosensor cells seeded with postmortem brain extracts from AD and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients. The tau capping nanobody inhibitors also blocked seeding by recombinant tau oligomers. Another challenge to the design of effective antibodies is their poor blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration. In this study, we also designed a bispecific nanobody composed of a nanobody that targets a receptor on the BBB and a tau capping nanobody inhibitor, conjoined by a flexible linker. We provide evidence that the bispecific nanobody improved BBB penetration over the tau capping inhibitor alone after intravenous administration in mice. Our results suggest that the design of synthetic antibodies that target sequences that drive protein aggregation may be a promising approach to inhibit the prion-like seeding of tau and other proteins involved in AD and related proteinopathies.
PXD044386	37802037	Complement factor D targeting protects endotheliopathy in organoid and monkey models of COVID-19. 	Longitudinal serum proteome analysis in COVID-19	SARS-CoV-2, complement, endotheliopathy	COVID-19 is linked to endotheliopathy and coagulopathy, which can result in multi-organ failure. The mechanisms causing endothelial damage due to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) remain elusive. Here, we developed an infection-competent human vascular organoid from pluripotent stem cells for modeling endotheliopathy. Longitudinal serum proteome analysis identified aberrant complement signature in critically ill patients driven by the amplification cycle regulated by complement factor B and D (CFD). This deviant complement pattern initiates endothelial damage, neutrophil activation, and thrombosis specific to organoid-derived human blood vessels, as verified through intravital imaging. We examined a new long-acting, pH-sensitive (acid-switched) antibody targeting CFD. In both human and macaque COVID-19 models, this long-acting anti-CFD monoclonal antibody mitigated abnormal complement activation, protected endothelial cells, and curtailed the innate immune response post-viral exposure. Collectively, our findings suggest that the complement alternative pathway exacerbates endothelial injury and inflammation. This underscores the potential of CFD-targeted therapeutics against severe viral-induced inflammathrombotic outcomes.
PXD036026	37802072	Human model of primary carnitine deficiency cardiomyopathy reveals ferroptosis as a novel mechanism. 	Human model of primary carnitine deficiency cardiomyopathy reveals ferroptosis as novel disease mechanism	OCTN2, Primary carnitine deficiency, TMT-labelling, hiPSC-CM	Primary carnitine deficiency (PCD) is an autosomal recessive monogenic disorder caused by mutations in SLC22A5. This gene encodes for OCTN2, which transports the essential metabolite carnitine into the cell. PCD patients suffer from muscular weakness and dilated cardiomyopathy. Two OCTN2-defective human induced pluripotent stem cell lines were generated, carrying a full OCTN2 knockout and a homozygous OCTN2 (N32S) loss-of-function mutation. OCTN2-defective genotypes showed lower force development and resting length in engineered heart tissue format compared with isogenic control. Force was sensitive to fatty acid-based media and associated with lipid accumulation, mitochondrial alteration, higher glucose uptake, and metabolic remodeling, replicating findings in animal models. The concordant results of OCTN2 (N32S) and -knockout emphasizes the relevance of OCTN2 for these findings. Importantly, genome-wide analysis and pharmacological inhibitor experiments identified ferroptosis, an iron- and lipid-dependent cell death pathway associated with fibroblast activation as a novel PCD cardiomyopathy disease mechanism.
PXD030604	37802156	Hypoxia induced deregulation of sphingolipids in colon cancer is a prognostic marker for patient outcome. 	Complexome profiling to study consequences of membrane protein complexes in cells with knock down of ceramide synthase 4 and 5 in HCT-116 and Caco-2 cells.	complexome profiling	Sphingolipids are important for the physicochemical properties of cellular membranes and deregulated in tumors. In human colon cancer tissue ceramide synthase (CerS) 4 and CerS5 are reduced which correlates with a reduced survival probability of late-stage colon cancer patients. Both enzymes are reduced after hypoxia in advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) cells (HCT-116, SW620) but not in non-metastatic CRC cells (SW480, Caco-2). Downregulation of CerS4 or CerS5 in advanced CRC cells enhanced tumor formation in nude mice and organoid growth in vitro. This was accompanied by an enhanced proliferation rate and metabolic changes leading to a shift towards the Warburg effect. In contrast, CerS4 or CerS5 depletion in Caco-2 cells reduced tumor growth in vivo. Lipidomic and proteomic analysis of membrane fractions revealed significant changes in tumor-promoting cellular pathways and cellular transporters. This study identifies CerS4 and CerS5 as prognostic markers for advanced colon cancer patients and provides a comprehensive overview about the associated cellular metabolic changes. We propose that the expression level of CerS4 and CerS5 in colon tumors could serve as a basis for decision-making for personalized treatment of advanced colon cancer patients. Trial registration: The study was accredited by the study board of the Deutsche Krebsgesellschaft (Registration No: St-D203, 2017/06/30, retrospectively registered).
PXD035937	37802982	Distinct and targetable role of calcium-sensing receptor in leukaemia. 	Proteome analysis of AML cells upon CaSR-KO	AML, TMT	Haematopoietic stem cells (HSC) reside in the bone marrow microenvironment (BMM), where they respond to extracellular calcium [eCa(2+)] via the G-protein coupled calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR). Here we show that a calcium gradient exists in this BMM, and that [eCa(2+)] and response to [eCa(2+)] differ between leukaemias. CaSR influences the location of MLL-AF9(+) acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) cells within this niche and differentially impacts MLL-AF9(+) AML versus BCR-ABL1(+) leukaemias. Deficiency of CaSR reduces AML leukaemic stem cells (LSC) 6.5-fold. CaSR interacts with filamin A, a crosslinker of actin filaments, affects stemness-associated factors and modulates pERK, beta-catenin and c-MYC signaling and intracellular levels of [Ca(2+)] in MLL-AF9(+) AML cells. Combination treatment of cytarabine plus CaSR-inhibition in various models may be superior to cytarabine alone. Our studies suggest CaSR to be a differential and targetable factor in leukaemia progression influencing self-renewal of AML LSC via [eCa(2+)] cues from the BMM.
PXD038471	37803004	Chronic treatment with D2-antagonist haloperidol leads to inhibitory/excitatory imbalance in striatal D1-neurons. 	Chronic haloperidol treatment leads to an imbalance of synaptic excitation and inhibition of D1-MSN neurons pointing to a slow remodelling process	Haloperidol, MSN	Striatal dysfunction has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, a disorder characterized by positive symptoms such as hallucinations and delusions. Haloperidol is a typical antipsychotic medication used in the treatment of schizophrenia that is known to antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, which are abundantly expressed in the striatum. However, haloperidol's delayed therapeutic effect also suggests a mechanism of action that may go beyond the acute blocking of D2 receptors. Here, we performed proteomic analysis of striatum brain tissue and found more than 400 proteins significantly altered after 30 days of chronic haloperidol treatment in mice, namely proteins involved in glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission. Cell-type specific electrophysiological recordings further revealed that haloperidol not only reduces the excitability of striatal medium spiny neurons expressing dopamine D2 receptors (D2-MSNs) but also affects D1-MSNs by increasing the ratio of inhibitory/excitatory synaptic transmission (I/E ratio) specifically onto D1-MSNs but not D2-MSNs. Therefore, we propose the slow remodeling of D1-MSNs as a mechanism mediating the delayed therapeutic effect of haloperidol over striatum circuits. Understanding how haloperidol exactly contributes to treating schizophrenia symptoms may help to improve therapeutic outcomes and elucidate the molecular underpinnings of this disorder.
PXD035832	37803016	Decreased liver B vitamin-related enzymes as a metabolic hallmark of cancer cachexia. 	Proteome analysis of muscle, liver, and blood samples associated with cancer cachexia	Q Exactive mass spectrometer, TMT, protein acetylation, protein malonylation, protein succinylation	Cancer cachexia is a complex metabolic disorder accounting for ~20% of cancer-related deaths, yet its metabolic landscape remains unexplored. Here, we report a decrease in B vitamin-related liver enzymes as a hallmark of systemic metabolic changes occurring in cancer cachexia. Metabolomics of multiple mouse models highlights cachexia-associated reductions of niacin, vitamin B6, and a glycine-related subset of one-carbon (C1) metabolites in the liver. Integration of proteomics and metabolomics reveals that liver enzymes related to niacin, vitamin B6, and glycine-related C1 enzymes dependent on B vitamins decrease linearly with their associated metabolites, likely reflecting stoichiometric cofactor-enzyme interactions. The decrease of B vitamin-related enzymes is also found to depend on protein abundance and cofactor subtype. These metabolic/proteomic changes and decreased protein malonylation, another cachexia feature identified by protein post-translational modification analysis, are reflected in blood samples from mouse models and gastric cancer patients with cachexia, underscoring the clinical relevance of our findings.
PXD044730	37803026	Human cellular model systems of beta-thalassemia enable in-depth analysis of disease phenotype. 	Protemic characterisation of the beta-thalassemia erythroid cells from immortalised cell lines	beta-thalassemia erythroid cells	beta-thalassemia is a prevalent genetic disorder causing severe anemia due to defective erythropoiesis, with few treatment options. Studying the underlying molecular defects is impeded by paucity of suitable patient material. In this study we create human disease cellular model systems for beta-thalassemia by gene editing the erythroid line BEL-A, which accurately recapitulate the phenotype of patient erythroid cells. We also develop a high throughput compatible fluorometric-based assay for evaluating severity of disease phenotype and utilize the assay to demonstrate that the lines respond appropriately to verified reagents. We next use the lines to perform extensive analysis of the altered molecular mechanisms in beta-thalassemia erythroid cells, revealing upregulation of a wide range of biological pathways and processes along with potential novel targets for therapeutic investigation. Overall, the lines provide a sustainable supply of disease cells as research tools for identifying therapeutic targets and as screening platforms for new drugs and reagents.
PXD039945	37804223	Label-Free Quantitative Thermal Proteome Profiling Reveals Target Transcription Factors with Activities Modulated by MC3R Signaling. 	Effects of pro-opiomelanocortin neuropeptides on immunological pathways mediated by the melanocortin 3 receptor revealed by label-free quantitative thermal proteome profiling	MC3R, POMC, TPP, label-free quantitation	Thermal proteome profiling with label-free quantitation using ion-mobility-enhanced LC-MS offers versatile data sets, providing information on protein differential expression, thermal stability, and the activities of transcription factors. We developed a multidimensional data analysis workflow for label-free quantitative thermal proteome profiling (TPP) experiments that incorporates the aspects of gene set enrichment analysis, differential protein expression analysis, and inference of transcription factor activities from LC-MS data. We applied it to study the signaling processes downstream of melanocortin 3 receptor (MC3R) activation by endogenous agonists derived from the proopiomelanocortin prohormone: ACTH, alpha-MSH, and gamma-MSH. The obtained information was used to map signaling pathways downstream of MC3R and to deduce transcription factors responsible for cellular response to ligand treatment. Using our workflow, we identified differentially expressed proteins and investigated their thermal stability. We found in total 298 proteins with altered thermal stability, resulting from MC3R activation. Out of these, several proteins were transcription factors, indicating them as being downstream target regulators that take part in the MC3R signaling cascade. We found transcription factors CCAR2, DDX21, HMGB2, SRSF7, and TET2 to have altered thermal stability. These apparent target transcription factors within the MC3R signaling cascade play important roles in immune responses. Additionally, we inferred the activities of the transcription factors identified in our data set. This was done with Bayesian statistics using the differential expression data we obtained with label-free quantitative LC-MS. The inferred transcription factor activities were validated in our bioinformatic pipeline by the phosphorylated peptide abundances that we observed, highlighting the importance of post-translational modifications in transcription factor regulation. Our multidimensional data analysis workflow allows for a comprehensive characterization of the signaling processes downstream of MC3R activation. It provides insights into protein differential expression, thermal stability, and activities of key transcription factors. All proteomic data generated in this study are publicly available at DOI: 10.6019/PXD039945.
PXD044625	37805600	Chemoproteomic capture of RNA binding activity in living cells. 	Chemoproteomic capture of RNA binding activity in living cells	Chemical Biology, Chemoproteomics, RNA interactome, RNA-binding protein	Proteomic methods for RNA interactome capture (RIC) rely principally on crosslinking native or labeled cellular RNA to enrich and investigate RNA-binding protein (RBP) composition and function in cells. The ability to measure RBP activity at individual binding sites by RIC, however, has been more challenging due to the heterogenous nature of peptide adducts derived from the RNA-protein crosslinked site. Here, we present an orthogonal strategy that utilizes clickable electrophilic purines to directly quantify protein-RNA interactions on proteins through photoaffinity competition with 4-thiouridine (4SU)-labeled RNA in cells. Our photo-activatable-competition and chemoproteomic enrichment (PACCE) method facilitated detection of >5500 cysteine sites across ~3000 proteins displaying RNA-sensitive alterations in probe binding. Importantly, PACCE enabled functional profiling of canonical RNA-binding domains as well as discovery of moonlighting RNA binding activity in the human proteome. Collectively, we present a chemoproteomic platform for global quantification of protein-RNA binding activity in living cells.
PXD036656	37806286	Escherichia coli killing by epidemiologically successful sublineages of Shigella sonnei is mediated by colicins. 	Escherichia coli killing by Shigella sonnei is mediated by colicins found in epidemiologically successful sublineages	BPER, Colicins, Shigella	BACKGROUND: Shigella sp. are enteric pathogens which causes >125 million cases of shigellosis annually. S. sonnei accounts for about a quarter of those cases and is increasingly prevalent in industrialising nations. Being an enteric pathogen, S. sonnei benefits from outcompeting gut commensals such as Escherichia coli to establish itself and cause disease. There are numerous mechanisms that bacterial pathogens use to outcompete its rivals including molecules called colicins. A Type 6 Secretion System (T6SS) was recently described as contributing to E. coli killing in S. sonnei. METHODS: We used Bulk Phenotyping of Epidemiological Replicates (BPER) which combined bacterial Genome Wide Association Studies (bGWAS) and high throughput phenotyping on a collection of S. sonnei surveillance isolates to identify the genetic features associated with E. coli killing and explore their relationship with epidemiological behaviour. We further explored the presence of colicins and T6SS components in the isolates using genomics, laboratory experimentation, and proteomics. FINDINGS: Our bGWAS analysis returned known and novel colicin and colicin related genes as significantly associated with E. coli killing. In silico analyses identified key colicin clusters responsible for the killing phenotype associated with epidemiologically successful sub-lineages. The killing phenotype was not associated with the presence of a T6SS. Laboratory analyses confirmed the presence of the key colicin clusters and that killing was contact-independent. INTERPRETATION: Colicins are responsible for E. coli killing by S. sonnei, not a T6SS. This phenotype contributes to shaping the observed epidemiology of S. sonnei and may contribute to its increasing prevalence globally. BPER is an epidemiologically relevant approach to phenotypic testing that enables the rapid identification of genetic drivers of phenotypic changes, and assessment of their relevance to epidemiology in natural settings. FUNDING: Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council Doctoral Training Partnership studentship, Wellcome Trust, Medical Research Council (UK), French National Research Agency.
PXD045496	37806341	Experience-Induced Remodeling of the Hippocampal Post-synaptic Proteome and Phosphoproteome. 	Experience-induced remodeling of the hippocampal post-synaptic proteome and phosphoproteome	phosphoproteomics	The postsynaptic density (PSD) of excitatory synapses contains a highly organized protein network with thousands of proteins and is a key node in the regulation of synaptic plasticity. To gain new mechanistic insight into experience-induced changes in the PSD, we examined the global dynamics of the hippocampal PSD proteome and phosphoproteome in mice following four different types of experience. Mice were trained using an inhibitory avoidance (IA) task and hippocampal PSD fractions were isolated from individual mice to investigate molecular mechanisms underlying experience-dependent remodeling of synapses. We developed a new strategy to identify and quantify the relatively low level of site-specific phosphorylation of PSD proteome from the hippocampus, by using a modified iTRAQ-based TiSH protocol. In the PSD, we identified 3938 proteins and 2761 phosphoproteins in the sequential strategy covering a total of 4968 unique protein groups (at least two peptides including a unique peptide). On the phosphoproteins, we identified a total of 6188 unambiguous phosphosites (75%<site-localization probability). Strikingly, of the significantly IA-regulated phosphoproteins, a large fraction of these displayed an overall decrease in phosphorylation level. Bioinformatic analysis of proteins and phosphoproteins that were regulated by IA were annotated for involvement in the regulation of glutamate receptor functionality, RHO GTPase cycle, and synaptic plasticity. We also identified synaptic kinases, phosphatases, and their respective phosphosites regulated by IA training or immediate shock. Furthermore, we found that AMPA receptor surface expression was regulated by Mg2+/Mn2+ dependent protein phosphatase 1H (Ppm1h). Together, these results unravel the dynamic remodeling of the PSD upon IA learning or immediate shock and serve as a resource for elucidating the synaptic proteome dynamics induced by experience-dependent plasticity.
PXD039297	37807017	Systematic compositional analysis of exosomal extracellular vesicles produced by cells undergoing apoptosis, necroptosis and ferroptosis. 	Systematic comparative analysis of extracellular vesicles following apoptosis, necroptosis and ferroptosis	apoptosis, cell death, extracellular vesicles, ferroptosis, necroptosis	Formation of extracellular vesicles (EVs) has emerged as a novel paradigm in cell-to-cell communication in health and disease. EVs are notably produced during cell death but it had remained unclear whether different modalities of regulated cell death (RCD) influence the biogenesis and composition of EVs. To this end, we performed a comparative analysis of steady-state (ssEVs) and cell death-associated EVs (cdEVs) following TNF-induced necroptosis (necEVs), anti-Fas-induced apoptosis (apoEVs), and ML162-induced ferroptosis (ferEVs) using the same cell line. For each RCD condition, we determined the biophysical and biochemical characteristics of the cell death-associated EVs (cdEVs), the protein cargo, and the presence of methylated ribosomal RNA. We found that the global protein content of all cdEVs was increased compared to steady-state EVs. Qualitatively, the isolated exosomal ssEVs and cdEVs, contained a largely overlapping protein cargo including some quantitative differences in particular proteins. All cdEVs were enriched for proteins involved in RNA splicing and nuclear export, and showed distinctive rRNA methylation patterns compared to ssEVs. Interestingly, necEVs and apoEVs, but strikingly not ferEVs, showed enrichment of proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis. Altogether, our work documents quantitative and qualitative differences between ssEVs and cdEVs.
PXD044994	37808318	Hepatitis C virus alters the morphology and function of peroxisomes. 	Hepatitis C virus alters the morphology and function of peroxisomes.	APEX2, CRISPR-Cas9, DBN3a, HCV genotype, Hepatitis C virus, JFH1, ROS, peroxisome, proximity biotinylation	Despite the introduction of effective treatments for hepatitis C in clinics, issues remain regarding the liver disease induced by chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. HCV is known to disturb the metabolism of infected cells, especially lipid metabolism and redox balance, but the mechanisms leading to HCV-induced pathogenesis are still poorly understood. In an APEX2-based proximity biotinylation screen, we identified ACBD5, a peroxisome membrane protein, as located in the vicinity of HCV replication complexes. Confocal microscopy confirmed the relocation of peroxisomes near HCV replication complexes and indicated that their morphology and number are altered in approximately 30% of infected Huh-7 cells. Peroxisomes are small versatile organelles involved among other functions in lipid metabolism and ROS regulation. To determine their importance in the HCV life cycle, we generated Huh-7 cells devoid of peroxisomes by inactivating the PEX5 and PEX3 genes using CRISPR/Cas9 and found that the absence of peroxisomes had no impact on replication kinetics or infectious titers of HCV strains JFH1 and DBN3a. The impact of HCV on peroxisomal functions was assessed using sub-genomic replicons. An increase of ROS was measured in peroxisomes of replicon-containing cells, correlated with a significant decrease of catalase activity with the DBN3a strain. In contrast, HCV replication had little to no impact on cytoplasmic and mitochondrial ROS, suggesting that the redox balance of peroxisomes is specifically impaired in cells replicating HCV. Our study provides evidence that peroxisome function and morphology are altered in HCV-infected cells.
PXD038256	37809632	Shiga toxin 2 A-subunit induces mitochondrial damage, mitophagy and apoptosis via the interaction of Tom20 in Caco-2 cells. 	Shiga toxin 2a induces mitochondrial damage, mitophagy and apoptosis via the interaction of Tom20 in Caco-2 cells	Shiga toxin	Shiga toxin type 2 (Stx2) is the primary virulence factor produced by Shiga toxin-producing enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (STEC), which causes epidemic outbreaks of gastrointestinal sickness and potentially fatal sequela hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Most studies on Stx2-induced apoptosis have been performed with holotoxins, but the mechanism of how the A and B subunits of Stx2 cause apoptosis in cells is not clear. Here, we found that Stx2 A-subunit (Stx2A) induced mitochondrial damage, PINK1/Parkin-dependent mitophagy and apoptosis in Caco-2 cells. PINK1/Parkin-dependent mitophagy caused by Stx2A reduced apoptosis by decreasing the accumulation of reactive oxidative species (ROS). Mechanistically, Stx2A interacts with Tom20 on mitochondria to initiate the translocation of Bax to mitochondria, leading to mitochondrial damage and apoptosis. Overall, these data suggested that Stx2A induces mitochondrial damage, mitophagy and apoptosis via the interaction of Tom20 in Caco-2 cells and that mitophagy caused by Stx2A ameliorates apoptosis by eliminating damaged mitochondria. These findings provide evidence for the potential use of Tom20 inhibition as an anti-Shiga toxin therapy.
PXD035212	37810667	Identification of PP1c-PPP1R12A Substrates Using Kinase-Catalyzed Biotinylation to Identify Phosphatase Substrates. 	Identification of PP1c-PPP1R12A Substrates Using K-BIPS (Kinase-Catalyzed Biotinylation to Identify Phosphatase Substrates)	PP1, PPP1R12A, Protein Phosphatase 1, chemoproteomics, substrate identification	Protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 12A (PPP1R12A) interacts with the catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1c) to form the myosin phosphatase complex. In addition to a well-documented role in muscle contraction, the PP1c-PPP1R12A complex is associated with cytoskeleton organization, cell migration and adhesion, and insulin signaling. Despite the variety of biological functions, only a few substrates of the PP1c-PPP1R12A complex are characterized, which limit a full understanding of PP1c-PPP1R12A activities in muscle contraction and cytoskeleton regulation. Here, the chemoproteomics method Kinase-catalyzed Biotinylation to Identify Phosphatase Substrates (K-BIPS) was used to identify substrates of the PP1c-PPP1R12A complex in L6 skeletal muscle cells. K-BIPS enriched 136 candidate substrates with 14 high confidence hits. One high confidence hit, AKT1 kinase, was validated as a novel PP1c-PPP1R12A substrate. Given the previously documented role of AKT1 in PPP1R12A phosphorylation and cytoskeleton organization, the data suggest that PP1c-PPP1R12A regulates its own phosphatase activity through an AKT1-dependent feedback mechanism to influence cytoskeletal arrangement in muscle cells.
PXD043660	37811788	Deep Proteomic Compound Profiling with the Orbitrap Ascend Tribrid Mass Spectrometer Using Tandem Mass Tags and Real-Time Search. 	Deep Proteomic Compound Profiling with the Orbitrap Ascend Tribrid Mass Spectrometer Using Tandem Mass Tags and Real-Time Search	TMT, drug discovery	Tandem mass tags (TMT) and tribrid mass spectrometers are a powerful combination for high-throughput proteomics with high quantitative accuracy. Increasingly, this technology is being used to map the effects of drugs on the proteome. However, the depth of proteomic profiling is still limited by sensitivity and speed. The new Orbitrap Ascend mass spectrometer was designed to address these limitations with a combination of hardware and software improvements. We evaluated the performance of the Ascend in multiple contexts including deep proteomic profiling. We found that the Ascend exhibited increased sensitivity, yielding higher signal-to-noise ratios than the Orbitrap Eclipse with shorter injection times. As a result, higher numbers of peptides and proteins were identified and quantified, especially with low sample input. TMT measurements had significantly improved signal-to-noise ratios, improving quantitative precision. In a fractionated 16plex sample that profiled proteomic differences across four human cell lines, the Ascend was able to quantify hundreds more proteins than the Eclipse, many of them low-abundant proteins, and the Ascend was able to quantify >8000 proteins in 30% less instrument time. We used the Ascend to analyze 8881 proteins in HCT116 cancer cells treated with covalent sulfolane/sulfolene inhibitors of peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase NIMA-interacting 1 (PIN1), a phosphorylation-specific peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase implicated in several cancers. We characterized these PIN1 inhibitors' effects on the proteome and identified discrepancies among the different compounds, which will facilitate a better understanding of the structure-activity relationship of this class of compounds. The Ascend was able to quantify statistically significant, potentially therapeutically relevant changes in proteins that the Eclipse could not detect.
PXD040933	37811856	Effects of lysine deacetylase inhibitor treatment on LPS responses of alveolar-like macrophages. 	Effects of lysine deacetylase inhibitor treatment on LPS responses of alveolar-like macrophages	DIA proteomics, KDAC inhibition, LPS activation, alveolar-like macrophages	Macrophages are key immune cells that can adapt their metabolic phenotype in response to different stimuli. Lysine deacetylases (KDAC) are important enzymes regulating inflammatory gene expression and KDAC inhibitors have been shown to exert anti-inflammatory effects in models of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). We hypothesized that these anti-inflammatory effects may be associated with metabolic changes in macrophages. To validate this hypothesis, we used an unbiased and a targeted proteomic approach to investigate metabolic enzymes as well as LC- and GC-MS to quantify metabolites in combination with the measurement of functional parameters in primary murine alveolar-like macrophages after lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced activation in the presence or absence of KDAC inhibition. We found that KDAC inhibition resulted in reduced production of inflammatory mediators such as TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. However, only minor changes in macrophage metabolism were observed, as only one of the KDAC inhibitors slightly increased mitochondrial respiration while no changes in metabolite levels were seen. However, KDAC inhibition specifically enhanced expression of proteins involved in ubiquitination, which may be a driver of the anti-inflammatory effects of KDAC inhibitors. Our data illustrate that a multi-omics approach provides novel insights into how macrophages interact with cues from their environment. More detailed studies investigating ubiquitination as a potential driver of KDAC inhibition will help developing novel anti-inflammatory drugs for difficult to treat diseases such as COPD.
PXD026088	37813838	A cyclin-dependent kinase-mediated phosphorylation switch of disordered protein condensation. 	Cell cycle phosphorylation dynamics in vivo reveals switch-like control of intrinsic disorder	PRM, cell cycle, phosphoproteomics, single cell	Cell cycle transitions result from global changes in protein phosphorylation states triggered by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs). To understand how this complexity produces an ordered and rapid cellular reorganisation, we generated a high-resolution map of changing phosphosites throughout unperturbed early cell cycles in single Xenopus embryos, derived the emergent principles through systems biology analysis, and tested them by biophysical modelling and biochemical experiments. We found that most dynamic phosphosites share two key characteristics: they occur on highly disordered proteins that localise to membraneless organelles, and are CDK targets. Furthermore, CDK-mediated multisite phosphorylation can switch homotypic interactions of such proteins between favourable and inhibitory modes for biomolecular condensate formation. These results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms and kinetics of mitotic cellular reorganisation.
PXD037811	37815507	Investigation of Inter- and Intra-Day Variability of Tear Fluid Regarding Flow Rate, Protein Concentration as well as Protein Composition. 	Investigation of inter- and intra-day variability of tear fluid regarding flow rate, protein concentration as well as protein composition	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), Schirmer test, protein concentration, tear flow rate, tear fluid, tear volume	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to present the determination of inter- and intra-day variations in tear flow rate, and tear fluid protein concentration, as well as protein composition regarding their impact for future biomarker studies. Methods: Tear fluid was collected noninvasively from 18 healthy subjects by performing Schirmer tests at 4 different time points repetitive in a period of 2 days. The tear flow rate on the Schirmer test strips was measured. Proteins were extracted from strips and quantified using amino acid analysis. Protein composition was analyzed by the strips data-independent (DIA) based mass spectrometry. To exclude any impairments to health, volunteers underwent a detailed neurological as well as an ophthalmological examination. Results: Whether tear fluid was collected from oculus sinister or oculus dexter did not affect the tear flow rate (P =~ 0.63) or protein concentration (P =~ 0.97) of individual subjects. Moreover, protein concentration was independent from the tear volume, so that a change in volume may only influence the total protein amount. When the examination days were compared, investigation of tear flow rate (P =~ 0.001) and protein concentration (P =~ 0.0003) indicated significant differences. Further, mass spectrometric analysis of tear fluid revealed 11 differentially regulated proteins when comparing both examination days. Conclusions: Our findings provide evidence of inter-day variation in tear flow rate, tear proteome concentration, and composition in healthy subjects, suggesting that inter-day variation needs to be taken into consideration in biomarker research of tear fluid. Identified proteins were assigned to functions in the immune response, oxidative and reducing processes, as well as mannose metabolism.
PXD038431	37815922	Assessing the dynamics and macromolecular interactions of the intrinsically disordered protein YY1. 	Assessing the dynamics and macromolecular interactions of the intrinsically disordered protein YY1	DNA binding, FOXP2, YY1, intrinsic disorder, protein-protein interactions	YY1 is a ubiquitously expressed, intrinsically disordered transcription factor involved in neural development. The oligomeric state of YY1 varies depending on the environment. These structural changes may alter its DNA binding ability and hence its transcriptional activity. Just as YY1's oligomeric state can impact its role in transcription, so does its interaction with other proteins such as FOXP2. The aim of this work is to study the structure and dynamics of YY1 so as to determine the influence of oligomerisation and associations with FOXP2 on its DNA binding mechanism. The results confirm that YY1 is primarily a disordered protein, but it does consist of certain specific structured regions. We observed that YY1 quaternary structure is a heterogenous mixture of oligomers, the overall size of which is dependent on ionic strength. Both YY1 oligomerisation and its dynamic behaviour are further subject to changes upon DNA binding, whereby increases in DNA concentration result in a decrease in the size of YY1 oligomers. YY1 and the FOXP2 forkhead domain were found to interact with each other both in isolation and in the presence of YY1-specific DNA. The heterogeneous, dynamic multimerisation of YY1 identified in this work is, therefore likely to be important for its ability to make heterologous associations with other proteins such as FOXP2. The interactions that YY1 makes with itself, FOXP2 and DNA form part of an intricate mechanism of transcriptional regulation by YY1, which is vital for appropriate neural development.
PXD044895	37816088	TRIM55 promotes noncanonical NF-kappaB signaling and B cell-mediated immune responses by coordinating p100 ubiquitination and processing. 	TRIM55 promotes noncanonical NF-kB signaling and B-cell-mediated immune responses by coordinating p100 ubiquitination and processing	TRIM55, noncanonical NF-kB, p100 ubiquitination	The ubiquitination-dependent processing of NF-kappaB2 (also known as p100) is a critical step in the activation of the noncanonical NF-kappaB pathway. We investigated the molecular mechanisms regulating this process and showed that TRIM55 was the E3 ubiquitin ligase that mediated the ubiquitination of p100 and coordinated its processing. TRIM55 deficiency impaired noncanonical NF-kappaB activation and B cell function. Mice with a B cell-specific Trim55 deficiency exhibited reduced germinal center formation and antibody production. These mice showed less severe symptoms than those of control mice upon the induction of a systemic lupus-like disease, suggesting B cell-intrinsic functions of TRIM55 in humoral immune responses and autoimmunity. Mechanistically, the ubiquitination of p100 mediated by TRIM55 was crucial for p100 processing by VCP, an ATPase that mediates ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation by the proteasome. Furthermore, we found that TRIM55 facilitated the interaction between TRIM21 and VCP as well as TRIM21-mediated K63-ubiquitination of VCP, both of which were indispensable for the formation of the VCP-UFD1-NPL4 complex and p100 processing. Together, our results reveal a mechanism by which TRIM55 fine-tunes p100 processing and regulates B cell-dependent immune responses in vivo, highlighting TRIM55 as a potential therapeutic target for lupus-like disease.
PXD040261	37816260	Extracellular vesicle biomarkers for complement dysfunction in schizophrenia. 	Extracellular Vesicle Biomarkers for Complement System Dysfunction in Schizophrenia	Extracellular vesicles, biomarkers, machine learning, schizophrenia	Schizophrenia, a complex neuropsychiatric disorder, frequently experiences a high rate of misdiagnosis due to subjective symptom assessment. Consequently, there is an urgent need for innovative and objective diagnostic tools. In this study, we utilized cutting-edge extracellular vesicles' (EVs) proteome profiling and XGBoost-based machine learning to develop new markers and personalized discrimination scores (PDS) for schizophrenia diagnosis and prediction of treatment response. We analyzed plasma and plasma-derived EVs from 343 participants, including 100 individuals with chronic schizophrenia, 34 first-episode and drug-naive (FEDN) patients, 35 individuals with bipolar disorder (BD), 25 individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD), and 149 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Our innovative approach uncovered EVs-based complement changes in patients, specific to their disease-type and status. The EV-based biomarkers outperformed their plasma counterparts, accurately distinguishing schizophrenia individuals from healthy controls with an area under curve (AUC) of 0.895, 83.5% accuracy, 85.3% sensitivity, and 82.0% specificity. Moreover, they effectively differentiated schizophrenia from BD and MDD, with AUCs of 0.966 and 0.893, respectively. The PDS provided a personalized diagnostic index for schizophrenia and exhibited a significant association with patients' antipsychotic treatment response in the follow-up cohort. Overall, our study represents a significant advancement in the field of neuropsychiatric disorders, demonstrating the potential of EV-based biomarkers in guiding personalized diagnosis and treatment of schizophrenia.
PXD025081	37817180	Quantitative analysis of acetylation in peste des petits ruminants virus-infected Vero cells. 	Quantitative analysis of acetylation in Vero cells infected with Peste des petits ruminants virus	post-translational modificationlysine acetylation protein-protein interactionPeste des petits ruminants virus	BACKGROUND: Peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) is a highly contagious pathogen that strongly influences the productivity of small ruminants worldwide. Acetylation is an important post-translational modification involved in regulation of multiple biological functions. However, the extent and function of acetylation in host cells during PPRV infection remains unknown. METHODS: Dimethylation-labeling-based quantitative proteomic analysis of the acetylome of PPRV-infected Vero cells was performed. RESULTS: In total, 1068 proteins with 2641 modification sites were detected in response to PPRV infection, of which 304 differentially acetylated proteins (DAcPs) with 410 acetylated sites were identified (fold change < 0.83 or > 1.2 and P < 0.05), including 109 up-regulated and 195 down-regulated proteins. Gene Ontology (GO) classification indicated that DAcPs were mostly located in the cytoplasm (43%) and participated in cellular and metabolic processes related to binding and catalytic activity. Functional enrichment indicated that the DAcPs were involved in the minichromosome maintenance complex, unfolded protein binding, helicase activity. Only protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum pathway was enriched. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network of the identified proteins further indicated that a various chaperone and ribosome processes were modulated by acetylation. CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study on acetylome in PPRV-infected host cell. Our findings establish an important baseline for future study on the roles of acetylation in the host response to PPRV replication and provide novel insights for understanding the molecular pathological mechanism of PPRV infection.
PXD038083	37818043	Multiomics and bioinformatics identify differentially expressed effectors in the brain of Toxoplasma gondii infected masked palm civet. 	Proteomic study of Toxoplasma gondii infection in cibeaver	civet cat, toxoplasma gondii	Introduction: The masked palm civet (Paguma larvata) serves as a reservoir in transmitting pathogens, such as Toxoplasma gondii, to humans. However, the pathogenesis of T. gondii infection in masked palm civets has not been explored. We studied the molecular changes in the brain tissue of masked palm civets chronically infected with T. gondii ME49. Methods: The differentially expressed proteins in the brain tissue were investigated using iTRAQ and bioinformatics. Results: A total of 268 differential proteins were identified, of which 111 were upregulated and 157 were downregulated. KEGG analysis identified pathways including PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, proteoglycans in cancer, carbon metabolism, T-cell receptor signaling pathway. Combing transcriptomic and proteomics data, we identified 24 genes that were differentially expressed on both mRNA and protein levels. The top four upregulated proteins were REEP3, REEP4, TEP1, and EEPD1, which was confirmed by western blot and immunohistochemistry. KEGG analysis of these 24 genes identified signaling cascades that were associated with small cell lung cancer, breast cancer, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathways among others. To understand the mechanism of the observed alteration, we conducted immune infiltration analysis using TIMER databases which identified immune cells that are associated with the upregulation of these proteins. Protein network analysis identified 44 proteins that were in close relation to all four proteins. These proteins were significantly enriched in immunoregulation and cancer pathways including PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, Notch signaling pathway, chemokine signaling pathway, cell cycle, breast cancer, and prostate cancer. Bioinformatics utilizing two cancer databases (TCGA and GEPIA) revealed that the four genes were upregulated in many cancer types including glioblastoma (GBM). In addition, higher expression of REEP3 and EEPD1 was associated with better prognosis, while higher expression of REEP4 and TEP1 was associated with poor prognosis in GBM patients. Discussion: We identified the differentially expressed genes in the brain of T. gondii infected masked palm civets. These genes were associated with various cellular signaling pathways including those that are immune- and cancer-related.
PXD041180	37818352	Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analysis reveals the metabolic programming of GM-CSF- and M-CSF- differentiated mouse macrophages. 	Proteomic  analysis of GM-CSF and M-CSF polarized bone marrow derived macrophages	immunology, macrophage	Macrophages play a critical role in the inflammatory response and tumor development. Macrophages are primarily divided into pro-inflammatory M1-like and anti-inflammatory M2-like macrophages based on their activation status and functions. In vitro macrophage models could be derived from mouse bone marrow cells stimulated with two types of differentiation factors: GM-CSF (GM-BMDMs) and M-CSF (M-BMDMs), to represent M1- and M2-like macrophages, respectively. Since macrophage differentiation requires coordinated metabolic reprogramming and transcriptional rewiring in order to fulfill their distinct roles, we combined both transcriptome and metabolome analysis, coupled with experimental validation, to gain insight into the metabolic status of GM- and M-BMDMs. The data revealed higher levels of the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle), oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), fatty acid oxidation (FAO), and urea and ornithine production from arginine in GM-BMDMs, and a preference for glycolysis, fatty acid storage, bile acid metabolism, and citrulline and nitric oxide (NO) production from arginine in M-BMDMs. Correlation analysis with the proteomic data showed high consistency in the mRNA and protein levels of metabolic genes. Similar results were also obtained when compared to RNA-seq data of human monocyte derived macrophages from the GEO database. Furthermore, canonical macrophage functions such as inflammatory response and phagocytosis were tightly associated with the representative metabolic pathways. In the current study, we identified the core metabolites, metabolic genes, and functional terms of the two distinct mouse macrophage populations. We also distinguished the metabolic influences of the differentiation factors GM-CSF and M-CSF, and wish to provide valuable information for in vitro macrophage studies.
PXD041315	37818754	Cronobacter sakazakii infection implicates multifaceted neuro-immune regulatory pathways of Caenorhabditis elegans. 	Cronobacter sakazakii infection implicates multifaceted neuro-immune regulatory pathways of Caenorhabditis elegans	Apoptosis., Caenorhabditis elegans, Cronobacter sakazakii, Protein aggregation, Western blotting, mTOR pathway	The neural pathways of Caenorhabditis elegans play a crucial role in regulating host immunity and inflammation during pathogenic infections. To understand the major neuro-immune signaling pathways, this study aimed to identify the key regulatory proteins in the host C. elegans during C. sakazakii infection. We used high-throughput label-free quantitative proteomics and identified 69 differentially expressed proteins. KEGG analysis revealed that C. sakazakii elicited host immune signaling cascades primarily including mTOR signaling, axon regeneration, metabolic pathways (let-363 and acox-1.4), calcium signaling (mlck-1), and longevity regulating pathways (ddl-2), respectively. The abrogation in functional loss of mTOR-associated players deciphered that C. sakazakii infection negatively regulated the lifespan of mutant worms (akt-1, let-363 and dlk-1), including physiological aberrations, such as reduced pharyngeal pumping and egg production. Additionally, the candidate pathway proteins were validated by transcriptional profiling of their corresponding genes. Furthermore, immunoblotting showed the downregulation of mTORC2/SGK-1 during the later hours of pathogen exposure. Overall, our findings profoundly provide an understanding of the specificity of proteome imbalance in affecting neuro-immune regulations during C. sakazakii infection.
PXD044938	37819951	Mitochondrion of the Trypanosoma brucei long slender bloodstream form is capable of ATP production by substrate-level phosphorylation. 	Trypanosoma brucei bloodstream form mitochondrion is capable of ATP production by substrate-level phoshorylation		The long slender bloodstream form Trypanosoma brucei maintains its essential mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) through the proton-pumping activity of the FoF1-ATP synthase operating in the reverse mode. The ATP that drives this hydrolytic reaction has long been thought to be generated by glycolysis and imported from the cytosol via an ATP/ADP carrier (AAC). Indeed, we demonstrate that AAC is the only carrier that can import ATP into the mitochondrial matrix to power the hydrolytic activity of the FoF1-ATP synthase. However, contrary to expectations, the deletion of AAC has no effect on parasite growth, virulence or levels of DeltaPsim. This suggests that ATP is produced by substrate-level phosphorylation pathways in the mitochondrion. Therefore, we knocked out the succinyl-CoA synthetase (SCS) gene, a key mitochondrial enzyme that produces ATP through substrate-level phosphorylation in this parasite. Its absence resulted in changes to the metabolic landscape of the parasite, lowered virulence, and reduced mitochondrial ATP content. Strikingly, these SCS mutant parasites become more dependent on AAC as demonstrated by a 25-fold increase in their sensitivity to the AAC inhibitor, carboxyatractyloside. Since the parasites were able to adapt to the loss of SCS in culture, we also analyzed the more immediate phenotypes that manifest when SCS expression is rapidly suppressed by RNAi. Importantly, when performed under nutrient-limited conditions mimicking various host environments, SCS depletion strongly affected parasite growth and levels of DeltaPsim. In totality, the data establish that the long slender bloodstream form mitochondrion is capable of generating ATP via substrate-level phosphorylation pathways.
PXD044422	37820732	The structural mechanism of dimeric DONSON in replicative helicase activation. 	Xenopus laevis Cdc45-FLAG interactions on chromatin during DNA replication	Cdc45, DNA replication, Xenopus laevis, replisome	The MCM motor of the replicative helicase is loaded onto origin DNA as an inactive double hexamer before replication initiation. Recruitment of activators GINS and Cdc45 upon S-phase transition promotes the assembly of two active CMG helicases. Although work with yeast established the mechanism for origin activation, how CMG is formed in higher eukaryotes is poorly understood. Metazoan Downstream neighbor of Son (DONSON) has recently been shown to deliver GINS to MCM during CMG assembly. What impact this has on the MCM double hexamer is unknown. Here, we used cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) on proteins isolated from replicating Xenopus egg extracts to identify a double CMG complex bridged by a DONSON dimer. We find that tethering elements mediating complex formation are essential for replication. DONSON reconfigures the MCM motors in the double CMG, and primordial dwarfism patients' mutations disrupting DONSON dimerization affect GINS and MCM engagement in human cells and DNA synthesis in Xenopus egg extracts.
PXD043220	37820923	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Reprogramming in Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Metastasis. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic reprogramming in epithelial ovarian cancer metastasis	Aurora Kinase, Epithelial ovarian cancer, Rock1, metastasis, phosphoproteomics	Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is a high-risk cancer presenting with heterogeneous tumors. The high incidence of EOC metastasis from primary tumors to nearby tissues and organs is a major driver of EOC lethality. We used cellular models of spheroid formation and readherence to investigate cellular signaling dynamics in each step toward EOC metastasis. In our system, adherent cells model primary tumors, spheroid formation represents the initiation of metastatic spread, and readherent spheroid cells represent secondary tumors. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses show that spheroid cells are hypoxic and show markers for cell cycle arrest. Aurora kinase B abundance and downstream substrate phosphorylation are significantly reduced in spheroids and readherent cells, explaining their cell cycle arrest phenotype. The proteome of readherent cells is most similar to spheroids, yet greater changes in the phosphoproteome show that spheroid cells stimulate Rho-associated kinase 1 (ROCK1)-mediated signaling, which controls cytoskeletal organization. In spheroids, we found significant phosphorylation of ROCK1 substrates that were reduced in both adherent and readherent cells. Application of the ROCK1-specific inhibitor Y-27632 to spheroids increased the rate of readherence and altered spheroid density. The data suggest ROCK1 inhibition increases EOC metastatic potential. We identified novel pathways controlled by Aurora kinase B and ROCK1 as major drivers of metastatic behavior in EOC cells. Our data show that phosphoproteomic reprogramming precedes proteomic changes that characterize spheroid readherence in EOC metastasis.
PXD046518	37820924	Chemical Proteomic Approach for In-Depth Glycosylation Profiling of Plasma Carcinoembryonic Antigen in Cancer Patients. 	Glycosylation detection of carcinoembryonic antigen in human plasma	Carcinoembryonic antigen, Glycosylation, Intact glycopeptide, Plasma	Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) of human plasma is a biomarker of many cancer diseases, and its N-glycosylation accounts for 60% of molecular mass. It is highly desirable to characterize its glycoforms for providing additional dimension of features to increase its performance in prognosis and diagnosis of cancers. However, to systematically characterize its site-specific glycosylation is challenging because of its low abundance. Here, we developed a highly sensitive strategy for in-depth glycosylation profiling of plasma CEA through chemical proteomics combined with multienzymatic digestion. A trifunctional probe was utilized to generate covalent bond of plasma CEA and its antibody upon UV irradiation. As low as 1 ng/ml CEA in plasma could be captured and digested with trypsin and chymotrypsin for intact glycopeptide characterization. Twenty six of 28 potential N-glycosylation sites were well identified, which were the most comprehensive N-glycosylation site characterization of CEA on intact glycopeptide level as far as we known. Importantly, this strategy was applied to the glycosylation analysis of plasma CEA in cancer patients. Differential site-specific glycoforms of plasma CEA were observed in patients with colorectal cancers (CRCs) and lung cancer. The distributions of site-specific glycoforms were different as the progression of CRC, and most site-specific glycoforms were overexpressed in stage II of CRC. Overall, we established a highly sensitive chemical proteomic method to profile site-specific glycosylation of plasma CEA, which should generally applicable to other well-established cancer glycoprotein biomarkers for improving their cancer diagnosis and monitoring performance.
PXD035928	37821439	USP39 promotes hepatocellular carcinogenesis through regulating alternative splicing in cooperation with SRSF6/HNRNPC. 	The spliceosome factor USP39 promotes hepatocellular carcinoma malignancy through regulating mRNA splicing	HNRNPC, KANK2, SRSF6, alternative splicing, constitutive splicing	Abnormal alternative splicing (AS) caused by alterations in spliceosomal factors is implicated in cancers. Standard models posit that splice site selection is mainly determined by early spliceosomal U1 and U2 snRNPs. Whether and how other mid/late-acting spliceosome components such as USP39 modulate tumorigenic splice site choice remains largely elusive. We observed that hepatocyte-specific overexpression of USP39 promoted hepatocarcinogenesis and potently regulated splice site selection in transgenic mice. In human liver cancer cells, USP39 promoted tumor proliferation in a spliceosome-dependent manner. USP39 depletion deregulated hundreds of AS events, including the oncogenic splice-switching of KANK2. Mechanistically, we developed a novel RBP-motif enrichment analysis and found that USP39 modulated exon inclusion/exclusion by interacting with SRSF6/HNRNPC in both humans and mice. Our data represented a paradigm for the control of splice site selection by mid/late-acting spliceosome proteins and their interacting RBPs. USP39 and possibly other mid/late-acting spliceosome proteins may represent potential prognostic biomarkers and targets for cancer therapy.
PXD045119	37821447	SARS-CoV-2 infection of human lung epithelial cells induces TMPRSS-mediated acute fibrin deposition. 	SARS-CoV-2 infection of human lung epithelial cells induces TMPRSS-mediated acute fibrin deposition	Bronchoalveolar lavage, NHBE cells, SARS-CoV-2 infection, fibrin deposit	Severe COVID-associated lung injury is a major confounding factor of hospitalizations and death with no effective treatments. Here, we describe a non-classical fibrin clotting mechanism mediated by SARS-CoV-2 infected primary lung but not other susceptible epithelial cells. This infection-induced fibrin formation is observed in all variants of SARS-CoV-2 infections, and requires thrombin but is independent of tissue factor and other classical plasma coagulation factors. While prothrombin and fibrinogen levels are elevated in acute COVID BALF samples, fibrin clotting occurs only with the presence of viral infected but not uninfected lung epithelial cells. We suggest a viral-induced coagulation mechanism, in which prothrombin is activated by infection-induced transmembrane serine proteases, such as ST14 and TMPRSS11D, on NHBE cells. Our finding reveals the inefficiency of current plasma targeted anticoagulation therapy and suggests the need to develop a viral-induced ARDS animal model for treating respiratory airways with thrombin inhibitors.
PXD038343	37821657	Chemoresistant fibroblasts dictate neoadjuvant chemotherapeutic response of head and neck cancer via TGFalpha-EGFR paracrine signaling. 	proteomics analysis data from three different sCAFs and rCAFs	CAFs	Conventional chemotherapy targets malignant cells without evaluating counter protection from the tumor microenvironment that often causes treatment failure. Herein, we establish chemoresistant fibroblasts (rCAFs) as regulators of neoadjuvant chemotherapeutic (NACT) response in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Clinically, high expression of CAF-related gene signature correlates with worse prognosis and chemotherapeutic response in multiple cancers, while the population of CAFs in the residual tumors of chemoresistant HNSCC patients remains unchanged after NACT treatment, compared to chemosensitive patients. Using a murine cancer model or patient-derived organoid, and primary CAFs isolated from chemo-sensitive (sCAFs) or -resistant patients, we show that rCAFs, but not sCAFs, are resistant to chemotherapy-induced apoptosis while reducing HNSCC cell chemosensitivity via paracrine signals. Combined multi-omics and biochemical analyses indicate an elevated PI3K/AKT/p65 driven cell survival and cytokine production in rCAFs, while rCAF-secreted TGFalpha promotes cancer cell chemoresistance by activating EGFR/Src/STAT3 survival signaling axis. Treatment with anti-EGFR cetuximab restores the chemosensitivity of tumors derived from co-injection of cancer cells and rCAFs in vivo, while the serum level of TGFalpha determines NACT response in HNSCC patients. Overall, our findings uncover a novel insight whereby the crosstalk between tumor cell and rCAF determines chemotherapeutic response and prognosis in cancer patients.
PXD040018	37821702	Apoptotic stress causes mtDNA release during senescence and drives the SASP. 	Interactome of activated BAX in Senescent Cells.	bax, cellular senescence, mitochondria, mtDNA	Senescent cells drive age-related tissue dysfunction partially through the induction of a chronic senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP)(1). Mitochondria are major regulators of the SASP; however, the underlying mechanisms have not been elucidated(2). Mitochondria are often essential for apoptosis, a cell fate distinct from cellular senescence. During apoptosis, widespread mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (MOMP) commits a cell to die(3). Here we find that MOMP occurring in a subset of mitochondria is a feature of cellular senescence. This process, called minority MOMP (miMOMP), requires BAX and BAK macropores enabling the release of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) into the cytosol. Cytosolic mtDNA in turn activates the cGAS-STING pathway, a major regulator of the SASP. We find that inhibition of MOMP in vivo decreases inflammatory markers and improves healthspan in aged mice. Our results reveal that apoptosis and senescence are regulated by similar mitochondria-dependent mechanisms and that sublethal mitochondrial apoptotic stress is a major driver of the SASP. We provide proof-of-concept that inhibition of miMOMP-induced inflammation may be a therapeutic route to improve healthspan.
PXD041670	37821839	Similar proteome expression profiles of the aggregated lymphoid nodules area and Peyer's patches in Bactrian camel. 	ITRAQ-based proteomic analysis reveals high similarity of  protein expression in ALNA with ileum PPs of Bactrian  camel (Camelus bactrianus)	ALNA, Bactrian camel, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: The presence of Aggregated Lymphoid Nodules Area (ALNA) is a notable anatomical characteristic observed in the abomasum of Bactrian camels. This area is comprised of two separate regions, namely the Reticular Mucosal Folds Region (RMFR) and the Longitudinal Mucosal Folds Region (LMFR). The histological properties of ALNA exhibit significant similarities to those of Peyer's patches (PPs) found in the gastrointestinal system. The functional characteristics of ALNA were examined in relation to mucosal immunity in the gastrointestinal system. RESULTS: We used iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis on twelve Bactrian camels to measure the amount of proteins expressed in ALNA. In the experiment, we sampled the RMFR and LMFR separately from the ALNA and compared their proteomic quantification results with samples from the PPs. A total of 1253 proteins were identified, among which 39 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were found between RMFR and PPs, 33 DEPs were found between LMFR and PPs, and 22 DEPs were found between LMFR and RMFR. The proteins FLNA, MYH11, and HSPB1 were chosen for validation using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and the observed expression profiles were found to be in agreement with the results obtained from the iTRAQ study. The InnateDB database was utilized to get data pertaining to immune-associated proteins in ALNA. It was observed that a significant proportion, specifically 76.6%, of these proteins were found to be associated with the same orthogroups as human immune-related genes. These proteins are acknowledged to be associated with a diverse range of functions, encompassing the uptake, processing and presentation of antigens, activation of lymphocytes, the signaling pathways of T-cell and B-cell receptors, and the control of actin polymerization. CONCLUSIONS: The experimental results suggest that there are parallels in the immune-related proteins found in ALNA and PPs. Although there are variations in the structures of LMFR and RMFR, the proteins produced in both structures exhibit a high degree of similarity and perform comparable functions in the context of mucosal immune responses.
PXD016843	37822814	SWATH-MS analysis of plasma proteins among Indian HIV-1 infected patients. 	Characterization of plasma proteins of  HIV/AIDS patients underfirst line anti-retroviral therapy	AIDS, ART, HIV, Human  Plasma Proteins, SWATH-MS	The identification and characterization of plasma proteins in drug resistant and drug sensitive in HIV-1 infected/AIDS patients were carried out using the SWATH-MS protocol. In total, 204 proteins were identified and quantified, 57 proteins were differentially expressed, out of which 25 proteins were down regulated and 32 proteins were up regulated in drug resistant patients. Six proteins such as complement C4-A, immunoglobulin heavy variable 1-2, carboxylic ester hydrolase, fibulin-1, immunoglobulin lambda constant7, secreted phosphoprotein 24 were differentially expressed in individuals with drug resistant HIV as compared to individuals with drug sensitive HIV. Gene ontology of 57 differentially expressed proteins was analysed and documented.
PXD045341	37823515	Phosphate starvation regulates cellulose synthesis to modify root growth. 	Phosphate starvation regulates cellulose synthesis	Phosphate, Plants, cellulose	In the model plant Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the absence of the essential macro-nutrient phosphate reduces primary root growth through decreased cell division and elongation, requiring alterations to the polysaccharide-rich cell wall surrounding the cells. Despite its importance, the regulation of cell wall synthesis in response to low phosphate levels is not well understood. In this study, we show that plants increase cellulose synthesis in roots under limiting phosphate conditions, which leads to changes in the thickness and structure of the cell wall. These changes contribute to the reduced growth of primary roots in low phosphate conditions. Furthermore, we found that the cellulose synthase complex activity at the plasma membrane increases during phosphate deficiency. Moreover, we show that this increase in the activity of the cellulose synthase complex is likely due to alterations in the phosphorylation status of cellulose synthases in low-phosphate conditions. Specifically, phosphorylation of CELLULOSE SYNTHASE 1 (CESA1) at the S688 site decreases in low-phosphate conditions. Phosphomimic versions of CESA1 with an S688E mutation showed significantly reduced cellulose induction and primary root length changes in low-phosphate conditions. Protein structure modelling suggests that the phosphorylation status of S688 in CESA1 could play a role in stabilizing and activating the cellulose synthase complex. This mechanistic understanding of root growth regulation under limiting phosphate conditions provides potential strategies for changing root responses to soil phosphate content.
PXD038731	37823600	ZNF432 stimulates PARylation and inhibits DNA resection to balance PARPi sensitivity and resistance. 	ZNF432 stimulates PARylation and inhibits DNA resection to balance PARPi sensitivity and resistance	DNA repair, PARP inhibitors, PARP1, ZNF432, homologous recombination	Zinc finger (ZNF) motifs are some of the most frequently occurring domains in the human genome. It was only recently that ZNF proteins emerged as key regulators of genome integrity in mammalian cells. In this study, we report a new role for the Kruppel-type ZNF-containing protein ZNF432 as a novel poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) reader that regulates the DNA damage response. We show that ZNF432 is recruited to DNA lesions via DNA- and PAR-dependent mechanisms. Remarkably, ZNF432 stimulates PARP-1 activity in vitro and in cellulo. Knockdown of ZNF432 inhibits phospho-DNA-PKcs and increases RAD51 foci formation following irradiation. Moreover, purified ZNF432 preferentially binds single-stranded DNA and impairs EXO1-mediated DNA resection. Consequently, the loss of ZNF432 in a cellular system leads to resistance to PARP inhibitors while its overexpression results in sensitivity. Taken together, our results support the emerging concept that ZNF-containing proteins can modulate PARylation, which can be embodied by the pivotal role of ZNF432 to finely balance the outcome of PARPi response by regulating homologous recombination.
PXD039321	37823603	BOLA3 and NFU1 link mitoribosome iron-sulfur cluster assembly to multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome. 	Fe-S clusters-binding proteins in mitoribosome	Fe-S cluster, Mitoribosome	The human mitochondrial ribosome contains three [2Fe-2S] clusters whose assembly pathway, role, and implications for mitochondrial and metabolic diseases are unknown. Here, structure-function correlation studies show that the clusters play a structural role during mitoribosome assembly. To uncover the assembly pathway, we have examined the effect of silencing the expression of Fe-S cluster biosynthetic and delivery factors on mitoribosome stability. We find that the mitoribosome receives its [2Fe-2S] clusters from the GLRX5-BOLA3 node. Additionally, the assembly of the small subunit depends on the mitoribosome biogenesis factor METTL17, recently reported containing a [4Fe-4S] cluster, which we propose is inserted via the ISCA1-NFU1 node. Consistently, fibroblasts from subjects suffering from 'multiple mitochondrial dysfunction' syndrome due to mutations in BOLA3 or NFU1 display previously unrecognized attenuation of mitochondrial protein synthesis that contributes to their cellular and pathophysiological phenotypes. Finally, we report that, in addition to their structural role, one of the mitoribosomal [2Fe-2S] clusters and the [4Fe-4S] cluster in mitoribosome assembly factor METTL17 sense changes in the redox environment, thus providing a way to regulate organellar protein synthesis accordingly.
PXD043496	37824822	G-CSF reshapes the cytosolic PCNA scaffold and modulates glycolysis in neutrophils. 	G-CSF reshapes the cytosolic PCNA scaffold and modulates glycolysis in neutrophils	G-CSF, PCNA, glycolysis, neutrophil, survival	Cytosolic proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is involved in neutrophil survival and function, where it acts as a scaffold and associates with proteins involved in apoptosis, NADPH oxidase activation, cytoskeletal dynamics and metabolism. While the PCNA interactome has been characterized in neutrophils under homeostatic conditions, less is known about neutrophil PCNA in pathophysiological contexts. G-CSF is a cytokine produced in response to inflammatory stimuli, that regulates many aspects of neutrophil biology. Here we used isolated normal density neutrophils from G-CSF-treated haemopoietic stem cell donors (GD) as a model to understand the role of PCNA during inflammation. Proteomic analysis of the neutrophil cytosol revealed significant differences between GD and healthy donors (HD). PCNA was one of the most upregulated proteins in GD and the PCNA interactome was significantly different in GD compared to HD. Importantly, while PCNA associated with almost all enzymes involved in glycolysis in HD, these associations were decreased in GD. Functionally, neutrophils from GD had a significant increase in glycolysis compared to HD. Using p21 competitor peptides, we showed that PCNA negatively regulates neutrophil glycolysis in HD, but had no effect on GD neutrophils. These data demonstrate that G-CSF alters the PCNA scaffold, affecting interactions with key glycolytic enzymes and thus regulates glycolysis, the main energy pathway utilized by neutrophils. By this selective control of glycolysis, PCNA can organize neutrophils functionality in parallel with other PCNA mechanisms of prolonged survival. PCNA may therefore be instrumental in the reprogramming that neutrophils undergo in inflammatory or tumoral settings.
PXD034545	37828075	Kidney tubular epithelial cells control interstitial fibroblast fate by releasing TNFAIP8-encapsulated exosomes. 	TNFAIP8-containing exosomes from injured tubular epithelial cells inhibit fibroblast apoptosis in fibrotic kidney	Exosomes, TNFAIP8, apoptosis, fibroblasts, renal fibrosis, tubular cells	Kidney fibrosis, characterized by the activation and expansion of the matrix-producing fibroblasts, is the common outcome of chronic kidney disease (CKD). While fibroblast proliferation is well studied in CKD, little is known about the regulation and mechanism of fibroblast depletion. Here, we show that exosomes derived from stressed/injured tubules play a pivotal role in dictating fibroblast apoptosis and fate. When human kidney tubular cells (HK-2) were stimulated with TGF-beta1, they produced and released increased amounts of exosomes (TGFbeta-Exo), which prevented renal interstitial fibroblasts from apoptosis. In vivo, injections of TGFbeta-Exo promoted renal fibroblast survival, whereas blockade of exosome secretion accelerated fibroblast apoptosis in obstructive nephropathy. Proteomics profiling identified the tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced protein 8 (TNFAIP8) as a key component enriched in TGFbeta-Exo. TNFAIP8 was induced in renal tubular epithelium and enriched in the exosomes from fibrotic kidneys. Knockdown of TNFAIP8 in tubular cells abolished the ability of TGFbeta-Exo to prevent fibroblast apoptosis. In vivo, gain- or loss- of TNFAIP8 prevented or aggravated renal fibroblast apoptosis after obstructive injury. Mechanistically, exosomal-TNFAIP8 promoted p53 ubiquitination leading to its degradation, thereby inhibiting fibroblasts apoptosis and inducing their proliferation. Collectively, these results indicate that tubule-derived exosomes play a critical role in controlling the size of fibroblast population during renal fibrogenesis through shuttling TNFAIP8 to block p53 signaling. Strategies to target exosomes may be effective strategies for the therapy of fibrotic CKD.
PXD037949	37829206	Heterogeneity of perivascular astrocyte endfeet depending on vascular regions in the mouse brain. 	Mouse brain perivascular astrocyte endfoot proteome	Mouse brain blood vessels, perivascular astrocyte endfeet	Astrocytes interact with not only synapses but also brain blood vessels through perivascular astrocyte endfeet (PV-AEF) to form the neurovascular unit (NVU). However, PV-AEF components have not been fully identified. Here, we biochemically isolated blood vessels from mouse brain homogenates and purified PV-AEF. The purified PV-AEF were observed in different sizes, similar to PV-AEF on brain blood vessels. Mass spectrometry analysis identified 9,762 proteins in the purified PV-AEF, including cell adhesion molecules, nectin-2delta, Kirrel2, and podoplanin. Immunofluorescence microscopic analysis revealed that nectin-2delta and podoplanin were concentrated mainly in arteries/arterioles and veins/venules of the mouse brain, whereas Kirrel2 was mainly in arteries/arterioles. Nectin-2alpha/delta, Kirrel2, and podoplanin were preferentially observed in large sizes of the purified PV-AEF. Furthermore, Kirrel2 potentially has cell adhesion activity of cultured astrocytes. Collectively, these results indicate that PV-AEF have heterogeneity in sizes and molecular components, implying different roles of PV-AEF in NVU function depending on vascular regions.
PXD042815	37830485	Global Acetylomics of Campylobacter jejuni Shows Lysine Acetylation Regulates CadF Adhesin Processing and Human Fibronectin Binding. 	Global acetylomics of Campylobacter jejuni shows lysine acetylation regulates CadF adhesin processing and fibronectin binding during in vivo-like growth	Bacterial virulence, lysine acetylation, membrane proteins, metabolism, post-translational modifications	Lysine acetylation (KAc) is a reversible post-translational modification (PTM) that can alter protein structure and function; however, specific roles for KAc are largely undefined in bacteria. Acetyl-lysine immunoprecipitation and LC-MS/MS identified 5567 acetylated lysines on 1026 proteins from the gastrointestinal pathogen Campylobacter jejuni (~63% of the predicted proteome). KAc was identified on proteins from all subcellular locations, including the outer membrane (OM) and extracellular proteins. Label-based LC-MS/MS identified proteins and KAc sites during growth in 0.1% sodium deoxycholate (DOC, a component of gut bile salts). 3410 acetylated peptides were quantified, and 784 (from 409 proteins) were differentially abundant in DOC growth. Changes in KAc involved multiple pathways, suggesting a dynamic role for this PTM in bile resistance. As observed elsewhere, we show KAc is primarily nonenzymatically mediated via acetyl-phosphate; however, the deacetylase CobB also contributes to a global elevation of this modification in DOC. We observed several multiply acetylated OM proteins and altered DOC abundance of acetylated peptides in the fibronectin (Fn)-binding adhesin CadF. We show KAc reduces CadF Fn binding and prevalence of lower mass variants. This study provides the first system-wide lysine acetylome of C. jejuni and contributes to our understanding of KAc as an emerging PTM in bacteria.
PXD045473	37831068	RNF185 control of COL3A1 expression limits prostate cancer migration and metastatic potential. 	RNF185 control of COL3A1 expression limits prostate cancer migration and metastatic potential.	RNF185, collagen, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), metastasis, prostate adenocarcinoma, ubiquitin ligase	RNF185 is a RING finger domain-containing ubiquitin ligase implicated in ER-associated degradation. Prostate tumor patient data analysis revealed a negative correlation between RNF185 expression and prostate cancer progression and metastasis. Likewise, several prostate cancer cell lines exhibited greater migration and invasion capabilities in culture upon RNF185 depletion. Subcutaneous inoculation of mouse prostate cancer MPC3 cells stably expressing shRNA against RNF185 into mice resulted in larger tumors and more frequent lung metastases. RNA-sequencing and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis identified wound healing and cellular movement among the most significant pathways upregulated in RNF185-depleted, compared to control prostate cancer cells. Gene Set Enrichment Analyses performed in samples from patients harboring low RNF185 expression and in RNF185-depleted lines confirmed the deregulation of genes implicated in EMT. Among those, COL3A1 was identified as the primary mediator of RNF185's ability to impact migration phenotypes. Correspondingly, enhanced migration and metastasis of RNF185 KD prostate cancer cells were attenuated upon co-inhibition of COL3A1. Our results identify RNF185 as a gatekeeper of prostate cancer metastasis, partly via its control of COL3A1 availability. Implications: RNF185 identified as novel marker for prostate cancer metastasis, through control of COL3A1 expression.
PXD038167	37831098	ADAR1 links R-loop homeostasis to ATR activation in replication stress response. 	Identification of ADAR1 associated proteins	ADAR1, Genome stability, Immunopurification	Unscheduled R-loops are a major source of replication stress and DNA damage. R-loop-induced replication defects are sensed and suppressed by ATR kinase, whereas it is not known whether R-loop itself is actively involved in ATR activation and, if so, how this is achieved. Here, we report that the nuclear form of RNA-editing enzyme ADAR1 promotes ATR activation and resolves genome-wide R-loops, a process that requires its double-stranded RNA-binding domains. Mechanistically, ADAR1 interacts with TOPBP1 and facilitates its loading on perturbed replication forks by enhancing the association of TOPBP1 with RAD9 of the 9-1-1 complex. When replication is inhibited, DNA-RNA hybrid competes with TOPBP1 for ADAR1 binding to promote the translocation of ADAR1 from damaged fork to accumulate at R-loop region. There, ADAR1 recruits RNA helicases DHX9 and DDX21 to unwind R-loops, simultaneously allowing TOPBP1 to stimulate ATR more efficiently. Collectively, we propose that the tempo-spatially regulated assembly of ADAR1-nucleated protein complexes link R-loop clearance and ATR activation, while R-loops crosstalk with blocked replication forks by transposing ADAR1 to finetune ATR activity and safeguard the genome.
PXD045096	37832545	TAK1 is an essential kinase for STING trafficking. 	TAK1 is an essential kinase for STING trafficking	immunotherapy, phosphorylation, stimulator of interferon genes, trafficking, transforming growth factor beta-activated kinase 1	The translocation of stimulator of interferon genes (STING) from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC) enables its activation. However, the mechanism underlying the regulation of STING exit from the ER remains elusive. Here, we found that STING induces the activation of transforming growth factor beta-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) prior to STING trafficking in a TAK1 binding protein 1 (TAB1)-dependent manner. Intriguingly, activated TAK1 directly mediates STING phosphorylation on serine 355, which facilitates its interaction with STING ER exit protein (STEEP) and thereby promotes its oligomerization and translocation to the ERGIC for subsequent activation. Importantly, activation of TAK1 by monophosphoryl lipid A, a TLR4 agonist, boosts cGAMP-induced antitumor immunity dependent on STING phosphorylation in a mouse allograft tumor model. Taken together, TAK1 was identified as a checkpoint for STING activation by promoting its trafficking, providing a basis for combinatory tumor immunotherapy and intervention in STING-related diseases.
PXD042830	37833251	Critical role of VHL/BICD2/STAT1 axis in crystal-associated kidney disease. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of VHL and BICD2 binding protein in HEK-293t cells	VHL BICD2 MS HEK-293T	Nephrolithiasis is highly prevalent and associated with the increased risk of kidney cancer. The tumor suppressor von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) is critical for renal cancer development, however, its role in kidney stone disease has not been fully elucidated until now. Here we reported VHL expression was upregulated in renal epithelial cells upon exposure to crystal. Utilizing Vhl(+/mu) mouse model, depletion of VHL exacerbated kidney inflammatory injury during nephrolithiasis. Conversely, overexpression of VHL limited crystal-induced lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis in a BICD2-depdendent manner. Mechanistically, VHL interacted with the cargo adaptor BICD2 and promoted itsd K48-linked poly-ubiquitination, consequently resulting in the proteasomal degradation of BICD2. Through promoting STAT1 nuclear translocation, BICD2 facilitated IFNgamma signaling transduction and enhanced IFNgamma-mediated suppression of cystine/glutamate antiporter system Xc(-), eventually increasing cell sensitivity to ferroptosis. Moreover, we found that the BRAF inhibitor impaired the association of VHL with BICD2 through triggering BICD2 phosphorylation, ultimately causing severe ferroptosis and nephrotoxicity. Collectively, our results uncover the important role of VHL/BICD2/STAT1 axis in crystal kidney injury and provide a potential therapeutic target for treatment and prevention of renal inflammation and drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
PXD034894	37833274	Integrative solution structure of PTBP1-IRES complex reveals strong compaction and ordering with residual conformational flexibility. 	Integrative structure determination of an 85-kilodalton PTBP1-IRES complex in solution reveals a strong compaction with pronounced conformational flexibility	CLIR-MS, IRES, PTBP1, RNA-protein, RNA-protein complex, RRM, UV cross-linking, integrative modelling, protein-RNA, protein-RNA complex, splicing, structural proteomics, structure	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are crucial regulators of gene expression, often composed of defined domains interspersed with flexible, intrinsically disordered regions. Determining the structure of ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes involving such RBPs necessitates integrative structural modeling due to their lack of a single stable state. In this study, we integrate magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, and small-angle scattering data to determine the solution structure of the polypyrimidine-tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1/hnRNP I) bound to an RNA fragment from the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) of the encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV). This binding, essential for enhancing the translation of viral RNA, leads to a complex structure that demonstrates RNA and protein compaction, while maintaining pronounced conformational flexibility. Acting as an RNA chaperone, PTBP1 orchestrates the IRES RNA into a few distinct conformations, exposing the RNA stems outward. This conformational diversity is likely common among RNP structures and functionally important. Our approach enables atomic-level characterization of heterogeneous RNP structures.
PXD040884	37833300	Brain proteomic atlas of alcohol use disorder in adult males. 	Brain Proteomic Atlas of Alcohol Use Disorder in Adult Males	alcohol use disorder, alcoholism, brain, drug targets	Alcohol use disorder (AUD) affects transcriptomic, epigenetic and proteomic expression in several organs, including the brain. There has not been a comprehensive analysis of altered protein abundance focusing on the multiple brain regions that undergo neuroadaptations occurring in AUD. We performed a quantitative proteomic analysis using a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis of human postmortem tissue from brain regions that play key roles in the development and maintenance of AUD, the amygdala (AMG), hippocampus (HIPP), hypothalamus (HYP), nucleus accumbens (NAc), prefrontal cortex (PFC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA). Brain tissues were from adult males with AUD (n = 11) and matched controls (n = 16). Across the two groups, there were >6000 proteins quantified with differential protein abundance in AUD compared to controls in each of the six brain regions. The region with the greatest number of differentially expressed proteins was the AMG, followed by the HYP. Pathways associated with differentially expressed proteins between groups (fold change > 1.5 and LIMMA p < 0.01) were analyzed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). In the AMG, adrenergic, opioid, oxytocin, GABA receptor and cytokine pathways were among the most enriched. In the HYP, dopaminergic signaling pathways were the most enriched. Proteins with differential abundance in AUD highlight potential therapeutic targets such as oxytocin, CSNK1D (PF-670462), GABAB receptor and opioid receptors and may lead to the identification of other potential targets. These results improve our understanding of the molecular alterations of AUD across brain regions that are associated with the development and maintenance of AUD. Proteomic data from this study is publicly available at www.lmdomics.org/AUDBrainProteomeAtlas/ .
PXD040972	37833311	Physiological and stoichiometric characterization of ethanol-based chain elongation in the absence of short-chain carboxylic acids. 	Proteomic analysis chain-elongating microorganisms	Clostridium kluyveri, chain-elongation, label free quantification, shotgun proteomics	Hexanoate is a valuable chemical that can be produced by microorganisms that convert short-chain- to medium-chain carboxylic acids through a process called chain elongation. These microorganisms usually produce mixtures of butyrate and hexanoate from ethanol and acetate, but direct conversion of ethanol to hexanoate is theoretically possible. Steering microbial communities to ethanol-only elongation to hexanoate circumvents the need for acetate addition and simplifies product separation. The biological feasibility of ethanol elongation to hexanoate was validated in batch bioreactor experiments with a Clostridium kluyveri-dominated enrichment culture incubated with ethanol, acetate and butyrate in different ratios. Frequent liquid sampling combined with high-resolution off-gas measurements allowed to monitor metabolic behavior. In experiments with an initial ethanol-to-acetate ratio of 6:1, acetate depletion occurred after +/- 35 h of fermentation, which triggered a metabolic shift to direct conversion of ethanol to hexanoate despite the availability of butyrate (+/- 40 mCmol L(-1)). When only ethanol and no external electron acceptor was supplied, stable ethanol to hexanoate conversion could be maintained until 60-90 mCmol L(-1) of hexanoate was produced. After this, transient production of either acetate and butyrate or butyrate and hexanoate was observed, requiring a putative reversal of the Rnf complex. This was not observed before acetate depletion or in presence of low concentrations (40-60 mCmol L(-1)) of butyrate, suggesting a stabilizing or regulatory role of butyrate or butyrate-related catabolic intermediates. This study sheds light on previously unknown versatility of chain elongating microbes and provides new avenues for optimizing (waste) bioconversion for hexanoate production.
PXD035147	37833721	Integrated proteome and malonylome analyses reveal the potential meaning of TLN1 and ACTB in end-stage renal disease. 	Integrated proteome and malonylome analyses reveal the potential meaning of TLN1 and ACTB in end-stage renal disease	chronic kidney disease (CKD), end-stage renal disease (ESRD), lysine malonylation (Kmal), platelet activation, post-translational modification (PTM)	BACKGROUND: End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is a condition that is characterized by the loss of kidney function. ESRD patients suffer from various endothelial dysfunctions, inflammation, and immune system defects. Lysine malonylation (Kmal) is a recently discovered post-translational modification (PTM). Although Kmal has the ability to regulate a wide range of biological processes in various organisms, its specific role in ESRD is limited. METHODS: In this study, the affinity enrichment and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) techniques have been used to create the first global proteome and malonyl proteome (malonylome) profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from twenty patients with ESRD and eighty-one controls. RESULTS: On analysis, 793 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and 12 differentially malonylated proteins (DMPs) with 16 Kmal sites were identified. The Rap1 signaling pathway and platelet activation pathway were found to be important in the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD), as were DMPs TLN1 and ACTB, as well as one malonylated site. One conserved Kmal motif was also discovered. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provided the first report on the Kmal profile in ESRD, which could be useful in understanding the potential role of lysine malonylation modification in the development of ESRD.
PXD035583	37833989	Proteomics Reveals mRNA Regulation and the Action of Annexins in Thyroid Cancer. 	Multiomic approaches for thyroid cancer diagnosis	Biomarkers, Mixomics, SWATH-MS, Thyroid cancer, Tissue	Differentiated thyroid cancer is the most common malignancy of the endocrine system. Although most thyroid nodules are benign, given the high incidence of thyroid nodules in the population, it is important to understand the differences between benign and malignant thyroid cancer and the molecular alterations associated with malignancy to improve detection and signal potential diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic targets. Proteomics analysis of benign and malignant human thyroid tissue largely revealed changes indicating modifications in RNA regulation, a common cancer characteristic. In addition, changes in the immune system and cell membrane/endocytic processes were also suggested to be involved. Annexin A1 was considered a potential malignancy biomarker and, similarly to other annexins, it was found to increase in the malignant group. Furthermore, a bioinformatics approach points to the transcription factor Sp1 as being potentially involved in most of the alterations seen in the malignant thyroid nodules.
PXD042567	37834061	Salivary Cystatin D Interactome in Patients with Systemic Mastocytosis: An Exploratory Study. 	The Cystatin D Interactome Associated to Systemic Mastocytosis	Cystatin D, High-resolution Mass Spectrometry, Immunoprecipitation assay, Mastocytosis	Mastocytosis, a rare blood disorder characterized by the proliferation of clonal abnormal mast cells, has a variegated clinical spectrum and diagnosis is often difficult and delayed. Recently we proposed the cathepsin inhibitor cystatin D-R26 as a salivary candidate biomarker of systemic mastocytosis (SM). Its C26 variant is able to form multiprotein complexes (mPCs) and since protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are crucial for studying disease pathogenesis, potential markers, and therapeutic targets, we aimed to define the protein composition of the salivary cystatin D-C26 interactome associated with SM. An exploratory affinity purification-mass spectrometry method was applied on pooled salivary samples from SM patients, SM patient subgroups with and without cutaneous symptoms (SM+C and SM-C), and healthy controls (Ctrls). Interactors specifically detected in Ctrls were found to be implicated in networks associated with cell and tissue homeostasis, innate system, endopeptidase regulation, and antimicrobial protection. Interactors distinctive of SM-C patients participate to PPI networks related to glucose metabolism, protein S-nitrosylation, antibacterial humoral response, and neutrophil degranulation, while interactors specific to SM+C were mainly associated with epithelial and keratinocyte differentiation, cytoskeleton rearrangement, and immune response pathways. Proteins sensitive to redox changes, as well as proteins with immunomodulatory properties and activating mast cells, were identified in patients; many of them were involved directly in cytoskeleton rearrangement, a process crucial for mast cell activation. Although preliminary, these results demonstrate that PPI alterations of the cystatin D-C26 interactome are associated with SM and provide a basis for future investigations based on quantitative proteomic analysis and immune validation.
PXD043626	37834084	Nicotine Exposure in a Phencyclidine-Induced Mice Model of Schizophrenia: Sex-Selective Medial Prefrontal Cortex Protein Markers of the Combined Insults in Adolescent Mice. 	Schizophrenia and nicotine proteomics	Comorbidity, E-cigarette, Nicotine addiction, Prodrome., Psychiatric disorder	Tobacco misuse as a comorbidity of schizophrenia is frequently established during adolescence. However, comorbidity markers are still missing. Here, the method of label-free proteomics was used to identify deregulated proteins in the medial prefrontal cortex (prelimbic and infralimbic) of male and female mice modelled to schizophrenia with a history of nicotine exposure during adolescence. Phencyclidine (PCP), used to model schizophrenia (SCHZ), was combined with an established model of nicotine minipump infusions (NIC). The combined insults led to worse outcomes than each insult separately when considering the absolute number of deregulated proteins and that of exclusively deregulated ones. Partially shared Reactome pathways between sexes and between PCP, NIC and PCPNIC groups indicate functional overlaps. Distinctively, proteins differentially expressed exclusively in PCPNIC mice reveal unique effects associated with the comorbidity model. Interactome maps of these proteins identified sex-selective subnetworks, within which some proteins stood out: for females, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (Fkbp1a) and heat shock 70 kDa protein 1B (Hspa1b), both components of the oxidative stress subnetwork, and gamma-enolase (Eno2), a component of the energy metabolism subnetwork; and for males, amphiphysin (Amph), a component of the synaptic transmission subnetwork. These are proposed to be further investigated and validated as markers of the combined insult during adolescence.
PXD041515	37834337	Multi-Omic Temporal Landscape of Plasma and Synovial Fluid-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Using an Experimental Model of Equine Osteoarthritis. 	Multiomic temporal landscape of plasma and synovial fluid derived extracellular vesicles using an experimental model of equine osteoarthritis	extracellular vesicles, osteoarthritis, plasma, proteins, small non-coding RNA, synovial fluid	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) contribute to osteoarthritis pathogenesis through their release into joint tissues and synovial fluid. Synovial fluid-derived EVs have the potential to be direct biomarkers in the causal pathway of disease but also enable understanding of their role in disease progression. Utilizing a temporal model of osteoarthritis, we defined the changes in matched synovial fluid and plasma-derived EV small non-coding RNA and protein cargo using sequencing and mass spectrometry. Data exploration included time series clustering, factor analysis and gene enrichment interrogation. Chondrocyte signalling was analysed using luciferase-based transcription factor activity assays. EV protein cargo appears to be more important during osteoarthritis progression than small non-coding RNAs. Cluster analysis revealed plasma-EVs represented a time-dependent response to osteoarthritis induction associated with supramolecular complexes. Clusters for synovial fluid-derived EVs were associated with initial osteoarthritis response and represented immune/inflammatory pathways. Factor analysis for plasma-derived EVs correlated with day post-induction and were primarily composed of proteins modulating lipid metabolism. Synovial fluid-derived EVs factors represented intermediate filament and supramolecular complexes reflecting tissue repair. There was a significant interaction between time and osteoarthritis for CRE, NFkB, SRE, SRF with a trend for osteoarthritis synovial fluid-derived EVs at later time points to have a more pronounced effect.
PXD044432	37834386	Proteomics Profiling of Bladder Cancer Tissues from Early to Advanced Stages Reveals NNMT and GALK1 as Biomarkers for Early Detection and Prognosis of BCa. 	Comparative proteomics analysis of bladder cancer tissues to reveal proteins associated with cancer progression	Progenesis QIP, Rapigest, bladder cancer, fresh frozen tissues	The high recurrence rate and invasive diagnostic and monitoring methods in bladder cancer (BCa) clinical management require the development of new non-invasive molecular tools for early detection, particularly for low-grade and low-stage BCa as well as for risk stratification. By using an in-solution digestion method and label-free data-independent LC-MS/MS coupled with ion mobility, we profiled the BCa tissues from initiation to advanced stages and confidently identified and quantified 1619 proteins (>=2 peptides). A statistically significant difference in abundance (Anova <= 0.05) showed 494 proteins. Significant correlation with stage with steady up or down with BCa stages showed 15 proteins. Testing of NNMT, GALK1, and HTRA1 in urine samples showed excellent diagnostic potential for NNMT and GALK1 with AUC of 1.000 (95% CI: 1.000-1.000; p < 0.0001) and 0.801 (95% CI: 0.655-0.947; p < 0.0001), respectively. NNMT and GALK1 also showed very good potential in discriminating non-invasive low-grade from invasive high-grade BCa with AUC of 0.763 (95% CI: 0.606-0.921; p = 0.001) and 0.801 (95% CI: 0.653-0.950; p < 0.0001), respectively. The combination of NNMT and GALK1 increased prognostic accuracy (AUC = 0.813). Our results broaden the range of potential novel candidates for non-invasive BCa diagnosis and prognosis.
PXD041694	37834424	Prenatal Metal Exposure Alters the Placental Proteome in a Sex-Dependent Manner in Extremely Low Gestational Age Newborns: Links to Gestational Age. 	Prenatal Exposure to Metals Alters the Placental Inflammatory Proteome in a Sex-Dependent Manner in Extremely Low Gestational Age Newborns	Biomarker, Metal exposure, Placenta	Prenatal exposure to toxic metals is associated with altered placental function and adverse infant and child health outcomes. Adverse outcomes include those that are observed at the time of birth, such as low birthweight, as well as those that arise later in life, such as neurological impairment. It is often the case that these adverse outcomes show sex-specific responses in relation to toxicant exposures. While the precise molecular mechanisms linking in utero toxic metal exposures with later-in-life health are unknown, placental inflammation is posited to play a critical role. Here, we sought to understand whether in utero metal exposure is associated with alterations in the expression of the placental proteome by identifying metal associated proteins (MAPs). Within the Extremely Low Gestational Age Newborns (ELGAN) cohort (n = 230), placental and umbilical cord tissue samples were collected at birth. Arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), lead (Pb), selenium (Se), and manganese (Mn) concentrations were measured in umbilical cord tissue samples via ICP-MS/MS. Protein expression was examined in placental samples using an LC-MS/MS-based, global, untargeted proteomics analysis measuring more than 3400 proteins. MAPs were then evaluated for associations with pregnancy and neonatal outcomes, including placental weight and gestational age. We hypothesized that metal levels would be positively associated with the altered expression of inflammation/immune-associated pathways and that sex-specific patterns of metal-associated placental protein expression would be observed. Sex-specific analyses identified 89 unique MAPs expressed in female placentas and 41 unique MAPs expressed in male placentas. Notably, many of the female-associated MAPs are known to be involved in immune-related processes, while the male-associated MAPs are associated with intracellular transport and cell localization. Further, several MAPs were significantly associated with gestational age in males and females and placental weight in males. These data highlight the linkage between prenatal metal exposure and an altered placental proteome, with implications for altering the trajectory of fetal development.
PXD037946	37835457	Absolute Quantification of Pan-Cancer Plasma Proteomes Reveals Unique Signature in Multiple Myeloma. 	Pan-cancer plasma proteome profiling using SIS recombinant protein fragments reveals downregulation of proteins interacting with immunoglobulins in multiple myeloma	Cancer, Multiple Myeloma, Plasma Profiling, Targeted Proteomics	Mass spectrometry based on data-independent acquisition (DIA) has developed into a powerful quantitative tool with a variety of implications, including precision medicine. Combined with stable isotope recombinant protein standards, this strategy provides confident protein identification and precise quantification on an absolute scale. Here, we describe a comprehensive targeted proteomics approach to profile a pan-cancer cohort consisting of 1800 blood plasma samples representing 15 different cancer types. We successfully performed an absolute quantification of 253 proteins in multiplex. The assay had low intra-assay variability with a coefficient of variation below 20% (CV = 17.2%) for a total of 1013 peptides quantified across almost two thousand injections. This study identified a potential biomarker panel of seven protein targets for the diagnosis of multiple myeloma patients using differential expression analysis and machine learning. The combination of markers, including the complement C1 complex, JCHAIN, and CD5L, resulted in a prediction model with an AUC of 0.96 for the identification of multiple myeloma patients across various cancer patients. All these proteins are known to interact with immunoglobulins.
PXD045064	37836235	Strategies of NaCl Tolerance in Saline-Alkali-Tolerant Green Microalga Monoraphidium dybowskii LB50. 	Proteomic Analysis of a saline-alkali tolerant green microalga under NaCl stress	iTRAQ, microalgae	Studying how freshwater cells modify metabolism and membrane lipids in response to salt stress is important for understanding how freshwater organisms adapt to salt stress and investigating new osmoregulatory ways. Physiological, biochemical, metabolic, and proteomic analyses were applied in a novel saline-alkali-tolerant microalga Monoraphidium dybowskii LB50 under different NaCl concentrations. Cells adopt a variety of strategies to adapt to salt stress, including increasing ion transport and osmolytes, regulating cell cycle and life history, and accumulating triacylglycerol (TAG). A large number of metabolic activities point to TAG accumulation. With increasing NaCl concentration, the C resource for TAG accumulation went from photosynthetically fixed C and a small amount of lipid remodeling to macromolecule degradation and a mass of lipid remodeling, respectively. The energy for TAG accumulation went from linear electron transfer and oxidative phosphate pentose pathway to cyclic electron flow, substrate phosphorylation, oxidation phosphorylation, and FA oxidation. Additionally, digalacturonic acid and amino acids of the N-acetyl group, which usually were the osmotica for marine organisms, were important for M. dybowskii LB50. Freshwater organisms evolved many biological ways to adapt to salt stress. This insight enriches our understanding of the adaptation mechanisms underlying abiotic stress.
PXD039337	37838026	HIC1 interacts with FOXP3 multi protein complex: Novel pleiotropic mechanisms to regulate human regulatory T cell differentiation and function. 	HIC1 interacts with FOXP3 multi protein complex: a novel mechanism to regulate human regulatory T cell differentiation and function	FOXP3, HIC1, Immunoprecipitation, Interactome, Protein complex, RUNX1, Regulatory T cells, T cell differentiation, TGF-beta, Treg, iTreg.	Transcriptional repressor, hypermethylated in cancer 1 (HIC1) participates in a range of important biological processes, such as tumor repression, immune suppression, embryonic development and epigenetic gene regulation. Further to these, we previously demonstrated that HIC1 provides a significant contribution to the function and development of regulatory T (Treg) cells. However, the mechanism by which it regulates these processes was not apparent. To address this question, we used affinity-purification mass spectrometry to characterize the HIC1 interactome in human Treg cells. Altogether 61 high-confidence interactors were identified, including IKZF3, which is a key transcription factor in the development of Treg cells. The biological processes associated with these interacting proteins include protein transport, mRNA processing, non-coding (ncRNA) transcription and RNA metabolism. The results revealed that HIC1 is part of a FOXP3-RUNX1-CBFB protein complex that regulates Treg signature genes thus improving our understanding of HIC1 function during early Treg cell differentiation.
PXD036130	37839625	A novel metalloproteinase-derived cryptide from Bothrops cotiara venom inhibits angiotensin-converting enzyme activity. 	Peptidome of Bothrops cotiara snake venom	Bothrops cotiara, Peptidome, Snake venoms	Snake venoms are primarily composed of proteins and peptides, which selectively interact with specific molecular targets, disrupting prey homeostasis. Identifying toxins and the mechanisms involved in envenoming can lead to the discovery of new drugs based on natural peptide scaffolds. In this study, we used mass spectrometry-based peptidomics to sequence 197 peptides in the venom of Bothrops cotiara, including a novel 7-residue peptide derived from a snake venom metalloproteinase. This peptide, named Bc-7a, features a pyroglutamic acid at the N-terminal and a PFR motif at the C-terminal, homologous to bradykinin. Using FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) substrate assays, we demonstrated that Bc-7a strongly inhibits the two domains of angiotensin converting enzyme (Ki < 1 muM). Our findings contribute to the repertoire of biologically active peptides from snake venoms capable of inhibiting angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), beyond current known structural motifs and precursors. In summary, we report a novel snake venom peptide with ACE inhibitory activity, suggesting its potential contribution to the hypotensive effect observed in envenomation.
PXD044860	37839702	High-Resolution Structural Proteomics of Mitochondria Using the 'Build and Retrieve' Methodology. 	cryo-EM study of human liver mitochondria lysate	cryo-EM, human liver, mitochondria	The application of integrated systems biology to the field of structural biology is a promising new direction, although it is still in the infant stages of development. Here we report the use of single particle cryo-EM to identify multiple proteins from three enriched heterogeneous fractions prepared from human liver mitochondrial lysate. We simultaneously identify and solve high-resolution structures of nine essential mitochondrial enzymes with key metabolic functions, including fatty acid catabolism, reactive oxidative species clearance, and amino acid metabolism. Our methodology also identified multiple distinct members of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. This work highlights the potential of cryo-EM to explore tissue proteomics at the atomic level.
PXD043492	37841261	Modified activities of macrophages' deubiquitinating enzymes after Francisella infection. 	Deubiquitinating enzymes in human macrophages after Francisella tularensis infection	Francisella tularensis, LC-MS, host-pathogen, macrophage	Francisella tularensis influences several host molecular/signaling pathways during infection. Ubiquitination and deubiquitination are among the most important regulatory mechanisms and respectively occur through attachment or removal of the ubiquitin molecule. The process is necessary not only to mark molecules for degradation, but also, for example, to the activation of signaling pathways leading to pro-inflammatory host response. Many intracellular pathogens, including Francisella tularensis, have evolved mechanisms of modifying such host immune responses to escape degradation. Here, we describe that F. tularensis interferes with the host's ubiquitination system. We show increased total activity of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) in human macrophages after infection, while confirm reduced enzymatic activities of two specific DUBs (USP10 and UCH-L5), and demonstrate increased activity of USP25. We further reveal the enrichment of these three enzymes in exosomes derived from F. tularensis-infected cells. The obtained results show the regulatory effect on ubiquitination mechanism in macrophages during F. tularensis infection.
PXD040561	37841581	Dominant-negative HNF1alpha mutant promotes liver steatosis and inflammation by regulating hepatic complement factor D. 	Human HNF1A KI mice liver proteome analysis	HNF1A, liver	Patients with HNF1A variants may develop liver steatosis, while the underlying mechanism is still unclear. Here, we established a mouse model carrying the dominant-negative HNF1alpha P291fsinsC mutation (hHNF1A(mut/-)) and found that the mutant mice developed liver steatosis spontaneously under the normal chow diet. Transcriptome analysis showed significant upregulation of Cfd and other genes related to innate immune response in the liver of hHNF1A(mut/-) mice. The changes in lipid metabolism and complement pathways were also confirmed by proteomics. We demonstrated that HNF1alpha inhibited CFD expression in hepatocytes, and the P291fsinsC mutant could reverse this inhibitory effect. Furthermore, the suppression of CFD with specific inhibitor or siRNAs reduced triglyceride levels in hepatocytes, suggesting that CFD regulated hepatocyte lipid deposition. Our results demonstrate that the HNF1alpha P291fsinsC mutant promotes hepatic steatosis and inflammation by upregulating CFD expression, and targeting CFD may delay the progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
PXD037093	37841933	Isolation and characterization of ZK002, a novel dual function snake venom protein from Deinagkistrodon acutus with anti-angiogenic and anti-inflammatory properties. 	Isolation and Characterization of ZK002, A Novel Dual Function Snake Venom Peptide from Deinagkistrodon acutus with Anti-angiogenic and Anti-inflammatory Properties	ZK002, anti-angiogenesis, anti-inflammation, snake venom	Introduction: Pathological angiogenesis, the abnormal or excessive generation of blood vessels, plays an important role in many diseases including cancer, diabetic retinopathy, psoriasis, and arthritis. Additionally, increasing evidence supports the close linkage between angiogenesis and inflammation. Snake venoms are a rich natural source of biologically active molecules and carry rich potential for the discovery of anti-angiogenic and anti-inflammatory modulators. Methods: Here, we isolated and purified a novel protein, ZK002, from the venom of the snake Deinagkistrodon acutus, and investigated its anti-angiogenic and anti-inflammatory activities and mechanisms. Results: ZK002 was identified as a 30 kDa heterodimeric protein of alpha and beta chains, which exhibited anti-angiogenic activity in various in vitro assays. Mechanistically, ZK002 inhibited activation of VEGF signaling and related mediators including eNOS, p38, LIMK, and HSP27. ZK002 also upregulated the metalloproteinase inhibitor TIMP3 and inhibited components of the VEGF-induced signaling cascade, PPP3R2 and SH2D2A. The anti-angiogenic activity of ZK002 was confirmed in multiple in vivo models. ZK002 could also inhibit the in vitro expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, as well as in vivo inflammation in the carrageenin-induced edema rat model. Conclusion: Our findings highlight the potential for further development of ZK002 as a dual function therapeutic against diseases with involvement of pathogenic angiogenesis and chronic inflammation.
PXD032054	37842619	SARS-CoV-2 mutations affect antigen processing by the proteasome to alter CD8(+) T cell responses. 	Mutations in epitope flanking regions for SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein affect proteasomal processing to alter CD8+ T cell responses	Antigen, Covid-19, Epitope, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, T-cell	Mutations within viral epitopes can result in escape from T cells, but the contribution of mutations in flanking regions of epitopes in SARS-CoV-2 has not been investigated. Focusing on two SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein CD8(+) epitopes, we investigated the contribution of these flanking mutations to proteasomal processing and T cell activation. We found decreased NP9-17-B*27:05 CD8(+) T cell responses to the NP-Q7K mutation, likely due to a lack of efficient epitope production by the proteasome, suggesting immune escape caused by this mutation. In contrast, NP-P6L and NP-D103 N/Y mutations flanking the NP9-17-B*27:05 and NP105-113-B*07:02 epitopes, respectively, increased CD8(+) T cell responses associated with enhanced epitope production by the proteasome. Our results provide evidence that SARS-CoV-2 mutations outside the epitope could have a significant impact on proteasomal processing, either contributing to T cell escape or enhancement that may be exploited for future vaccine design.
PXD042146	37843098	Immunoprecipitation of RNA-DNA hybrid interacting proteins in Trypanosoma brucei reveals conserved and novel activities, including in the control of surface antigen expression needed for immune evasion by antigenic variation. 	Immunoprecipitation of RNA-DNA hybrid interacting proteins in Trypanosoma brucei reveals conserved and novel activities, including in host immune evasion by antigenic variation	DNA-RNA interactors, R loops	RNA-DNA hybrids are epigenetic features of genomes that provide a diverse and growing range of activities. Understanding of these functions has been informed by characterising the proteins that interact with the hybrids, but all such analyses have so far focused on mammals, meaning it is unclear if a similar spectrum of RNA-DNA hybrid interactors is found in other eukaryotes. The African trypanosome is a single-cell eukaryotic parasite of the Discoba grouping and displays substantial divergence in several aspects of core biology from its mammalian host. Here, we show that DNA-RNA hybrid immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry recovers 602 putative interactors in T. brucei mammal- and insect-infective cells, some providing activities also found in mammals and some lineage-specific. We demonstrate that loss of three factors, two putative helicases and a RAD51 paralogue, alters T. brucei nuclear RNA-DNA hybrid and DNA damage levels. Moreover, loss of each factor affects the operation of the parasite immune survival mechanism of antigenic variation. Thus, our work reveals the broad range of activities contributed by RNA-DNA hybrids to T. brucei biology, including new functions in host immune evasion as well as activities likely fundamental to eukaryotic genome function.
PXD042932	37845206	LAIR1 drives glioma progression by nuclear focal adhesion kinase dependent expressions of cyclin D1 and immunosuppressive chemokines/cytokines. 	Gated phosphorylated proteomics of LAIR1-overexpressed  and LAIR1-control in GL261 cells	GL261 cells, LAIR1, phosphorylated proteomics	Leukocyte-associated immunoglobulin-like receptor-1 (LAIR1), an immune receptor containing immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibiory motifs (ITIMs), has emerged as an attractive target for cancer therapy. However, the intrinsic function of LAIR1 in gliomas remains unclear. In this study, the poor prognosis of glioma patients and the malignant proliferation of glioma cells in vitro and in vivo were found to be closely correlated with LAIR1. LAIR1 facilitates focal adhesion kinase (FAK) nuclear localization, resulting in increased transcription of cyclin D1 and chemokines/cytokines (CCL5, TGFbeta2, and IL33). LAIR1 specifically supports in the immunosuppressive glioma microenvironment via CCL5-mediated microglia/macrophage polarization. SHP2(Q510E) (PTP domain mutant) or FAK(NLM) (non-nuclear localizing mutant) significantly reversed the LAIR1-induced growth enhancement in glioma cells. In addition, LAIR1(Y251/281F) (ITIMs mutant) and SHP2(Q510E) mutants significantly reduced FAK nuclear localization, as well as CCL5 and cyclin D1 expression. Further experiments revealed that the ITIMs of LAIR1 recruited SH2-containing phosphatase 2 (SHP2), which then interacted with FAK and induced FAK nuclear localization. This study uncovered a critical role for intrinsic LAIR1 in facilitating glioma malignant progression and demonstrated a requirement for LAIR1 and SHP2 to enhance FAK nuclear localization.
PXD040218	37845672	Proteomic analysis of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyryl in SLE reveals protein modification alteration in complement and coagulation cascades and platelet activation Pathways. 	Proteomic analysis of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyryl in SLE reveals protein modification alteration in Complement and coagulation cascades and Platelet activation pathways	PBMC, SLE, lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyryl	BACKGROUND: Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are considered to be an important factor in the pathogenesis of Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyryl (Khib), as an emerging post-translational modification of proteins, is involved in some important biological metabolic activities. However, there are poor studies on its correlation with diseases, especially SLE. OBJECTIVE: We performed quantitative, comparative, and bioinformatic analysis of Khib proteins in Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of SLE patients and PBMCs of healthy controls. Searching for pathways related to SLE disease progression and exploring the role of Khib in SLE. METHODS: Khib levels in SLE patients and healthy controls were compared based on liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, then proteomic analysis was conducted. RESULTS: Compared with healthy controls, Khib in SLE patients was up-regulated at 865 sites of 416 proteins and down-regulated at 630 sites of 349 proteins. The site abundance, distribution and function of Khib protein were investigated further. Bioinformatics analysis showed that Complement and coagulation cascades and Platelet activation in immune-related pathways were significantly enriched, suggesting that differentially modified proteins among them may affect SLE. CONCLUSION: Khib in PBMCs of SLE patients was significantly up- or down-regulated compared with healthy controls. Khib modification of key proteins in the Complement and coagulation cascades and Platelet activation pathways affects platelet activation and aggregation, coagulation functions in SLE patients. This result provides a new direction for the possible significance of Khib in the pathogenesis of SLE patients.
PXD038691	37847741	Immune Surveillance of Acute Myeloid Leukemia Is Mediated by HLA-Presented Antigens on Leukemia Progenitor Cells. 	Immune surveillance of acute myeloid leukemia is mediated by HLA-presented antigens on leukemia progenitor cells	HLA peptides, acute myeloid leukemia, immunopeptidomics, immunotherapy, leukemic progenitor cells	Therapy-resistant leukemia stem and progenitor cells (LSC) are a main cause of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) relapse. LSC-targeting therapies may thus improve outcome of patients with AML. Here we demonstrate that LSCs present HLA-restricted antigens that induce T-cell responses allowing for immune surveillance of AML. Using a mass spectrometry-based immunopeptidomics approach, we characterized the antigenic landscape of patient LSCs and identified AML- and AML/LSC-associated HLA-presented antigens absent from normal tissues comprising nonmutated peptides, cryptic neoepitopes, and neoepitopes of common AML driver mutations of NPM1 and IDH2. Functional relevance of shared AML/LSC antigens is illustrated by presence of their cognizant memory T cells in patients. Antigen-specific T-cell recognition and HLA class II immunopeptidome diversity correlated with clinical outcome. Together, these antigens shared among AML and LSCs represent prime targets for T cell-based therapies with potential of eliminating residual LSCs in patients with AML. SIGNIFICANCE: The elimination of therapy-resistant leukemia stem and progenitor cells (LSC) remains a major challenge in the treatment of AML. This study identifies and functionally validates LSC-associated HLA class I and HLA class II-presented antigens, paving the way to the development of LSC-directed T cell-based immunotherapeutic approaches for patients with AML. See related commentary by Ritz, p. 430 . This article is featured in Selected Articles from This Issue, p. 419.
PXD041277	37847886	Global profiling of protein lactylation in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	Global profiling of protein lactylation in Caenorhabditis elegans (label-free quantitative proteomic data)	Caenorhabditis elegans, lactylation, post-translational modification	Lactylation, as a novel posttranslational modification, is essential for studying the functions and regulation of proteins in physiological and pathological processes, as well as for gaining in-depth knowledge on the occurrence and development of many diseases, including tumors. However, few studies have examined the protein lactylation of one whole organism. Thus, we studied the lactylation of global proteins in Caenorhabditis elegans to obtain an in vivo lactylome. Using an MS-based platform, we identified 1836 Class I (localization probabilities > 0.75) lactylated sites in 487 proteins. Bioinformatics analysis showed that lactylated proteins were mainly located in the cytoplasm and involved in the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle) and other metabolic pathways. Then, we evaluated the conservation of lactylation in different organisms. In total, 41 C. elegans proteins were lactylated and homologous to lactylated proteins in humans and rats. Moreover, lactylation on H4K80 was conserved in three species. An additional 238 lactylated proteins were identified in C. elegans for the first time. This study establishes the first lactylome database in C. elegans and provides a basis for studying the role of lactylation.
PXD031346	37848034	Differential network analysis of ROS1 inhibitors reveals lorlatinib polypharmacology through co-targeting PYK2. 	Differential network analysis of ROS1 inhibitors reveals lorlatinib polypharmacology: Phosphotyrosine Profiling	Lorlatinib, Lung Cancer, ROS1, Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors, phosphotyrosine, polypharmacology	Multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are often developed for the same indication. However, their relative overall efficacy is frequently incompletely understood and they may harbor unrecognized targets that cooperate with the intended target. We compared several ROS1 TKIs for inhibition of ROS1-fusion-positive lung cancer cell viability, ROS1 autophosphorylation and kinase activity, which indicated disproportionately higher cellular potency of one TKI, lorlatinib. Quantitative chemical and phosphoproteomics across four ROS1 TKIs and differential network analysis revealed that lorlatinib uniquely impacted focal adhesion signaling. Functional validation using pharmacological probes, RNA interference, and CRISPR-Cas9 knockout uncovered a polypharmacology mechanism of lorlatinib by dual targeting ROS1 and PYK2, which form a multiprotein complex with SRC. Rational multi-targeting of this complex by combining lorlatinib with SRC inhibitors exhibited pronounced synergy. Taken together, we show that systems pharmacology-based differential network analysis can dissect mixed canonical/non-canonical polypharmacology mechanisms across multiple TKIs enabling the design of rational drug combinations.
PXD044413	37849943	Proteomic changes to immune and inflammatory processes underlie lung preservation using ex vivo cytokine adsorption. 	Proteomic changes to immune and inflammatory processes underlie lung preservation using ex vivo cytokine adsorption	Cytokine adsorption, EVLP, lung transplantation	Introduction: In recent years, the field of graft preservation has made considerable strides in improving outcomes related to solid organ restoration and regeneration. Ex vivo lung perfusion (EVLP) in line with the related devices and treatments has yielded promising results within preclinical and clinical studies, with the potential to improve graft quality. Its main benefit is to render marginal and declined donor lungs suitable for transplantation, ultimately increasing the donor pool available for transplantation. In addition, using such therapies in machine perfusion could also increase preservation time, facilitating logistical planning. Cytokine adsorption has been demonstrated as a potentially safe and effective therapy when applied to the EVLP circuit and post-transplantation. However, the mechanism by which this therapy improves the donor lung on a molecular basis is not yet fully understood. Methods: We hypothesized that there were characteristic inflammatory and immunomodulatory differences between the lungs treated with and without cytokine adsorption, reflecting proteomic changes in the gene ontology pathways and across inflammation-related proteins. In this study, we investigate the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways of how cytokine adsorption impacts lung function when used during EVLP and post-transplantation as hemoperfusion in a porcine model. Lung tissues during EVLP and post-lung transplantation were analyzed for their proteomic profiles using mass spectrometry. Results: We found through gene set enrichment analysis that the inflammatory and immune processes and coagulation pathways were significantly affected by the cytokine treatment after EVLP and transplantation. Conclusion: In conclusion, we showed that the molecular mechanisms are using a proteomic approach behind the previously reported effects of cytokine adsorption when compared to the non-treated transplant recipients undergoing EVLP.
PXD030282	37850123	Altered Carbon Partitioning Enhances CO2 to Terpene Conversion in Cyanobacteria. 	Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 proteomics	logarithmic phase stationary phase sucrose mutant	Photosynthetic terpene production represents one of the most carbon and energy-efficient routes for converting CO2 into hydrocarbon. In photosynthetic organisms, metabolic engineering has led to limited success in enhancing terpene productivity, partially due to the low carbon partitioning. In this study, we employed systems biology analysis to reveal the strong competition for carbon substrates between primary metabolism (e.g., sucrose, glycogen, and protein synthesis) and terpene biosynthesis in Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942. We then engineered key "source" and "sink" enzymes. The "source" limitation was overcome by knocking out either sucrose or glycogen biosynthesis to significantly enhance limonene production via altered carbon partitioning. Moreover, a fusion enzyme complex with geranyl diphosphate synthase (GPPS) and limonene synthase (LS) was designed to further improve pathway kinetics and substrate channeling. The synergy between "source" and "sink" achieved a limonene titer of 21.0 mg/L. Overall, the study demonstrates that balancing carbon flux between primary and secondary metabolism can be an effective approach to enhance terpene bioproduction in cyanobacteria. The design of "source" and "sink" synergy has significant potential in improving natural product yield in photosynthetic species.
PXD037104	37850636	Hypoxia stabilizes SETDB1 to maintain genome stability. 	Hypoxia stabilizes SETDB1 to maintain genome stability	Genome instability, Hypoxia, Inflammation, Innate immune response, SETDB1, Transposable Element, VHL, proline hydroxylation	Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) is a tumor suppressor that functions as the substrate recognition subunit of the CRL2VHL E3 complex. While substrates of VHL have been identified, its tumor suppressive role remains to be fully understood. For further determination of VHL substrates, we analyzed the physical interactome of VHL and identified the histone H3K9 methyltransferase SETBD1 as a novel target. SETDB1 undergoes oxygen-dependent hydroxylation by prolyl hydroxylase domain proteins and the CRL2VHL complex recognizes hydroxylated SETDB1 for ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Under hypoxic conditions, SETDB1 accumulates by escaping CRL2VHL activity. Loss of SETDB1 in hypoxia compared with that in normoxia escalates the production of transposable element-derived double-stranded RNAs, thereby hyperactivating the immune-inflammatory response. In addition, strong derepression of TEs in hypoxic cells lacking SETDB1 triggers DNA damage-induced death. Our collective results support a molecular mechanism of oxygen-dependent SETDB1 degradation by the CRL2VHL E3 complex and reveal a role of SETDB1 in genome stability under hypoxia.
PXD043392	37850662	The N-terminus of Spt16 anchors FACT to MCM2-7 for parental histone recycling. 	N-terminus of Spt16 anchors FACT to Mcm2 for parental histone recycling	FACT,parental histone recycling, Mcm2-7	Parental histone recycling is vital for maintaining chromatin-based epigenetic information during replication, yet its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we uncover an unexpected role of histone chaperone FACT and its N-terminus of the Spt16 subunit during parental histone recycling and transfer in budding yeast. Depletion of Spt16 and mutations at its middle domain that impair histone binding compromise parental histone recycling on both the leading and lagging strands of DNA replication forks. Intriguingly, deletion of the Spt16-N domain impairs parental histone recycling, with a more pronounced defect observed on the lagging strand. Mechanistically, the Spt16-N domain interacts with the replicative helicase MCM2-7 and facilitates the formation of a ternary complex involving FACT, histone H3/H4 and Mcm2 histone binding domain, critical for the recycling and transfer of parental histones to lagging strands. Lack of the Spt16-N domain weakens the FACT-MCM interaction and reduces parental histone recycling. We propose that the Spt16-N domain acts as a protein-protein interaction module, enabling FACT to function as a shuttle chaperone in collaboration with Mcm2 and potentially other replisome components for efficient local parental histone recycling and inheritance.
PXD043979	37851576	The LARP1 homolog Slr1p controls the stability and expression of proto-5'TOP mRNAs in fission yeast. 	The LARP1 homolog Slr1p controls the stability and expression of proto-5'TOP mRNAs in fission yeast	Fission Yeast, LARP1, LC/MS-MS	Messenger RNAs (mRNAs) in higher eukaryotes that encode proteins important for the assembly of the translational apparatus (e.g., ribosomal proteins) often harbor a pyrimidine-rich motif at the extreme 5' end known as a 5' terminal oligopyrimidine (5'TOP) sequence. Members of the La-related protein 1 (LARP1) family control 5'TOP expression through a conserved DM15 motif, but the mechanism is not well understood. 5'TOP motifs have not been described in many lower organisms, and fission yeast harbors a LARP1 homolog that also lacks a DM15 motif. In this work, we show that the fission yeast LARP1 homolog, Slr1p, controls the translation and stability of mRNAs encoding proteins analogous to 5'TOP mRNAs in higher eukaryotes, which we thus refer to as proto-5'TOPs. Our data suggest that the LARP1 DM15 motif and the mRNA 5'TOP motif may be features that were scaffolded over a more fundamental mechanism of LARP1-associated control of gene expression.
PXD065145	37852321	Integrative Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Cytoskeleton Regulation and Mitophagy Difference Between Ischemic Cardiomyopathy and Dilated Cardiomyopathy. 	Inegrative Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Cytaskeleton Regulation and Mtophagy Diference Between ischemicCardiomyopathy and Dilated Cardiomyopathy	Dilated cardiomyopathy, Ischemic heart disease, Pathophysiologic heterogeneity, Phosphoproteomics	Ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM) and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) are the two primary etiologies of end-stage heart failure. However, there remains a dearth of comprehensive understanding the global perspective and the dynamics of the proteome and phosphoproteome in ICM and DCM, which hinders the profound comprehension of pivotal biological characteristics as well as differences in signal transduction activation mechanisms between these two major types of heart failure. We conducted high-throughput quantification proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis of clinical heart tissues with ICM or DCM, which provided us the system-wide molecular insights into pathogenesis of clinical heart failure in both ICM and DCM. Both protein and phosphorylation expression levels exhibit distinct separation between heart failure and normal control heart tissues, highlighting the prominent characteristics of ICM and DCM. By integrating with omics results, Western blots, phosphosite-specific mutation, chemical intervention, and immunofluorescence validation, we found a significant activation of the PRKACA-GSK3beta signaling pathway in ICM. This signaling pathway influenced remolding of the microtubule network and regulated the critical actin filaments in cardiac construction. Additionally, DCM exhibited significantly elevated mitochondria energy supply injury compared to ICM, which induced the ROCK1-vimentin signaling pathway activation and promoted mitophagy. Our study not only delineated the major distinguishing features between ICM and DCM but also revealed the crucial discrepancy in the mechanisms between ICM and DCM. This study facilitates a more profound comprehension of pathophysiologic heterogeneity between ICM and DCM and provides a novel perspective to assist in the discovery of potential therapeutic targets for different types of heart failure.
PXD039866	37852977	MacroH2A1.1 as a crossroad between epigenetics, inflammation and metabolism of mesenchymal stromal cells in myelodysplastic syndromes. 	MacroH2A1.1 as a crossroad between epigenetics, inflammation and metabolism of mesenchymal stromal cells in myelodysplastic syndromes	macroH2A1.1, myelodysplastic syndromes	Ineffective hematopoiesis is a hallmark of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Hematopoietic alterations in MDS patients strictly correlate with microenvironment dysfunctions, eventually affecting also the mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) compartment. Stromal cells are indeed epigenetically reprogrammed to cooperate with leukemic cells and propagate the disease as "tumor unit"; therefore, changes in MSC epigenetic profile might contribute to the hematopoietic perturbations typical of MDS. Here, we unveil that the histone variant macroH2A1 (mH2A1) regulates the crosstalk between epigenetics and inflammation in MDS-MSCs, potentially affecting their hematopoietic support ability. We show that the mH2A1 splicing isoform mH2A1.1 accumulates in MDS-MSCs, correlating with the expression of the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), an important pro-tumor activator of MSC phenotype associated to a pro-inflammatory behavior. MH2A1.1-TLR4 axis was further investigated in HS-5 stromal cells after ectopic mH2A1.1 overexpression (mH2A1.1-OE). Proteomic data confirmed the activation of a pro-inflammatory signature associated to TLR4 and nuclear factor kappa B (NFkB) activation. Moreover, mH2A1.1-OE proteomic profile identified several upregulated proteins associated to DNA and histones hypermethylation, including S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase, a strong inhibitor of DNA methyltransferase and of the methyl donor S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM). HPLC analysis confirmed higher SAM/SAH ratio along with a metabolic reprogramming. Interestingly, an increased LDHA nuclear localization was detected both in mH2A1.1-OE cells and MDS-MSCs, probably depending on MSC inflammatory phenotype. Finally, coculturing healthy mH2A1.1-OE MSCs with CD34(+) cells, we found a significant reduction in the number of CD34(+) cells, which was reflected in a decreased number of colony forming units (CFU-Cs). These results suggest a key role of mH2A1.1 in driving the crosstalk between epigenetic signaling, inflammation, and cell metabolism networks in MDS-MSCs.
PXD039590	37853495	A preclinical platform for assessing long-term drug efficacy exploiting mechanically tunable scaffolds colonized by a three-dimensional tumor microenvironment. 	A preclinical platform for assessing long-term drug efficacy exploiting mechanically tunable scaffolds colonized by a three-dimensional tumor microenvironment	3D cancer model, drug evaluation, long-term, micro-environment, pre-clinical, stiffness	BACKGROUND: Long-term drug evaluation heavily relies upon rodent models. Drug discovery methods to reduce animal models in oncology may include three-dimensional (3D) cellular systems that take into account tumor microenvironment (TME) cell types and biomechanical properties. METHODS: In this study we reconstructed a 3D tumor using an elastic polymer (acrylate-endcapped urethane-based poly(ethylene glycol) (AUPPEG)) with clinical relevant stiffness. Single cell suspensions from low-grade serous ovarian cancer (LGSOC) patient-derived early passage cultures of cancer cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) embedded in a collagen gel were introduced to the AUPPEG scaffold. After self-organization in to a 3D tumor, this model was evaluated by a long-term (> 40 days) exposure to a drug combination of MEK and HSP90 inhibitors. The drug-response results from this long-term in vitro model are compared with drug responses in an orthotopic LGSOC xenograft mouse model. RESULTS: The in vitro 3D scaffold LGSOC model mimics the growth ratio and spatial organization of the LGSOC. The AUPPEG scaffold approach allows to test new targeted treatments and monitor long-term drug responses. The results correlate with those of the orthotopic LGSOC xenograft mouse model. CONCLUSIONS: The mechanically-tunable scaffolds colonized by a three-dimensional LGSOC allow long-term drug evaluation and can be considered as a valid alternative to reduce, replace and refine animal models in drug discovery.
PXD044121	37854181	Combining proteomic markers to construct a logistic regression model for polycystic ovary syndrome. 	Results of proteomic assay analysis in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome	LC-MS, PCOS, Serum	Introduction: Proteomics technology has been used in various fields in recent years for the Q6 exploration of novel markers and the study of disease pathogenesis, and has become one of the most important tools for researchers to explore unknown areas. However, there are fewer studies related to the construction of clinical models using proteomics markers. Methods: In our previous study we used DIA proteomics to screen for proteins that were significant in 31 PCOS patients compared to women of normal reproductive age. In this study, we used logistic regression among these protein markers to screen out variables with diagnostic value and constructed logistic regression models. Results: We constructed a logistic model using these protein markers, where HIST1H4A (OR=1.037) was an independent risk factor for polycystic ovary syndrome and TREML1 (OR=0.976) were protective factors for the disease. The logistic regression model equation is: Logit (PCOS) =0.036*[HIST1H4A]-0.024*[TREML1]-16.368. The ROC curve analyzing the diagnostic value of the model has an AUC value of 0.977 and a Youden index of0.903, which gives a cutoff value of 0.518 at this point. The model has a sensitivity of 93.5% and a specificity of 96.8%. Calibration curves show fair consistency of the model. Discussion: Our study is the first to use proteomic results with clinical biochemical data to construct a logistic regression model, and the model is consistent. However, our study still needs a more complete sample to confirm our findings.
PXD039574	37854702	An integrated systems biology approach reveals differences in formate metabolism in the genus Methanothermobacter. 	An integrated systems-biology platform for power-to-gas technology	Archaea, Formate, Gas Fermentation, Genetic Engineering, Genome Sequencing, Genome-Scale Metabolic Modeling, Methanothermobacter, Transcriptomics	Methanogenesis allows methanogenic archaea to generate cellular energy for their growth while producing methane. Thermophilic hydrogenotrophic species of the genus Methanothermobacter have been recognized as robust biocatalysts for a circular carbon economy and are already applied in power-to-gas technology with biomethanation, which is a platform to store renewable energy and utilize captured carbon dioxide. Here, we generated curated genome-scale metabolic reconstructions for three Methanothermobacter strains and investigated differences in the growth performance of these same strains in chemostat bioreactor experiments with hydrogen and carbon dioxide or formate as substrates. Using an integrated systems biology approach, we identified differences in formate anabolism between the strains and revealed that formate anabolism influences the diversion of carbon between biomass and methane. This finding, together with the omics datasets and the metabolic models we generated, can be implemented for biotechnological applications of Methanothermobacter in power-to-gas technology, and as a perspective, for value-added chemical production.
PXD042445	37854711	Shotgun proteomics to characterize wastewater proteins. 	Shotgun Proteomics to characterize wastewater proteins	Sewage Protein Information Mining (SPIM), Wastewater, compartmentalized proteome, high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS)., wastewater-based epidemiology (WBE)	Classically, the characterization of wastewater components has been restricted to the measurement of indirect parameters (chemical and biological oxygen demand, total nitrogen) and small molecules of interest in epidemiology or for environmental control. Despite the fact that metaproteomics has provided important knowledge about the microbial communities in these waters, practically nothing is known about other non-microbial proteins transported in the wastewater. The method described here has allowed us to perform a large-scale characterization of the wastewater proteome. Wastewater protein profiles have shown to be very different in different collection sites probably reflecting their human population and industrial activities. We believe that wastewater proteomics is opening the doors to the discovery of new environmental and health biomarkers and the development of new, more effective monitoring devices for issues like monitorization of population health, pest control, or control of industry discharges. The method developed is relatively simple and combines procedures for the separation of the soluble and particulate fractions of wastewater and their concentration, and conventional shotgun proteomics using high-resolution mass spectrometry for protein identification. *Unprecedented method for wastewater proteome characterization.*Proteins as new potential biomarkers for sewage chemical-information mining, wastewater epidemiology and environmental monitoring.*Wastewater protein profiles reflect human and industrial activities.
PXD037899	37856615	Elucidating the cellular determinants of targeted membrane protein degradation by lysosome-targeting chimeras. 	Cellular determinants of targeted membrane protein degradation by lysosome targeting chimeras	CRISPRi, DIA, LYTAC, lysosome, quantitative proteomics	Targeted protein degradation can provide advantages over inhibition approaches in the development of therapeutic strategies. Lysosome-targeting chimeras (LYTACs) harness receptors, such as the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor (CI-M6PR), to direct extracellular proteins to lysosomes. In this work, we used a genome-wide CRISPR knockout approach to identify modulators of LYTAC-mediated membrane protein degradation in human cells. We found that disrupting retromer genes improved target degradation by reducing LYTAC recycling to the plasma membrane. Neddylated cullin-3 facilitated LYTAC-complex lysosomal maturation and was a predictive marker for LYTAC efficacy. A substantial fraction of cell surface CI-M6PR remains occupied by endogenous M6P-modified glycoproteins. Thus, inhibition of M6P biosynthesis increased the internalization of LYTAC-target complexes. Our findings inform design strategies for next-generation LYTACs and elucidate aspects of cell surface receptor occupancy and trafficking.
PXD042752	37856871	Functional Proteomics Analysis of Norfloxacin-Resistant Edwardsiella tarda. 	Proteome of norfloxacin-resistant Edwardsiella tarda	Proteome,norfloxacin,Edwardsiella tarda	Multidrug-resistant Edwardsiella tarda threatens both sustainable aquaculture and human health, but the control measure is still lacking. In this study, we adopted functional proteomics to investigate the molecular mechanism underlying norfloxacin (NOR) resistance in E. tarda. We found that E. tarda had a global proteomic shift upon acquisition of NOR resistance, featured with increased expression of siderophore biosynthesis and Fe(3+)-hydroxamate transport. Thus, either inhibition of siderophore biosynthesis with salicyl-AMS or treatment with another antibiotic, kitasamycin (Kit), which was uptake through Fe(3+)-hydroxamate transport, enhanced NOR killing of NOR-resistant E. tarda both in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, the combination of NOR, salicyl-AMS, and Kit had the highest efficacy in promoting the killing effects of NOR than any drug alone. Such synergistic effect not only confirmed in vitro and in vivo bacterial killing assays but also applicable to other clinic E. tarda isolates. Thus, our data suggest a proteomic-based approach to identify potential targets to enhance antibiotic killing and propose an alternative way to control infection of multidrug-resistant E. tarda.
PXD036966	37857609	Astragaloside IV derivative HHQ16 ameliorates infarction-induced hypertrophy and heart failure through degradation of lncRNA4012/9456. 	Identification of mouse lncRNA ENSMUST00000219456(GM32255) interacting proteins in HL-1 cardiomyocytes by pull-down assays coupled to MS	mouse lncRNA ENSMUST00000219456(GM32255)	Reversing ventricular remodeling represents a promising treatment for the post-myocardial infarction (MI) heart failure (HF). Here, we report a novel small molecule HHQ16, an optimized derivative of astragaloside IV, which effectively reversed infarction-induced myocardial remodeling and improved cardiac function by directly acting on the cardiomyocyte to reverse hypertrophy. The effect of HHQ16 was associated with a strong inhibition of a newly discovered Egr2-affiliated transcript lnc9456 in the heart. While minimally expressed in normal mouse heart, lnc9456 was dramatically upregulated in the heart subjected to left anterior descending coronary artery ligation (LADL) and in cardiomyocytes subjected to hypertrophic stimulation. The critical role of lnc9456 in cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was confirmed by specific overexpression and knockout in vitro. A physical interaction between lnc9456 and G3BP2 increased NF-kappaB nuclear translocation, triggering hypertrophy-related cascades. HHQ16 physically bound to lnc9456 with a high-affinity and induced its degradation. Cardiomyocyte-specific lnc9456 overexpression induced, but knockout prevented LADL-induced, cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction. HHQ16 reversed the effect of lnc9456 overexpression while lost its protective role when lnc9456 was deleted, further confirming lnc9456 as the bona fide target of HHQ16. We further identified the human ortholog of lnc9456, also an Egr2-affiliated transcript, lnc4012. Similarly, lnc4012 was significantly upregulated in hypertrophied failing hearts of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. HHQ16 also specifically bound to lnc4012 and caused its degradation and antagonized its hypertrophic effects. Targeted degradation of pathological increased lnc4012/lnc9456 by small molecules might serve as a novel promising strategy to regress infarction-induced cardiac hypertrophy and HF.
PXD038023	37858338	High-throughput chemogenetic drug screening reveals PKC-RhoA/PKN as a targetable signaling vulnerability in GNAQ-driven uveal melanoma. 	High throughput chemogenetic drug screening reveals therapeutic vulnerabilities in the signaling circuitries underlying GNAQ-mutant uveal melanoma	APMS, cancer, uveal melanoma	Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most prevalent cancer of the eye in adults, driven by activating mutation of GNAQ/GNA11; however, there are limited therapies against UM and metastatic UM (mUM). Here, we perform a high-throughput chemogenetic drug screen in GNAQ-mutant UM contrasted with BRAF-mutant cutaneous melanoma, defining the druggable landscape of these distinct melanoma subtypes. Across all compounds, darovasertib demonstrates the highest preferential activity against UM. Our investigation reveals that darovasertib potently inhibits PKC as well as PKN/PRK, an AGC kinase family that is part of the "dark kinome." We find that downstream of the Galphaq-RhoA signaling axis, PKN converges with ROCK to control FAK, a mediator of non-canonical Galphaq-driven signaling. Strikingly, darovasertib synergizes with FAK inhibitors to halt UM growth and promote cytotoxic cell death in vitro and in preclinical metastatic mouse models, thus exposing a signaling vulnerability that can be exploited as a multimodal precision therapy against mUM.
PXD045414	37858471	m(6)A demethylase FTO stabilizes LINK-A to exert oncogenic roles via MCM3-mediated cell-cycle progression and HIF-1alpha activation. 	m6A demethylase FTO stabilizes LINK-A to exert oncogenic roles via MCM3-mediated cell cycle progression and HIF-1alpha activation	Mass spectrometry data	RNA N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) modification is implicated in cancer progression, yet its role in regulating long noncoding RNAs during cancer progression remains unclear. Here, we report that the m(6)A demethylase fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) stabilizes long intergenic noncoding RNA for kinase activation (LINK-A) to promote cell proliferation and chemoresistance in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Mechanistically, LINK-A promotes the interaction between minichromosome maintenance complex component 3 (MCM3) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), increasing MCM3 phosphorylation. This phosphorylation facilitates the loading of the MCM complex onto chromatin, which promotes cell-cycle progression and subsequent cell proliferation. Moreover, LINK-A disrupts the interaction between MCM3 and hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha), abrogating MCM3-mediated HIF-1alpha transcriptional repression and promoting glycolysis and chemoresistance. These results elucidate the mechanism by which FTO-stabilized LINK-A plays oncogenic roles and identify the FTO/LINK-A/MCM3/HIF-1alpha axis as a promising therapeutic target for ESCC.
PXD045696	37858472	The histone chaperone ANP32B regulates chromatin incorporation of the atypical human histone variant macroH2A. 	ANP32B is a  macroh2A histone chaperone	ANP32B, histone chaperone, macroH2A	All vertebrate genomes encode for three large histone H2A variants that have an additional metabolite-binding globular macrodomain module, macroH2A. MacroH2A variants impact heterochromatin organization and transcription regulation and establish a barrier for cellular reprogramming. However, the mechanisms of how macroH2A is incorporated into chromatin and the identity of any chaperones required for histone deposition remain elusive. Here, we develop a split-GFP-based assay for chromatin incorporation and use it to conduct a genome-wide mutagenesis screen in haploid human cells to identify proteins that regulate macroH2A dynamics. We show that the histone chaperone ANP32B is a regulator of macroH2A deposition. ANP32B associates with macroH2A in cells and in vitro binds to histones with low nanomolar affinity. In vitro nucleosome assembly assays show that ANP32B stimulates deposition of macroH2A-H2B and not of H2A-H2B onto tetrasomes. In cells, depletion of ANP32B strongly affects global macroH2A chromatin incorporation, revealing ANP32B as a macroH2A histone chaperone.
PXD041119	37858678	O-GlcNAc has crosstalk with ADP-ribosylation via PARG. 	O-GlcNAc crosstalks with ADP-ribosylation via PARG	O-GlcNAcylation, PARG, c-Myc, hepatocellular carcinoma, poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation	O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) glycosylation, a prevalent protein post-translational modification (PTM) that occurs intracellularly, has been shown to crosstalk with phosphorylation and ubiquitination. However, it is unclear whether it interplays with other PTMs. Here we studied its relationship with ADP-ribosylation, which involves decorating target proteins with the ADP-ribose moiety. We discovered that the poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation "eraser", ADP-ribose glycohydrolase (PARG), is O-GlcNAcylated at Ser26, which is in close proximity to its nuclear localization signal. O-GlcNAcylation of PARG promotes nuclear localization and chromatin association. Upon DNA damage, O-GlcNAcylation augments the recruitment of PARG to DNA damage sites and interacting with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). In hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, PARG O-GlcNAcylation enhances the poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation of DNA damage-binding protein 1 (DDB1) and attenuates its auto-ubiquitination, thereby stabilizing DDB1 and allowing it to degrade its downstream targets, such as c-Myc. We further demonstrated that PARG-S26A, the O-GlcNAc-deficient mutant, promoted HCC in mouse xenograft models. Our findings thus reveal that PARG O-GlcNAcylation inhibits HCC, and we propose that O-GlcNAc glycosylation may crosstalk with many other PTMs.
PXD042415	37861757	In search of new stratification strategies: tissue proteomic profiling of papillary thyroid microcarcinoma in patients with localized disease and lateral neck metastases. 	Prognostic significance of the proteome profile of well differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma	metastasis, papillary thyroid carcinoma	INTRODUCTION: Papillary thyroid carcinomas (PTC) are the most common thyroid malignancies that are often diagnosed as microcarcinomas when the tumor is less than one centimetre in diameter. Currently, there are no valid stratification strategies that would reliably assess the risk of lateral neck metastases and optimize surgical treatment. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Aiming to find potential tissue biomarkers of metastatic potential, we conducted a cross-sectional proteomic pilot study on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues of metastatic (N = 10) and non-metastatic (N = 10) papillary thyroid microcarcinoma patients. Samples were analysed individually using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, and the differentially expressed proteins (DEP) were functionally annotated. RESULTS: We identified five overexpressed DEPs in the metastatic group (EPB41L2, CSE1L, GLIPR2, FGA and FGG) with a known association to tumour biology. Using bioinformatic-based tools, we found markedly different profiles of significantly enriched biological processes between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS: The identified DEPs might have a role as potential tissue biomarkers for PTC metastases. However, further prospective research is needed to confirm our findings.
PXD040196	37862385	Quantitative mapping of the in vivo O-GalNAc glycoproteome in mouse tissues identifies GalNAc-T2 O-glycosites in metabolic disorder. 	Quantitative Mapping of the in vivo O-GalNAc Glycoproteome in Mouse Tissues	O-GalNAc, glycoproteome, mouse tissues, site-specific	The family of GalNAc-Ts (GalNAcpolypeptide:N-Acetylgalactosaminyl transferases) catalyzes the first committed step in the synthesis of O-glycans, which is an abundant and biologically important protein modification. Abnormalities in the activity of individual GalNAc-Ts can result in congenital disorders of O-glycosylation (CDG) and influence a broad array of biological functions. How site-specific O-glycans regulate biology is unclear. Compiling in vivo O-glycosites would be an invaluable step in determining the function of site-specific O-glycans. We integrated chemical and enzymatic conditions that cleave O-glycosites, a higher-energy dissociation product ions-triggered electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation mass spectrometry (MS) workflow and software to study nine mouse tissues and whole blood. We identified 2,154 O-glycosites from 595 glycoproteins. The O-glycosites and glycoproteins displayed consensus motifs and shared functions as classified by Gene Ontology terms. Limited overlap of O-glycosites was observed with protein O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation sites. Quantitative glycoproteomics and proteomics revealed a tissue-specific regulation of O-glycosites that the differential expression of Galnt isoenzymes in tissues partly contributes to. We examined the Galnt2-null mouse model, which phenocopies congenital disorder of glycosylation involving GALNT2 and revealed a network of glycoproteins that lack GalNAc-T2-specific O-glycans. The known direct and indirect functions of these glycoproteins appear consistent with the complex metabolic phenotypes observed in the Galnt2-null animals. Through this study and interrogation of databases and the literature, we have compiled an atlas of experimentally identified mouse O-glycosites consisting of 2,925 O-glycosites from 758 glycoproteins.
PXD045732	37862779	Unveiling the peptidome diversity of Lachesismuta snake venom: Discovery of novel fragments of metalloproteinase, l-amino acid oxidase, and bradykinin potentiating peptides. 	Lachesis muta snake venom peptidome	Lachesis muta, bradykinin potentiating peptides, peptidomics, snake venom, snake venom metalloproteinases	Snake venoms are known to be major sources of peptides with different pharmacological properties. In this study, we comprehensively explored the venom peptidomes of three specimens of Lachesismuta, the largest venomous snake in South America, using mass spectrometry techniques. The analysis revealed 19 main chromatographic peaks common to all specimens. A total of 151 peptides were identified, including 69 from a metalloproteinase, 58 from the BPP-CNP precursor, and 24 from a l-amino acid oxidase. To our knowledge, 126 of these peptides were reported for the first time in this work, including a new SVMP-derived peptide fragment, Lm-10a. Our findings highlight the dynamic nature of toxin maturation in snake venoms, driven by proteolytic processing, post-translational modifications, and cryptide formation.
PXD031296	37863319	Biochemical Deconstruction and Reconstruction of Nuclear Matrix Reveals the Layers of Nuclear Organization. 	Subfractionation of Nuclear Matrix (NuMat)	Drosophila melanogaster, Nuclear matrix, nuclear organization	Nuclear matrix (NuMat) is the fraction of the eukaryotic nucleus insoluble to detergents and high-salt extractions that manifests as a pan-nuclear fiber-granule network. NuMat consists of ribonucleoprotein complexes, members of crucial nuclear functional modules, and DNA fragments. Although NuMat captures the organization of nonchromatin nuclear space, very little is known about components organization within NuMat. To understand the organization of NuMat components, we subfractionated it with increasing concentrations of the chaotrope guanidinium hydrochloride (GdnHCl) and analyzed the proteomic makeup of the fractions. We observe that the solubilization of proteins at different concentrations of GdnHCl is finite and independent of the broad biophysical properties of the protein sequences. Looking at the extraction pattern of the nuclear envelope and nuclear pore complex, we surmise that this fractionation represents easily solubilized/loosely bound and difficultly solubilized/tightly bound components of NuMat. Microscopic analyses of the localization of key NuMat proteins across sequential GdnHCl extractions of in situ NuMat further elaborate on the divergent extraction patterns. Furthermore, we solubilized NuMat in 8M GdnHCl and upon removal of GdnHCl through dialysis, en masse renaturation leads to RNA-dependent self-assembly of fibrous structures. The major proteome component of the self-assembled fibers comes from the difficultly solubilized, tightly bound component. This fractionation of the NuMat reveals different organizational levels within it which may reflect the structural and functional organization of nuclear architecture.
PXD041878	37863410	Protein interaction network revealed by quantitative proteomic analysis links TFIIB to multiple aspects of the transcription cycle. 	Protein interaction network revealed by quantitative proteomic analysis elucidates TFIIB role in multiple aspects of the transcription cycle	Budding Yeast, Proteomic Analyses, RNA polymerase II, TFIIB, Transcription	Although TFIIB is widely regarded as an initiation factor, recent reports have implicated it in multiple aspects of eukaryotic transcription. To investigate the broader role of TFIIB in transcription, we performed quantitative proteomic analysis of yeast TFIIB. We purified two different populations of TFIIB; one from soluble cell lysate, which is not engaged in transcription, and the other from the chromatin fraction which yields the transcriptionally active form of the protein. TFIIB purified from the chromatin exhibits several interactions that explain its non-canonical roles in transcription. RNAPII, TFIIF and TFIIH were the only components of the preinitiation complex with a significant presence in chromatin TFIIB. A notable feature was enrichment of all subunits of CF1 and Rat1 3' end processing-termination complexes in chromatin-TFIIB preparation. Subunits of the CPF termination complex were also detected in both chromatin and soluble derived TFIIB preparations. These results may explain the presence of TFIIB at the 3' end of genes during transcription as well as its role in promoter-termination interaction.
PXD040963	37864211	Extracellular vesicles of the probiotic bacteria E. coli O83 activate innate immunity and prevent allergy in mice. 	lExtracellular vesicle proteins of E. coli O83	E. coli, Extracellular vesicles, label-free	BACKGROUND: E. coli O83 (Colinfant Newborn) is a Gram-negative (G-) probiotic bacterium used in the clinic. When administered orally, it reduces allergic sensitisation but not allergic asthma. Intranasal administration offers a non-invasive and convenient delivery method. This route bypasses the gastrointestinal tract and provides direct access to the airways, which are the target of asthma prevention. G- bacteria such as E. coli O83 release outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) to communicate with the environment. Here we investigate whether intranasally administered E. coli O83 OMVs (EcO83-OMVs) can reduce allergic airway inflammation in mice. METHODS: EcO83-OMVs were isolated by ultracentrifugation and characterised their number, morphology (shape and size), composition (proteins and lipopolysaccharide; LPS), recognition by innate receptors (using transfected HEK293 cells) and immunomodulatory potential (in naive splenocytes and bone marrow-derived dendritic cells; BMDCs). Their allergy-preventive effect was investigated in a mouse model of ovalbumin-induced allergic airway inflammation. RESULTS: EcO83-OMVs are spherical nanoparticles with a size of about 110 nm. They contain LPS and protein cargo. We identified a total of 1120 proteins, 136 of which were enriched in OMVs compared to parent bacteria. Proteins from the flagellum dominated. OMVs activated the pattern recognition receptors TLR2/4/5 as well as NOD1 and NOD2. EcO83-OMVs induced the production of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in splenocytes and BMDCs. Intranasal administration of EcO83-OMVs inhibited airway hyperresponsiveness, and decreased airway eosinophilia, Th2 cytokine production and mucus secretion. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate for the first time that intranasally administered OMVs from probiotic G- bacteria have an anti-allergic effect. Our study highlights the advantages of OMVs as a safe platform for the prophylactic treatment of allergy. Video Abstract.
PXD036588	37864628	Quantitative Proteomics Characterization of the Effect and Mechanism of Trichostatin A on the Hippocampus of Type II Diabetic Mice. 	Quantitative proteomics characterization on the effect and mechanism of trichostatin A on hippocampus of type II diabetic mice	Trichostatin A, cognitive function, diabetic encephalopathy, drug screening	Diabetic encephalopathy (DE) is one of the complications of diabetes mellitus with mild-to-moderate cognitive impairment. Trichostatin A (TSA) has been revealed to show protective effect on central nervous systems in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. However, the effect and molecular mechanism of TSA on cognitive function of DE are unknown. Here, we demonstrated that cognitive function was damaged in diabetic mice versus normal mice and treatment with TSA improved cognitive function in diabetic mice. Proteomic analysis of the hippocampus revealed 174 differentially expressed proteins in diabetic mice compared with normal mice. TSA treatment reversed the expression levels of 111 differentially expressed proteins grouped into functional clusters, including the longevity regulating pathway, the insulin signaling pathway, peroxisomes, protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum, and ribosomes. Furthermore, protein-protein interaction network analysis of TSA-reversed proteins revealed that UBA52, CAT, RPL29, RPL35A, CANX, RPL37, and PRKAA2 were the main hub proteins. Multiple KEGG pathway-enriched CAT and PRKAA2 levels were significantly decreased in the hippocampus of diabetic mice versus normal mice, which was reversed by TSA administration. Finally, screening for potential similar or ancillary drugs for TSA treatment indicated that HDAC inhibitors ISOX, apicidin, and panobinostat were the most promising similar drugs, and the PI3K inhibitor GSK-1059615, the Aurora kinase inhibitor alisertib, and the nucleophosmin inhibitor avrainvillamide-analog-6 were the most promising ancillary drugs. In conclusion, our study revealed that CAT and PRKAA2 were the key proteins involved in the improvement of DE after TSA treatment. ISOX, apicidin, and panobinostat were promising similar drugs and that GSK-1059615, alisertib, and avrainvillamide-analog-6 were promising ancillary drugs to TSA in the treatment of DE.
PXD044507	37864796	Virus-induced lncRNA-BTX allows viral replication by regulating intracellular translocation of DHX9 and ILF3 to induce innate escape. 	Virus-induced lncRNA-BTX allows viral replication by regulating intracellular translocation of DHX9 and ILF3 to induce innate escape	DHX9, ILF3, lncRNA-BTX	The roles of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) and RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in antiviral innate response warrant further investigation. Here, we identify an lncRNA, termed lncRNA-BTX (between Tbk1 and Xpot), which is upregulated upon viral infection via an IRF3-type I interferon-independent pathway, promoting viral innate immune escape. Deletion of lncRNA-BTX in cells or mice significantly reduces viral load in vitro or in vivo, respectively. Mechanistically, lncRNA-BTX strengthens the interactions between DHX9 or ILF3 (two RBPs that have opposite functions in regulating the replication of RNA virus) and their respective partner, JMJD6 or ILF2, which regulates intracellular translocations of DHX9 and ILF3 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Put simply, lncRNA-BTX facilitates DHX9's return to the cytoplasm and retains ILF3 within the nucleus, promoting viral replication. This work unveils a strategy developed by the virus to bypass host innate immunity, thus providing a potential target for antiviral therapeutics.
PXD036885	37865089	De novo protein identification in mammalian sperm using in situ cryoelectron tomography and AlphaFold2 docking. 	De novo protein identification in mammalian sperm using high-resolution in situ cryo-electron tomography	Global protein abundance, in situ cryoET, mouse sperm axoneme, sperm flagella, visual proteomics	To understand the molecular mechanisms of cellular pathways, contemporary workflows typically require multiple techniques to identify proteins, track their localization, and determine their structures in vitro. Here, we combined cellular cryoelectron tomography (cryo-ET) and AlphaFold2 modeling to address these questions and understand how mammalian sperm are built in situ. Our cellular cryo-ET and subtomogram averaging provided 6.0-Aa reconstructions of axonemal microtubule structures. The well-resolved tertiary structures allowed us to unbiasedly match sperm-specific densities with 21,615 AlphaFold2-predicted protein models of the mouse proteome. We identified Tektin 5, CCDC105, and SPACA9 as novel microtubule-associated proteins. These proteins form an extensive interaction network crosslinking the lumen of axonemal doublet microtubules, suggesting their roles in modulating the mechanical properties of the filaments. Indeed, Tekt5 -/- sperm possess more deformed flagella with 180degrees bends. Together, our studies presented a cellular visual proteomics workflow and shed light on the in vivo functions of Tektin 5.
PXD045953	37865636	Ultra-high-throughput mapping of the chemical space of asymmetric catalysis enables accelerated reaction discovery. 	Ultra-High-Throughput Mapping of the Chemical Space of Asymmetric Catalysis Enables Accelerated Reaction Discovery	Rapid chiral analysis, Ultra-High-Throughput Screening	The discovery of highly enantioselective catalysts and elucidating their generality face great challenges due to the complex multidimensional chemical space of asymmetric catalysis and inefficient screening methods. Here, we develop a general strategy for ultra-high-throughput mapping of the chemical space of asymmetric catalysis by escaping the time-consuming chiral chromatography separation. The ultrafast ( ~ 1000 reactions/day) and accurate (median error < +/-1%) analysis of enantiomeric excess are achieved through the ion mobility-mass spectrometry combines with the diastereoisomerization strategy. A workflow for accelerated asymmetric reaction screening is established and verified by mapping the large-scale chemical space of more than 1600 reactions of alpha-asymmetric alkylation of aldehyde with organocatalysis and photocatalysis. Importantly, a class of high-enantioselectivity primary amine organocatalysts of 1,2-diphenylethane-1,2-diamine-based sulfonamides is discovered by the accelerated screening, and the mechanism for high-selectivity is demonstrated by computational chemistry. This study provides a practical and robust solution for large-scale screening and discovery of asymmetric reactions.
PXD044599	37866445	OsGSTU34, a Bz2-like anthocyanin-related glutathione transferase transporter, is essential for rice (Oryza sativa L.) organs coloration. 	TMT Labeling proteomic analysis of wild and mutant of OsGSTU34 transporter in black rice caryopsis	Oryza sativa, anthocyanin, black rice, proteomic analysis	Anthocyanins are a flavonoid compound known as one of the most important chromogenic substances. They play several functions, including health promotion and sustaining plants during adverse conditions. They are synthesized at the endoplasmic reticulum and sequestered in the vacuole. In this work, we generated knock-out lines of OsGSTU34, a glutathione transporter's tau gene family, with no transgene line and off-target through CRISPR/Cas9 mutagenesis and highlighted the loss of pigmentation in rice flowers, leaves, stems, shoots, and caryopsis. The anthocyanin quantification in the wild-type BLWT and mutant line BLG34-8 caryopsis showed that cyanidin-3-O-glucoside (C3G) and peonidin-3-O-glucoside (P3G) were almost undetectable in the mutant line. A tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling proteomic analysis was conducted to elucidate the proteomic changes in the BLWT and BLG34-8. The result revealed that 1175 proteins were altered, including 408 that were down-regulated and 767 that were upregulated. The accumulation of the OsGSTU34-related protein (Q8L576), along with several anthocyanin-related proteins, was down-regulated. The enrichment analysis showed that the down-regulated proteins were enriched in different pathways, among which the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway, flavonoid biosynthesis metabolites, and anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway. Protein interaction network prediction revealed that glutathione-S-transferase (Q8L576) was connected to the proteins involved in the flavonoid and anthocyanin biosynthesis pathways, such as flavanone 3-dioxygenase 1 (Q7XM21), leucoanthocyanidin dioxygenase 1 (Q93VC3), 4-coumarate-CoA ligase 2 (Q42982), phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (P14717), chalcone synthase 1 (Q2R3A1), and 4-coumarate-CoA ligase 5 (Q6ZAC1). However, the expression of the most important anthocyanin biosynthesis gene was not altered, suggesting that only the transport mechanism was affected. Our findings highlight new insight into the anthocyanin pigmentation in black rice and provide new perspectives for future research.
PXD037785	37866481	Proteomics, Transcriptomics, and Phosphoproteomics Reveal the Mechanism of Talaroconvolutin-A Suppressing Bladder Cancer via Blocking Cell Cycle and Triggering Ferroptosis. 	Talaroconvolutin-A treated bladder cancer for proteomics sequencing	Bladder cancer, Talaroconvolutin-A, cell cycle, ferroptosis, phosphoproteomics, transcriptomics	Talaroconvolutin-A (TalaA) is a compound from the endophytic fungus T. convolutispora of the Chinese herbal medicine Panax notoginseng. Whether TalaA exerts anticancer activity in bladder cancer remains unknown. Using CCK8 assay, EdU staining, crystal violet staining, flow cytometry, living/dead cell staining, and Western blotting, we studied the anticancer activity of TalaA in vitro. Moreover, we performed xenograft tumor implantation. The antitumor effects were evaluated through H&E and immunohistochemistry staining. Proteomics was conducted to detect changes in the protein profile; transcriptomics was performed to detect changes in mRNA abundance; phosphoproteomics was used to detect changes in protein phosphorylation. TalaA inhibited tumor cell proliferation, DNA replication, and colony formation in a dose-dependent manner in bladder cancer cells. The IC50 values of TalaA on SW780 and UM-UC-3 cells were 5.7 and 8.2 muM, respectively. TalaA (6.0 mg/kg) significantly repressed the growth of xenografted tumors and did not affect the body weight nor cause obvious hepatorenal toxicity. TalaA arrested the cell cycle by downregulating cyclinA2, cyclinB1, and AURKB and upregulating p21/CIP. TalaA also elevated intracellular reactive oxygen species and upregulated transferrin and heme oxygenase 1 to induce ferroptosis. Moreover, TalaA was able to bind to MAPKs (MAPK1, MAPK8, and MAPK14) to inhibit the phosphorylation of *SP* motif of transcription regulators. This study revealed that TalaA inhibited bladder cancer by arresting cell cycle to suppress proliferation and triggering ferroptosis to cause cell death. Conclusively, TalaA would be a potential candidate for treating bladder cancer by targeting MAPKs, suppressing the cell cycle, and inducing ferroptosis.
PXD043904	37866880	Cancer-associated FBXW7 loss is synthetic lethal with pharmacological targeting of CDC7. 	Cancer-associated FBXW7 loss is synthetic lethal with pharmacological targeting of CDC	CDC, FBXW7, synthetic lethal	The F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7 (FBXW7) tumour suppressor gene encodes a substrate-recognition subunit of Skp, cullin, F-box (SCF)-containing complexes. The tumour-suppressive role of FBXW7 is ascribed to its ability to drive ubiquitination and degradation of oncoproteins. Despite this molecular understanding, therapeutic approaches that target defective FBXW7 have not been identified. Using genome-wide clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-Cas9 screens, focussed RNA-interference screens and whole and phospho-proteome mass spectrometry profiling in multiple FBXW7 wild-type and defective isogenic cell lines, we identified a number of FBXW7 synthetic lethal targets, including proteins involved in the response to replication fork stress and proteins involved in replication origin firing, such as cell division cycle 7-related protein kinase (CDC7) and its substrate, DNA replication complex GINS protein SLD5 (GINS4). The CDC7 synthetic lethal effect was confirmed using small-molecule inhibitors. Mechanistically, FBXW7/CDC7 synthetic lethality is dependent upon the replication factor telomere-associated protein RIF1 (RIF1), with RIF1 silencing reversing the FBXW7-selective effects of CDC7 inhibition. The delineation of FBXW7 synthetic lethal effects we describe here could serve as the starting point for subsequent drug discovery and/or development in this area.
PXD043781	37867237	Targeting USP8 Inhibits O-GlcNAcylation of SLC7A11 to Promote Ferroptosis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma via Stabilization of OGT. 	Targeting USP8 inhibits O-GlcNAcylation of SLC7A11 to promote ferroptosis of hepatocellular carcinoma via stabilization of OGT	OGT, USP8, liver cancer	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a lethal and aggressive human malignancy. The present study examins the anti-tumor effects of deubiquitylating enzymes (DUB) inhibitors in HCC. It is found that the inhibitor of ubiquitin specific peptidase 8 (USP8) and DUB-IN-3 shows the most effective anti-cancer responses. Targeting USP8 inhibits the proliferation of HCC and induces cell ferroptosis. In vivo xenograft and metastasis experiments indicate that inhibition of USP8 suppresses tumor growth and lung metastasis. DUB-IN-3 treatment or USP8 depletion decrease intracellular cystine levels and glutathione biosynthesis while increasing the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Mechanistical studies reveal that USP8 stabilizes O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) via inhibiting K48-specific poly-ubiquitination process on OGT protein at K117 site, and STE20-like kinase (SLK)-mediated S716 phosphorylation of USP8 is required for the interaction with OGT. Most importantly, OGT O-GlcNAcylates solute carrier family 7, member 11 (SLC7A11) at Ser26 in HCC cells, which is essential for SLC7A11 to import the cystine from the extracellular environment. Collectively, this study demonstrates that pharmacological inhibition or knockout of USP8 can inhibit the progression of HCC and induce ferroptosis via decreasing the stability of OGT, which imposes a great challenge that targeting of USP8 is a potential approach for HCC treatment.
PXD044462	37868317	Impact of mutations on the plant-based production of recombinant SARS-CoV-2 RBDs. 	Impact of mutations on the plant-based production of recombinant SARS-CoV-2 RBD	Nicotiana benthamiana, antigen, glycoprotein, glycosylation, spike protein, vaccine, virus	Subunit vaccines based on recombinant viral antigens are valuable interventions to fight existing and evolving viruses and can be produced at large-scale in plant-based expression systems. The recombinant viral antigens are often derived from glycosylated envelope proteins of the virus and glycosylation plays an important role for the immunogenicity by shielding protein epitopes. The receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the SARS-CoV-2 spike is a principal target for vaccine development and has been produced in plants, but the yields of recombinant RBD variants were low and the role of the N-glycosylation in RBD from different SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern is less studied. Here, we investigated the expression and glycosylation of six different RBD variants transiently expressed in leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana. All of the purified RBD variants were functional in terms of receptor binding and displayed almost full N-glycan occupancy at both glycosylation sites with predominately complex N-glycans. Despite the high structural sequence conservation of the RBD variants, we detected a variation in yield which can be attributed to lower expression and differences in unintentional proteolytic processing of the C-terminal polyhistidine tag used for purification. Glycoengineering towards a human-type complex N-glycan profile with core alpha1,6-fucose, showed that the reactivity of the neutralizing antibody S309 differs depending on the N-glycan profile and the RBD variant.
PXD039734	37869662	Loaded delta-hemolysin shapes the properties of Staphylococcus aureus membrane vesicles. 	4D label free proteomics of membrane vesicles of RN4220 and the mutants RN4220-Hld and RN4220-agrA	Membrane vesicles, RN4220, RN4220-Hld, RN4220-agrA, Staphylococcus aureus	Background: Membrane vesicles (MVs) are nanoscale vesicular structures produced by bacteria during their growth in vitro and in vivo. Some bacterial components can be loaded in bacterial MVs, but the roles of the loaded MV molecules are unclear. Methods: MVs of Staphylococcus aureus RN4220 and its derivatives were prepared. Dynamic light scattering analysis was used to evaluate the size distribution, and 4D-label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis was performed to detect protein composition in the MVs. The site-mutation S. aureus RN4220-Deltahld and agrA deletion mutant RN4220-DeltaagrA were generated via allelic replacement strategies. A hemolysis assay was performed with rabbit red blood cells. CCK-8 and lactate dehydrogenase release assays were used to determine the cytotoxicity of S. aureus MVs against RAW264.7 macrophages. The serum levels of inflammatory factors such as IL-6, IL-1beta, and TNFalpha in mice treated with S. aureus MVs were detected with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit. Results: Delta-hemolysin (Hld) was identified as a major loaded factor in S. aureus MVs. Further study showed that Hld could promote the production of staphylococcal MVs with smaller sizes. Loaded Hld affected the diversity of loaded proteins in MVs of S. aureus RN4220. Hld resulted in decreased protein diversity in MVs of S. aureus. Site-mutation (RN4220-Deltahld) and agrA deletion (RN4220-DeltaagrA) mutants produced MVs (DeltahldMVs and DeltaagrAMVs) with a greater number of bacterial proteins than those derived from wild-type RN4220 ((wt)MVs). Moreover, Hld contributed to the hemolytic activity of (wt)MVs. Hld-loaded (wt)MVs were cytotoxic to macrophage RAW264.7 cells and could stimulate the production of inflammatory factor IL-6 in vivo. Conclusion: This study presented that Hld was a major loaded factor in S. aureus MVs, and the loaded Hld played vital roles in the MV-property modification.
PXD045758	37869664	HMGN2 and Histone H1.2: potential targets of a novel probiotic mixture for seasonal allergic rhinitis. 	TMTs-based quantitative proteomic reveals the potential targets of a novel probiotic mixture on seasonal allergic rhinitis	Allergic rhinitis, Probiotics, Randomized placebo-controlled trial	Background: Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common nasal inflammatory disorder that severely affects an individual's quality of life (QoL) and poses a heavy financial burden. In addition to routine treatments, probiotic intervention has emerged as a promising strategy for preventing and alleviating allergic diseases. The main objective of this study was to determine the effect of a novel multi-strain probiotic mixture on AR symptoms and investigate potential targets underlying the probiotic intervention. Methods: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study was conducted on AR patients who were allergic to autumnal pollens (n = 31). Placebo or a novel probiotic mixture, composed of Lactobacillus rhamnosus (L. rhamnosus) HN001, L. acidophilus NCFM, Bifidobacterium lactis (B. lactis) Bi-07, L. paracasei LPC-37, and L. reuteri LE16, was administered after 2 months. The therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by a symptom assessment scale. Before and during the pollen season, blood samples were collected, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated for further tandem mass tags (TMTs)-based quantitative proteomic analyses. Potential targets and underlying pathological pathways were explored using bioinformatics methods. Results: During the pollen season, the rhinoconjunctivitis symptom score of participants who were administered probiotics (probiotic group, n = 15) was significantly lower than those administered placebo (placebo group, n = 15) (P = 0.037). The proteomic analyses identified 60 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the placebo group, and subsequent enrichment analyses enriched a series of pathways and biological processes, including signaling pathways of inflammation, coagulation cascade, lipid, carbohydrate and amino acid metabolic pathways, and transcription and translation processes. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression extracted five main elements, namely, GSTO1, ATP2A2, MCM7, PROS1, and TRIM58, as signature proteins. A total of 17 DEPs were identified in the probiotic group, and there was no pathway enriched. Comparison of DEPs in the two groups revealed that the expression levels of the high-mobility group nucleosome-binding domain-containing protein 2 (HMGN2) and Histone H1.2 presented an opposite trend with different interventions. Conclusion: Our data showed that AR symptoms alleviated after treatment with the novel multi-strain probiotic mixture, and the proteomic analyses suggested that HMGN2 and Histone H1.2 might be targets of probiotic intervention for seasonal AR.
PXD045456	37870259	SIRT2 negatively regulates the cGAS-STING pathway by deacetylating G3BP1. 	SIRT2 interactomics in HeLa cells	SIRT2	SIRT2, a cytoplasmic member of the Sirtuin family, has important roles in immunity and inflammation. However, its function in regulating the response to DNA virus infection remains elusive. Here, we find that SIRT2 is a unique regulator among the Sirtuin family that negatively modulates the cGAS-STING-signaling pathway. SIRT2 is down-regulated after Herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) infection, and SIRT2 deficiency markedly elevates the expression levels of type I interferon (IFN). SIRT2 inhibits the DNA binding ability and droplet formation of cGAS by interacting with and deacetylating G3BP1 at K257, K276, and K376, leading to the disassembly of the cGAS-G3BP1 complex, which is critical for cGAS activation. Administration of AGK2, a selective SIRT2 inhibitor, protects mice from HSV-1 infection and increases the expression of IFN and IFN-stimulated genes. Our study shows that SIRT2 negatively regulates cGAS activation through G3BP1 deacetylation, suggesting a potential antiviral strategy by modulating SIRT2 activity.
PXD036100	37870288	Wnt/beta-catenin and NFkappaB signaling synergize to trigger growth-factor-free regeneration of adult primary human hepatocytes. 	Wnt/beta-catenin and NFB signaling synergize to trigger growth-factor-free regeneration of adult primary human hepatocytes	3D culture., Liver regeneration, Wnt/beta-catenin, growth factors, priming	BACKGROUND AIMS: The liver has a remarkable capacity to regenerate, which is sustained by the ability of hepatocytes to act as facultative stem cells that, while normally quiescent, re-enter the cell cycle after injury. Growth factor signaling is indispensable in rodents, whereas Wnt/beta-catenin is not required for effective tissue repair. However, the molecular networks that control human liver regeneration remain unclear. METHODS: Organotypic 3D spheroid cultures of primary human or murine hepatocytes were used to identify the signaling network underlying cell cycle re-entry. Furthermore, we performed chemogenomic screening of a library enriched for epigenetic regulators and modulators of immune function to determine the importance of epigenomic control for human hepatocyte regeneration. RESULTS: Our results showed that, unlike in rodents, activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is the major mitogenic cue for adult primary human hepatocytes. Furthermore, we identified TGFbeta inhibition and inflammatory signaling via NF-kappaB as essential steps for the quiescent-to-regenerative switch that allows Wnt/beta-catenin-induced proliferation of human cells. In contrast, growth factors, but not Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, triggered hyperplasia in murine hepatocytes. High-throughput screening in a human model confirmed the relevance of NFkappaB and revealed the critical roles of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), as well as of the bromodomain families I, II, and IV. CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed a network of NFkappaB, TGFbeta, and Wnt/beta-catenin that controls human hepatocyte regeneration in the absence of exogenous growth factors, identified novel regulators of hepatocyte proliferation, and highlighted the potential of organotypic culture systems for chemogenomic interrogation of complex physiological processes.
PXD044781	37870390	A stationary phase with a positively charged surface allows for minimizing formic acid concentration in the mobile phase, enhancing electrospray ionization in LC-MS proteomic experiments. 	Effect of lower formic acid concentration in the mobile phase in LC-MS proteomic experiments	CSH, detection sensitivity, formic acid, separation performance	The default choice of mobile phase acidifier for bottom-up LC-MS proteomic analyses is 0.10% formic acid because of its decent acidity, decent ion pairing ability, and low suppression of electrospray ionization. In recent years, state-of-the-art columns have been designed specifically to provide efficient separation even when using an MS-friendly mobile phase of low ionic strength. Despite this, no attempts have been made to improve the sensitivity of the MS-based analytical methods by reducing the amount of formic acid in the mobile phase. In this study, we evaluated the effect of reduced formic acid concentration in the mobile phase on the chromatographic behavior and MS response of peptides when separated using columns packed with a C18 stationary phase with a positively charged surface. Using 0.01% formic acid in the mobile phase maintained excellent chromatographic performance and increased MS signal response compared to the standard of 0.10%. The enhanced MS response translated to about 50% improved peptide identifications depending on the complexity and amount of sample injected. The increased retention of peptides at a reduced formic acid concentration was directly proportional to the number of acidic residues in the peptide sequence. The study was carried out by covering a spectrum of protein samples with varied complexity using analytical flow, micro-, and nanoflow regimes to expand the applicability in routine practice.
PXD044767	37872146	How myosin VI traps its off-state, is activated and dimerizes. 	How Myosin VI Traps its Off-State, is Activated and Dimerizes	CLMS, Myosin VI, cross linking mass spectromety	Myosin VI (Myo6) is the only minus-end directed nanomotor on actin, allowing it to uniquely contribute to numerous cellular functions. As for other nanomotors, the proper functioning of Myo6 relies on precise spatiotemporal control of motor activity via a poorly defined off-state and interactions with partners. Our structural, functional, and cellular studies reveal key features of myosin regulation and indicate that not all partners can activate Myo6. TOM1 and Dab2 cannot bind the off-state, while GIPC1 binds Myo6, releases its auto-inhibition and triggers proximal dimerization. Myo6 partners thus differentially recruit Myo6. We solved a crystal structure of the proximal dimerization domain, and show that its disruption compromises endocytosis in HeLa cells, emphasizing the importance of Myo6 dimerization. Finally, we show that the L926Q deafness mutation disrupts Myo6 auto-inhibition and indirectly impairs proximal dimerization. Our study thus demonstrates the importance of partners in the control of Myo6 auto-inhibition, localization, and activation.
PXD045948	37872170	The liver microenvironment orchestrates FGL1-mediated immune escape and progression of metastatic colorectal cancer. 	FGL1 IP-MS data in 293T cell lysates	Coculture with tumor-associated macrophages, FGL1, Immunoprecipitation	Colorectal cancer (CRC) patients with liver metastases usually obtain less benefit from immunotherapy, and the underlying mechanisms remain understudied. Here, we identify that fibrinogen-like protein 1 (FGL1), secreted from cancer cells and hepatocytes, facilitates the progression of CRC in an intraportal injection model by reducing the infiltration of T cells. Mechanistically, tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) activate NF-kB by secreting TNFalpha/IL-1beta in the liver microenvironment and transcriptionally upregulate OTU deubiquitinase 1 (OTUD1) expression, which enhances FGL1 stability via deubiquitination. Disrupting the TAM-OTUD1-FGL1 axis inhibits metastatic tumor progression and synergizes with immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy. Clinically, high plasma FGL1 levels predict poor outcomes and reduced ICB therapy benefits. Benzethonium chloride, an FDA-approved antiseptics, curbs FGL1 secretion, thereby inhibiting liver metastatic tumor growth. Overall, this study uncovers the critical roles and posttranslational regulatory mechanism of FGL1 in promoting metastatic tumor progression, highlighting the TAM-OTUD1-FGL1 axis as a potential target for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD040556	37872238	The mitochondrial fusion protein OPA1 is dispensable in the liver and its absence induces mitohormesis to protect liver from drug-induced injury. 	The mitochondrial fusion protein OPA1 is dispensable in the live	liver, mitochondria	Mitochondria are critical for metabolic homeostasis of the liver, and their dysfunction is a major cause of liver diseases. Optic atrophy 1 (OPA1) is a mitochondrial fusion protein with a role in cristae shaping. Disruption of OPA1 causes mitochondrial dysfunction. However, the role of OPA1 in liver function is poorly understood. In this study, we delete OPA1 in the fully developed liver of male mice. Unexpectedly, OPA1 liver knockout (LKO) mice are healthy with unaffected mitochondrial respiration, despite disrupted cristae morphology. OPA1 LKO induces a stress response that establishes a new homeostatic state for sustained liver function. Our data show that OPA1 is required for proper complex V assembly and that OPA1 LKO protects the liver from drug toxicity. Mechanistically, OPA1 LKO decreases toxic drug metabolism and confers resistance to the mitochondrial permeability transition. This study demonstrates that OPA1 is dispensable in the liver, and that the mitohormesis induced by OPA1 LKO prevents liver injury and contributes to liver resiliency.
PXD044387	37873870	Comparison of the Proteomes and Phosphoproteomes of S. cerevisiae Cells Harvested with Different Strategies. 	Comparison of the proteome and of the phosphoproteome of S. cerevisiae cells harvested with different strategies	TMTpro, phosphoproteome analysis, proteome analysis, stress	The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a powerful model system that is widely used to investigate many cellular processes. The harvesting of yeast cells is the first step in almost every experimental procedure. Here, yeast cells are isolated from their growth medium, collected, and used for successive experiments or analysis. The two most common methods to harvest S. cerevisiae are centrifugation and filtration. Understanding if and how centrifugation and filtration affect yeast physiology is essential with respect to downstream data interpretation. Here, we profile and compare the proteomes and the phosphoproteomes, using isobaric label-based quantitative mass spectrometry, of three common methods used to harvest S. cerevisiae cells: low-speed centrifugation, high-speed centrifugation, and filtration. Our data suggest that, while the proteome was stable across the tested conditions, hundreds of phosphorylation events were different between centrifugation and filtration. Our analysis shows that, under our experimental conditions, filtration may cause both cell wall and osmotic stress at higher levels compared to centrifugation, implying harvesting-method-specific stresses. Thus, considering that the basal activation levels of specific stresses may differ under certain harvesting conditions is an important, but often overlooked, aspect of experimental design.
PXD043925	37873871	Urine-HILIC: Automated Sample Preparation for Bottom-Up Urinary Proteome Profiling in Clinical Proteomics. 	Urine-HILIC - An automated sample preparation for bottom-up urinary proteome profiling in clinical proteomics	HILIC, SWATH-MS (DIA), automated sample preparation, clinical proteomics, urinary proteomics	Urine provides a diverse source of information related to a patient's health status and is ideal for clinical proteomics due to its ease of collection. To date, most methods for the preparation of urine samples lack the throughput required to analyze large clinical cohorts. To this end, we developed a novel workflow, urine-HILIC (uHLC), based on an on-bead protein capture, clean-up, and digestion without the need for bottleneck processing steps such as protein precipitation or centrifugation. The workflow was applied to an acute kidney injury (AKI) pilot study. Urine from clinical samples and a pooled sample was subjected to automated sample preparation in a KingFisher(TM) Flex magnetic handling station using the novel approach based on MagReSyn((R)) HILIC microspheres. For benchmarking, the pooled sample was also prepared using a published protocol based on an on-membrane (OM) protein capture and digestion workflow. Peptides were analyzed by LCMS in data-independent acquisition (DIA) mode using a Dionex Ultimate 3000 UPLC coupled to a Sciex 5600 mass spectrometer. The data were searched in Spectronaut(TM) 17. Both workflows showed similar peptide and protein identifications in the pooled sample. The uHLC workflow was easier to set up and complete, having less hands-on time than the OM method, with fewer manual processing steps. Lower peptide and protein coefficient of variation was observed in the uHLC technical replicates. Following statistical analysis, candidate protein markers were filtered, at >=8.35-fold change in abundance, >=2 unique peptides and <=1% false discovery rate, and revealed 121 significant, differentially abundant proteins, some of which have known associations with kidney injury. The pilot data derived using this novel workflow provide information on the urinary proteome of patients with AKI. Further exploration in a larger cohort using this novel high-throughput method is warranted.
PXD041518	37874167	Multiple TonB homologs are important for carbohydrate utilization by Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron. 	Investigation of Role of Eleven TonB Homologs in Carbohydrate Utilization by Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron	Bacteroides. TonB, glucose, maltose	IMPORTANCE: The human gut microbiota, including Bacteroides, is required for the degradation of otherwise undigestible polysaccharides. The gut microbiota uses polysaccharides as an energy source, and fermentation products such as short-chain fatty acids are beneficial to the human host. This use of polysaccharides is dependent on the proper pairing of a TonB protein with polysaccharide-specific TonB-dependent transporters; however, the formation of these protein complexes is poorly understood. In this study, we examine the role of 11 predicted TonB homologs in polysaccharide uptake. We show that two proteins, TonB4 and TonB6, may be functionally redundant. This may allow for the development of drugs targeting Bacteroides species containing only a TonB4 homolog with limited impact on species encoding the redundant TonB6.
PXD030140	37875111	Methotrexate-based PROTACs as DHFR-specific chemical probes. 	Methotrexate-based PROTACs as DHFR chemical probes	DHFR, PROTAC, chemical probe, methotrexate, one carbon metabolism, targeted protein degradation	Methotrexate (MTX) is a tight-binding dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) inhibitor, used as both an antineoplastic and immunosuppressant therapeutic. MTX, like folate undergoes folylpolyglutamate synthetase-mediated gamma-glutamylation, which affects cellular retention and target specificity. Mechanisms of MTX resistance in cancers include a decrease in MTX poly-gamma-glutamylation and an upregulation of DHFR. Here, we report a series of potent MTX-based proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) to investigate DHFR degradation pharmacology and one-carbon biochemistry. These on-target, cell-active PROTACs show proteasome- and E3 ligase-dependent activity, and selective degradation of DHFR in multiple cancer cell lines. By comparison, treatment with MTX increases cellular DHFR protein expression. Importantly, these PROTACs produced distinct, less-lethal phenotypes compared to MTX. The chemical probe set described here should complement conventional DHFR inhibitors and serve as useful tools for studying one-carbon biochemistry and dissecting complex polypharmacology of MTX and related drugs. Such compounds may also serve as leads for potential autoimmune and antineoplastic therapeutics.
PXD040339	37878419	GSE1 links the HDAC1/CoREST co-repressor complex to DNA damage. 	Deletion of GSE1 and HDAC1 inactivation alters proteomic profiles and cell cycle control	DNA damage response, GSE1, HAP1, HDAC1, acetylome, phosphorylome	Post-translational modifications of histones are important regulators of the DNA damage response (DDR). By using affinity purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS) we discovered that genetic suppressor element 1 (GSE1) forms a complex with the HDAC1/CoREST deacetylase/demethylase co-repressor complex. In-depth phosphorylome analysis revealed that loss of GSE1 results in impaired DDR, ATR signalling and gammaH2AX formation upon DNA damage induction. Altered profiles of ATR target serine-glutamine motifs (SQ) on DDR-related hallmark proteins point to a defect in DNA damage sensing. In addition, GSE1 knock-out cells show hampered DNA damage-induced phosphorylation on SQ motifs of regulators of histone post-translational modifications, suggesting altered histone modification. While loss of GSE1 does not affect the histone deacetylation activity of CoREST, GSE1 appears to be essential for binding of the deubiquitinase USP22 to CoREST and for the deubiquitination of H2B K120 in response to DNA damage. The combination of deacetylase, demethylase, and deubiquitinase activity makes the USP22-GSE1-CoREST subcomplex a multi-enzymatic eraser that seems to play an important role during DDR. Since GSE1 has been previously associated with cancer progression and survival our findings are potentially of high medical relevance.
PXD045229	37878693	Nimbolide targets RNF114 to induce the trapping of PARP1 and synthetic lethality in BRCA-mutated cancer. 	A chromatin re-localization screen for the identification of Poly-ADP-ribosylation (PARylation)-dependent DNA repair factors.	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), chromatin relocalization PARylation screen	Recent studies have pointed to PARP1 trapping as a key determinant of the anticancer effects of PARP1 inhibitors (PARPi). We identified RNF114, as a PARylation-dependent, E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in DNA damage response. Upon sensing genotoxicity, RNF114 was recruited, in a PAR-dependent manner, to DNA lesions, where it targeted PARP1 for degradation. The blockade of this pathway interfered with the removal of PARP1 from DNA lesions, leading to profound PARP1 trapping. We showed that a natural product, nimbolide, inhibited the E3 ligase activity of RNF114 and thus caused PARP1 trapping. However, unlike conventional PARPi, nimbolide treatment induced the trapping of both PARP1 and PARylation-dependent DNA repair factors. Nimbolide showed synthetic lethality with BRCA mutations, and it overcame intrinsic and acquired resistance to PARPi, both in vitro and in vivo. These results point to the exciting possibility of targeting the RNF114-PARP1 pathway for the treatment of homologous recombination-deficient cancers.
PXD039035	37880206	Immune synapse formation promotes lipid peroxidation and MHC-I upregulation in licensed dendritic cells for efficient priming of CD8(+) T cells. 	Multiplexed quantitative proteomics of CD4 T cell-mediated postsynaptic dendritic cells (DC)	CD4 T cell-mediated postsynaptic dendritic cells (DC), quantitative proteomics	Antigen cognate dendritic cell (DC)-T cell synaptic interactions drive activation of T cells and instruct DCs. Upon receiving CD4(+) T cell help, post-synaptic DCs (psDCs) are licensed to generate CD8(+) T cell responses. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms that enable psDCs licensing remain unclear. Here, we describe that antigen presentation induces an upregulation of MHC-I protein molecules and increased lipid peroxidation on psDCs in vitro and in vivo. We also show that these events mediate DC licensing. In addition, psDC adoptive transfer enhances pathogen-specific CD8(+) T responses and protects mice from infection in a CD8(+) T cell-dependent manner. Conversely, depletion of psDCs in vivo abrogates antigen-specific CD8(+) T cell responses during immunization. Together, our data show that psDCs enable CD8(+) T cell responses in vivo during vaccination and reveal crucial molecular events underlying psDC licensing.
PXD045447	37880317	New insights in the targets of action of dimethyl fumarate in endothelial cells: effects on energetic metabolism and serine synthesis in vitro and in vivo. 	Antiangiogenic Potential of an Olive Oil Extract: Insights from a Proteomic Study	Angiogenesis, EVOO, Olive oil, Polyphenols	Dimethyl fumarate is an ester from the Krebs cycle intermediate fumarate. This drug is approved and currently used for the treatment of psoriasis and multiple sclerosis, and its anti-angiogenic activity was reported some years ago. Due to the current clinical relevance of this compound and the recently manifested importance of endothelial cell metabolism on the angiogenic switch, we wanted to elucidate whether dimethyl fumarate has an effect on energetic metabolism of endothelial cells. Different experimental approximations were performed in endothelial cells, including proteomics, isotope tracing and metabolomics experimental approaches, in this work we studied the possible role of dimethyl fumarate in endothelial cell energetic metabolism. We demonstrate for the first time that dimethyl fumarate promotes glycolysis and diminishes cell respiration in endothelial cells, which could be a consequence of a down-regulation of serine and glycine synthesis through inhibition of PHGDH activity in these cells. Dimethyl fumarate alters the energetic metabolism of endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo through an unknown mechanism, which could be the cause or the consequence of its pharmacological activity. This new discovery on the targets of this compound could open a new field of study regarding the mechanism of action of dimethyl fumarate.
PXD038652	37880367	Leishmania genetic exchange is mediated by IgM natural antibodies. 	Genetic exchange in leishmania is facilitated by IgM natural antibodies.	Genetic exchange, IgM, Leishmania	Host factors that mediate Leishmania genetic exchange are not well defined. Here we demonstrate that natural IgM (IgMn)(1-4) antibodies mediate parasite genetic exchange by inducing the transient formation of a spherical parasite clump that promotes parasite fusion and hybrid formation. We establish that IgMn from Leishmania-free animals binds to the surface of Leishmania parasites to induce significant changes in the expression of parasite transcripts and proteins. Leishmania binding to IgMn is partially lost after glycosidase treatment, although parasite surface phosphoglycans, including lipophosphoglycan, are not required for IgMn-induced parasite clumping. Notably, the transient formation of parasite clumps is essential for Leishmania hybridization in vitro. In vivo, we observed a 12-fold increase in hybrid formation in sand flies provided a second blood meal containing IgMn compared with controls. Furthermore, the generation of recombinant progeny from mating hybrids and parental lines were only observed in sand flies provided with IgMn. Both in vitro and in vivo IgM-induced Leishmania crosses resulted in full genome hybrids that show equal patterns of biparental contribution. Leishmania co-option of a host natural antibody to facilitate mating in the insect vector establishes a new paradigm of parasite-host-vector interdependence that contributes to parasite diversity and fitness by promoting genetic exchange.
PXD043558	37883794	PF4 activates the c-Mpl-Jak2 pathway in platelets. 	Identifying the mechanism of platelet activation by platelet factor 4 (PF4) a.k.a CXCL4	CXCL4, PF4, Platelets, Signalling	Platelet factor 4 (PF4) is an abundant chemokine that is released from platelet alpha-granules upon activation. PF4 is central to the pathophysiology of vaccine-induced immune thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (VITT) in which antibodies to PF4 form immune complexes with PF4, which activate platelets and neutrophils through Fc receptors. In this study, we show that PF4 binds and activates the thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor, c-Mpl on platelets. This leads to the activation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 and STAT5, leading to platelet aggregation. Inhibition of the c-Mpl-JAK2 pathway inhibits platelet aggregation to PF4, VITT serum, and to the combination of PF4 and IgG isolated from VITT patient plasma. The results support a model in which PF4-based immune complexes activate platelets through binding of the Fc domain to FcgammaRIIA and PF4 to c-Mpl.
PXD045698	37884488	Food amyloid fibrils are safe nutrition ingredients based on in-vitro and in-vivo assessment. 	LC-MS/MS analysis on in-vivo mice gastrointestinal digests	mice intestinal colon serum LC-MS	Food protein amyloid fibrils have superior technological, nutritional, sensorial, and physical properties compared to native monomers, but there is as yet insufficient understanding of their digestive fate and safety for wide consumption. By combining SDS-PAGE, ELISA, fluorescence, AFM, MALDI-MS, CD, microfluidics, and SAXS techniques for the characterization of beta-lactoglobulin and lysozyme amyloid fibrils subjected to in-vitro gastrointestinal digestion, here we show that either no noticeable conformational differences exist between amyloid aggregates and their monomer counterparts after the gastrointestinal digestion process (as in beta-lactoglobulin), or that amyloid fibrils are digested significantly better than monomers (as in lysozyme). Moreover, in-vitro exposure of human cell lines and in-vivo studies with C. elegans and mouse models, indicate that the digested fibrils present no observable cytotoxicity, physiological abnormalities in health-span, nor accumulation of fibril-induced plaques in brain nor other organs. These extensive in-vitro and in-vivo studies together suggest that the digested food amyloids are at least equally as safe as those obtained from the digestion of corresponding native monomers, pointing to food amyloid fibrils as potential ingredients for human nutrition.
PXD044621	37884493	GSG1L-containing AMPA receptor complexes are defined by their spatiotemporal expression, native interactome and allosteric sites. 	GSG1L-containing AMPA receptors are complexes with unique spatiotemporal expression, subunit composition and gating properties	interactomics	Transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) and germ cell-specific gene 1-like protein (GSG1L) are claudin-type AMPA receptor (AMPAR) auxiliary subunits that profoundly regulate glutamatergic synapse strength and plasticity. While AMPAR-TARP complexes have been extensively studied, less is known about GSG1L-containing AMPARs. Here, we show that GSG1L's spatiotemporal expression, native interactome and allosteric sites are distinct. GSG1L generally expresses late during brain development in a region-specific manner, constituting about 5% of all AMPAR complexes in adulthood. While GSG1L can co-assemble with TARPs or cornichons (CNIHs), it also assembles as the sole auxiliary subunit. Unexpectedly, GSG1L acts through two discrete evolutionarily-conserved sites on the agonist-binding domain with a weak allosteric interaction at the TARP/KGK site to slow desensitization, and a stronger interaction at a different site that slows recovery from desensitization. Together, these distinctions help explain GSG1L's evolutionary past and how it fulfills a unique signaling role within glutamatergic synapses.
PXD030308	37884813	DNA-binding protein PfAP2-P regulates parasite pathogenesis during malaria parasite blood stages. 	PfAP2-MRP DNA-binding protein is a master regulator of parasite pathogenesis during malaria parasite blood stages	APiap2, Egress, Epigenetics, Invasion, P.falciparum, var	Malaria-associated pathogenesis such as parasite invasion, egress, host cell remodelling and antigenic variation requires concerted action by many proteins, but the molecular regulation is poorly understood. Here we have characterized an essential Plasmodium-specific Apicomplexan AP2 transcription factor in Plasmodium falciparum (PfAP2-P; pathogenesis) during the blood-stage development with two peaks of expression. An inducible knockout of gene function showed that PfAP2-P is essential for trophozoite development, and critical for var gene regulation, merozoite development and parasite egress. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing data collected at timepoints matching the two peaks of pfap2-p expression demonstrate PfAP2-P binding to promoters of genes controlling trophozoite development, host cell remodelling, antigenic variation and pathogenicity. Single-cell RNA sequencing and fluorescence-activated cell sorting revealed de-repression of most var genes in Deltapfap2-p parasites. Deltapfap2-p parasites also overexpress early gametocyte marker genes, indicating a regulatory role in sexual stage conversion. We conclude that PfAP2-P is an essential upstream transcriptional regulator at two distinct stages of the intra-erythrocytic development cycle.
PXD045065	37884999	The Quartet Data Portal: integration of community-wide resources for multiomics quality control. 	The Quartet Data Portal: integration of community-wide resources for multiomics quality control (Proteomics)	Quartet	The Quartet Data Portal facilitates community access to well-characterized reference materials, reference datasets, and related resources established based on a family of four individuals with identical twins from the Quartet Project. Users can request DNA, RNA, protein, and metabolite reference materials, as well as datasets generated across omics, platforms, labs, protocols, and batches. Reproducible analysis tools allow for objective performance assessment of user-submitted data, while interactive visualization tools support rapid exploration of reference datasets. A closed-loop "distribution-collection-evaluation-integration" workflow enables updates and integration of community-contributed multiomics data. Ultimately, this portal helps promote the advancement of reference datasets and multiomics quality control.
PXD043146	37886648	Pathological mechanisms of type 1 diabetes in children: investigation of the exosomal protein expression profile. 	Exosomal proteomic profiling revealed children type 1 diabete pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets	Exosome, TMT6, Type 1 diabetes	Introduction: Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a serious autoimmune disease with high morbidity and mortality. Early diagnosis and treatment remain unsatisfactory. While the potential for development of T1D biomarkers in circulating exosomes has attracted interest, progress has been limited. This study endeavors to explore the molecular dynamics of plasma exosome proteins in pediatric T1D patients and potential mechanisms correlated with T1D progression. Methods: Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry with tandem mass tag (TMT)6 labeling was used to quantify exosomal protein expression profiles in 12 healthy controls and 24 T1D patients stratified by age (<= 6 years old and > 6 years old) and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels (> 7% or > 7%). Integrated bioinformatics analysis was employed to decipher the functions of differentially expressed proteins, and Western blotting was used for validation of selected proteins' expression levels. Results: We identified 1035 differentially expressed proteins (fold change > 1.3) between the T1D patients and healthy controls: 558 in those <= 6-year-old and 588 in those > 6-year-old. In those who reached an HbA1c level < 7% following 3 or more months of insulin therapy, the expression levels of most altered proteins in both T1D age groups returned to levels comparable to those in the healthy control group. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that differentially expressed exosome proteins are primarily related to immune function, hemostasis, cellular stress responses, and matrix organization. Western blotting confirmed the alterations in RAB40A, SEMA6D, COL6A5, and TTR proteins. Discussion: This study delivers valuable insights into the fundamental molecular mechanisms contributing to T1D pathology. Moreover, it proposes potential therapeutic targets for improved T1D management.
PXD044182	37886905	A conserved complex of microneme proteins mediates rhoptry discharge in Toxoplasma. 	Quantitative proteomic measurement of the Ca2+-dependent excretory-secretory antigen secretome of Toxoplasma gondii	Calcium, MS-ESA, Rhoptry secretion., Toxoplasma gondii	Apicomplexan parasites discharge specialized organelles called rhoptries upon host cell contact to mediate invasion. The events that drive rhoptry discharge are poorly understood, yet essential to sustain the apicomplexan parasitic life cycle. Rhoptry discharge appears to depend on proteins secreted from another set of organelles called micronemes, which vary in function from allowing host cell binding to facilitation of gliding motility. Here we examine the function of the microneme protein CLAMP, which we previously found to be necessary for Toxoplasma gondii host cell invasion, and demonstrate its essential role in rhoptry discharge. CLAMP forms a distinct complex with two other microneme proteins, the invasion-associated SPATR, and a previously uncharacterized protein we name CLAMP-linked invasion protein (CLIP). CLAMP deficiency does not impact parasite adhesion or microneme protein secretion; however, knockdown of any member of the CLAMP complex affects rhoptry discharge. Phylogenetic analysis suggests orthologs of the essential complex components, CLAMP and CLIP, are ubiquitous across apicomplexans. SPATR appears to act as an accessory factor in Toxoplasma, but despite incomplete conservation is also essential for invasion during Plasmodium falciparum blood stages. Together, our results reveal a new protein complex that mediates rhoptry discharge following host-cell contact.
PXD037530	37886975	Protein Lactylation Modification and Proteomics Features in Cirrhosis Patients after UC-MSC Treatment. 	Protein Lactylation modification and Proteomics Features in Cirrhosis Patients after MSCs Treatment.	Mesenchymal stem cell, cell therapy, lactylation modification, liver cirrhosis, proteomics analysis.	Umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell (UC-MSC) therapy improves liver function in liver cirrhosis patients. This study aimed to elucidate the therapeutic mechanism underlying cell therapy by analyzing changes in the modification and expression of proteins 1 month post-treatment with UC-MSCs. This prospective study included 11 cirrhosis patients who received MSC injection. The laboratory indexes before and after treatment were collected to evaluate the clinical treatment effect of UC-MSCs, and the protein expression and lactylation modification in the liver were comprehensively revealed. Meanwhile, weighted gene co-expression network analysis was used to analyze the co-expression protein modules and their relationship with clinical features. The patients with liver cirrhosis showed an improvement trend after receiving UC-MSC treatment; specifically, the liver protein synthesis function was significantly improved and the coagulation function was also significantly improved. Proteomics combined with lactic acid proteomics revealed 160 lysine lactylation (Kla) sites of 119 proteins. Functional analysis showed that the lactylation-modified proteins were enriched in the pathway of glucose and other substances' metabolism, and many key enzymes of glycolysis and gluconeogenesis were lactated. UC-MSC therapy has a certain clinical effect in the treatment of liver cirrhosis and may act by regulating material metabolism, because the lactylation protein points to energy metabolism.
PXD039863	37887796	Combined Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis of the Protein Composition of the Brochosomes of the Leafhopper Nephotettix cincticeps. 	Combined transcriptome and proteome analysis of the protein composition of the brochosomes of the leafhopper Nephotettix cincticeps	Brochosome, Leafhopper, Nephotettix cincticeps, Transcriptome	Brochosomes, unique coatings on the integuments of Cicadellidae, are synthesized in specialized glandular sections of Malpighian tubules. However, limited knowledge exists regarding the protein composition of brochosomes. In this study, we conducted transcriptomic and proteomic profiling to characterize the brochosome protein composition in the rice green leafhopper Nephotettix cincticeps. Brochosomes were collected from the forewings of leafhoppers using ultrasonic treatment, allowing for more effective brochosome collection and shaking treatment, resulting in purer brochosomes. Transcriptome sequencing analysis identified 106 genes specifically expressed in the Malpighian tubules; combined with proteomic data, we identified 22 candidate brochosome proteins. These proteins were classified into 12 brochosomins (BSM) and 10 brochosome-associated proteins (BSAP) based on previous research. Conserved motif analysis and functional predictions unveiled unique motifs in each BSM, while BSAP appeared to play a crucial role in BSM folding and pathogen resistance. Comparative analysis of other Hemiptera species demonstrated that all BSM and some BSAP are specific to the Cicadellidae family. Our findings could contribute to understanding the mechanism of brochosome synthesis, its function, and evolutionary genesis.
PXD048943	37888562	Relative Abundance of Spermadhesin-1 in the Seminal Plasma of Young Nellore Bulls Is in Agreement with Reproductive Parameters. 	Raw dataset of seminal plasma proteomic of nellore bulls	animal reproduction, bovine, semen	This study aimed to evaluate the proteomic profile of seminal plasma from young Nellore bulls. We used 20 bulls aged between 19.8 and 22.7 months, divided into two groups according to the results of the Breeding Soundness Evaluation (BSE): approved (FIT n = 10) and not approved (UNFIT n = 10). The scrotal perimeter was measured and a semen collection was performed through electroejaculation. The percentage of sperm motility, mass motility, and sperm vigor were calculated using conventional microscopy, and the percentage of sperm abnormalities was calculated using phase-contrast microscopy of all ejaculates. Seminal plasma was separated from spermatozoa using centrifugation and processed for proteomic analysis by LC-MS/MS. Seminal plasma proteins were identified using MASCOT Daemon software v.2.4.0 and label-free quantification analysis was carried out by SCAFFOLD Q+ software v.4.0 using the Exponentially Modified Protein Abundance Index (emPAI) method. Functional classification of proteins was performed based on their genetic ontology terms using KOG. Functional cluster analysis was performed on DAVID. There were no differences in scrotal perimeter and physical semen characteristics between FIT and UNFIT groups of bulls. The percentage of sperm abnormalities was higher (p < 0.05) in the UNFIT group of bulls. A total of 297 proteins were identified for the two groups. There were a total of 11 differentially abundant proteins (p < 0.05), two of them more abundant in FIT bulls (Spermadhesin-1 and Ig gamma-1 chain C region) and nine in UNFIT bulls (Vasoactive intestinal peptide, Metalloproteinase inhibitor 2, Ig lambda-1 chain C regions, Protein FAM3C, Hemoglobin beta, Seminal ribonuclease, Spermadhesin 2, Seminal plasma protein BSP-30kDa, and Spermadhesin Z13). Spermadhesin-1 was the protein with the highest relative abundance (36.7%) in the seminal plasma among all bulls, corresponding to 47.7% for the FIT bulls and 25,7% for the UNFIT bulls. Posttranslational modification, protein turnover, and chaperones were the functional categories with the highest number of classified proteins. Protein functional annotation clusters were related to Phospholipid efflux, ATP binding, and chaperonin-containing T-complex. The differentially abundant proteins in the group of FIT bulls were related to sperm capacitation and protection against reactive species of oxygen. In contrast, differentially expressed proteins in the group of UNFIT bulls were related to motility inhibition, intramembrane cholesterol removal and oxidative stress. In conclusion, the proteomic profile of the seminal plasma of FIT bulls presents proteins with participation in several biological processes favorable to fertilization, while the proteins of the seminal plasma of UNFIT bulls indicate a series of alterations that can compromise the fertilizing capacity of the spermatozoa. In addition, the relative abundance of spermadhesin-1 found in the seminal plasma of young Nellore bulls could be studied as a reproductive parameter for selection.
PXD037169	37888986	The hierarchy of sugar catabolization in Lactococcus cremoris. 	Proteome and sugar catabolization capacity of Lactococcus cremoris grown on various sugars	Lactococcus cremoris, hierarchy, lactic acid bacterium, sugar catabolization	Bacteria adapt to nutrient availability by regulating the synthesis of enzymes. Transcriptome- and multi-sugar growth studies suggest that Lactococcus cremoris represses genes involved in the catabolization of lower growth rate-supporting (lower quality) sugars in a hierarchical order. Furthermore, L. cremoris appears to always express genes involved in the catabolization of higher growth rate-supporting sugars (higher quality) relative to the sugar it is growing on. Here, we unraveled the sugar catabolization hierarchy by determining the sugar catabolizing capacity and the proteome of cells exponentially growing on glucose (micromax = 0.72 h(-1)), lactose (micromax = 0.6 h(-1)), galactose (micromax = 0.44 h(-1)), or maltose (micromax = 0.43 h(-1)). We found that L. cremoris can grow on 14 of the 96 sugars in a Biolog plate, with micromax ranging from 0.32 to 0.72 h(-1). Proteome and catabolization rate measurements show that L. cremoris consistently prepares for the catabolization of higher-quality sugars, except trehalose. While cells were not prepared for the catabolization of most lower-quality sugars, some proteins related to fructose and lactose consumption were always present. Moreover, reducing the growth rate of glucose through salt stress had only a minor influence on the sugars that L. cremoris could catabolize. These findings demonstrate that the catabolization hierarchy is not strictly linked to absolute growth rate or sugar quality. Cells instantly catabolizing a higher-quality sugar require enhanced expression of ribosomal and nucleotide metabolism functions for growth rate maximization, whereas transitioning to lower-quality sugars requires enhanced synthesis of proteins related to arginine catabolism and mixed acid fermentation, besides sugar-specific catabolic proteins.IMPORTANCEThe availability of nutrients to microorganisms varies considerably between different environments, and changes can occur rapidly. As a general rule, a fast growth rate-typically growth on glucose-is associated with the repression of other carbohydrate utilization genes, but it is not clear to what extent catabolite repression is exerted by other sugars. We investigated the hierarchy of sugar utilization after substrate transitions in Lactococcus cremoris. For this, we determined the proteome and carbohydrate utilization capacity after growth on different sugars. The results show that the preparedness of cells for the utilization of "slower" sugars is not strictly determined by the growth rate. The data point to individual proteins relevant for various sugar transitions and suggest that the evolutionary history of the organism might be responsible for deviations from a strictly growth rate-related sugar catabolization hierarchy.
PXD039204	37889066	Using Comparative Proteomics to Identify Protein Signatures in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	Comparative quantitative proteomics in renal cell carcinoma to identify the novel progression factors	: clear cell renal carcinoma, Bioinformatics Infrastructure for Life Sciences (BILS) network (Sweden), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), comparative, metastasis	BACKGROUND/AIM: Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in the world. Approximately 25-30% of patients identified with initial kidney cancer will have metastasized tumors, thus 5-year survival rates for these patients are poor. Therefore, biomarker research is required to identify and predict molecular signatures in RCC. MATERIALS AND METHODS: To address this, we used a mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics approach to identify proteins related to clear cell RCC (ccRCC) tissues from patients with T1G2, T1G3, T3G2, T3G3, and metastatic RCC (mRCC) stages. RESULTS: We identified and quantified 2,608 and 2,463 proteins, respectively, in ccRCC tissue and identified 1,449 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Bioinformatics analysis revealed that serpin family A member 3 (SERPINA3) qualified as biomarker for ccRCC progression. Using indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry assays it was found that SERPINA3 expression levels in ccRCC tissues were much higher in stages before metastasis. CONCLUSION: Comparative proteomics analysis of ccRCC tissues provided new evidence of SERPINA3 association with ccRCC progression.
PXD045842	37889751	Dual agonistic and antagonistic roles of ZC3H18 provide for co-activation of distinct nuclear RNA decay pathways. 	Dual agonistic and antagonistic roles of ZC3H18 provides for co-activation of distinct nuclear RNA decay pathways	ARS2, NEXT, Nuclear RNA decay, PAXT, ZC3H18, activation, inhibition	The RNA exosome is a versatile ribonuclease. In the nucleoplasm of mammalian cells, it is assisted by its adaptors the nuclear exosome targeting (NEXT) complex and the poly(A) exosome targeting (PAXT) connection. Via its association with the ARS2 and ZC3H18 proteins, NEXT/exosome is recruited to capped and short unadenylated transcripts. Conversely, PAXT/exosome is considered to target longer and adenylated substrates via their poly(A) tails. Here, mutational analysis of the core PAXT component ZFC3H1 uncovers a separate branch of the PAXT pathway, which targets short adenylated RNAs and relies on a direct ARS2-ZFC3H1 interaction. We further demonstrate that similar acidic-rich short linear motifs of ZFC3H1 and ZC3H18 compete for a common ARS2 epitope. Consequently, while promoting NEXT function, ZC3H18 antagonizes PAXT activity. We suggest that this organization of RNA decay complexes provides co-activation of NEXT and PAXT at loci with abundant production of short exosome substrates.
PXD044033	37889970	Deciphering sources of PET signals in the tumor microenvironment of glioblastoma at cellular resolution. 	Proteomics of  tumor associated microglia, tumor tissue from SB28 glioblastoma mice, and control microglia	SB28 glioblastoma, microglia, tumor associated microglia, tumor tissue	Various cellular sources hamper interpretation of positron emission tomography (PET) biomarkers in the tumor microenvironment (TME). We developed an approach of immunomagnetic cell sorting after in vivo radiotracer injection (scRadiotracing) with three-dimensional (3D) histology to dissect the cellular allocation of PET signals in the TME. In mice with implanted glioblastoma, translocator protein (TSPO) radiotracer uptake per tumor cell was higher compared to tumor-associated microglia/macrophages (TAMs), validated by protein levels. Translation of in vitro scRadiotracing to patients with glioma immediately after tumor resection confirmed higher single-cell TSPO tracer uptake of tumor cells compared to immune cells. Across species, cellular radiotracer uptake explained the heterogeneity of individual TSPO-PET signals. In consideration of cellular tracer uptake and cell type abundance, tumor cells were the main contributor to TSPO enrichment in glioblastoma; however, proteomics identified potential PET targets highly specific for TAMs. Combining cellular tracer uptake measures with 3D histology facilitates precise allocation of PET signals and serves to validate emerging novel TAM-specific radioligands.
PXD041960	37890901	A multi-platform approach to identify a blood-based host protein signature for distinguishing between bacterial and viral infections in febrile children (PERFORM): a multi-cohort machine learning study. 	Human plasma LC-MS/MS from children with bacterial and viral infections	bacterial, humans, plasma, viral	BACKGROUND: Differentiating between self-resolving viral infections and bacterial infections in children who are febrile is a common challenge, causing difficulties in identifying which individuals require antibiotics. Studying the host response to infection can provide useful insights and can lead to the identification of biomarkers of infection with diagnostic potential. This study aimed to identify host protein biomarkers for future development into an accurate, rapid point-of-care test that can distinguish between bacterial and viral infections, by recruiting children presenting to health-care settings with fever or a history of fever in the previous 72 h. METHODS: In this multi-cohort machine learning study, patient data were taken from EUCLIDS, the Swiss Pediatric Sepsis study, the GENDRES study, and the PERFORM study, which were all based in Europe. We generated three high-dimensional proteomic datasets (SomaScan and two via liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, referred to as MS-A and MS-B) using targeted and untargeted platforms (SomaScan and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry). Protein biomarkers were then shortlisted using differential abundance analysis, feature selection using forward selection-partial least squares (FS-PLS; 100 iterations), along with a literature search. Identified proteins were tested with Luminex and ELISA and iterative FS-PLS was done again (25 iterations) on the Luminex results alone, and the Luminex and ELISA results together. A sparse protein signature for distinguishing between bacterial and viral infections was identified from the selected proteins. The performance of this signature was finally tested using Luminex assays and by calculating disease risk scores. FINDINGS: 376 children provided serum or plasma samples for use in the discovery of protein biomarkers. 79 serum samples were collected for the generation of the SomaScan dataset, 147 plasma samples for the MS-A dataset, and 150 plasma samples for the MS-B dataset. Differential abundance analysis, and the first round of feature selection using FS-PLS identified 35 protein biomarker candidates, of which 13 had commercial ELISA or Luminex tests available. 16 proteins with ELISA or Luminex tests available were identified by literature review. Further evaluation via Luminex and ELISA and the second round of feature selection using FS-PLS revealed a six-protein signature: three of the included proteins are elevated in bacterial infections (SELE, NGAL, and IFN-gamma), and three are elevated in viral infections (IL18, NCAM1, and LG3BP). Performance testing of the signature using Luminex assays revealed area under the receiver operating characteristic curve values between 89.4% and 93.6%. INTERPRETATION: This study has led to the identification of a protein signature that could be ultimately developed into a blood-based point-of-care diagnostic test for rapidly diagnosing bacterial and viral infections in febrile children. Such a test has the potential to greatly improve care of children who are febrile, ensuring that the correct individuals receive antibiotics. FUNDING: European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, the European Union's Seventh Framework Programme (EUCLIDS), Imperial Biomedical Research Centre of the National Institute for Health Research, the Wellcome Trust and Medical Research Foundation, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Consorcio Centro de Investigacion Biomedica en Red de Enfermedades Respiratorias, Grupos de Refeencia Competitiva, Swiss State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation.
PXD042481	37891162	Folding correctors can restore CFTR posttranslational folding landscape by allosteric domain-domain coupling. 	Folding correctors can retore CFTR post-translational folding landscape by allosteric domain-domain coupling	ABC-transporter, Hydrogen-deuterium exchange and mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), allostery, biogenesis, coupled domain folding, cystic f, cystic fibrosis mutation, folding corrector drugs, post-translational protein folding, protein dynamics	The folding/misfolding and pharmacological rescue of multidomain ATP-binding cassette (ABC) C-subfamily transporters, essential for organismal health, remain incompletely understood. The ABCC transporters core consists of two nucleotide binding domains (NBD1,2) and transmembrane domains (TMD1,2). Using molecular dynamic simulations, biochemical and hydrogen deuterium exchange approaches, we show that the mutational uncoupling or stabilization of NBD1-TMD1/2 interfaces can compromise or facilitate the CFTR(ABCC7)-, MRP1(ABCC1)-, and ABCC6-transporters posttranslational coupled domain-folding in the endoplasmic reticulum. Allosteric or orthosteric binding of VX-809 and/or VX-445 folding correctors to TMD1/2 can rescue kinetically trapped CFTR posttranslational folding intermediates of cystic fibrosis (CF) mutants of NBD1 or TMD1 by global rewiring inter-domain allosteric-networks. We propose that dynamic allosteric domain-domain communications not only regulate ABCC-transporters function but are indispensable to tune the folding landscape of their posttranslational intermediates. These allosteric networks can be compromised by CF-mutations, and reinstated by correctors, offering a framework for mechanistic understanding of ABCC-transporters (mis)folding.
PXD035683	37891174	Targeting the SOX2/CDP protein complex with a peptide suppresses the malignant progression of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. 	Human esopageal squamous cell carcinoma LC-MSMS	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, Human Proteome Project, Peptide, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Therapy	Emerging evidence indicates that SOX2 is an oncogene for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). However, direct targeting of SOX2 is not feasible given that this transcription factor plays important roles in the maintenance of tissues such as the brain. Here, we identified CDP (Homeobox protein cut-like 1 or CASP) as a unique SOX2 binding partner enriched in ESCC with Duolink proximity ligation assay, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFc) and immunoprecipitation. We then screened a peptide aptamer library using BiFc and immunoprecipitation and identified several peptide aptamers, including P58, that blocked the CDP/SOX2 interaction, leading to the inhibition of ESCC progress in vitro and in vivo. Upon administration, synthetic peptide P58, containing the YGRKKRRQRRR cell-penetrating peptide and the fluorophore TAMRA, also blocked the growth and metastasis of ESCC in both mice and zebrafish. Therefore, targeting the SOX2 binding partner CDP with peptide P58 offers an alternative avenue to treat ESCC with increased SOX2 levels.
PXD034992	37891180	N-terminal acetylation shields proteins from degradation and promotes age-dependent motility and longevity. 	Impact of NatC on N-terminal acetylome	HAP cells, N-terminal enrichment, NatC, SCX	Most eukaryotic proteins are N-terminally acetylated, but the functional impact on a global scale has remained obscure. Using genome-wide CRISPR knockout screens in human cells, we reveal a strong genetic dependency between a major N-terminal acetyltransferase and specific ubiquitin ligases. Biochemical analyses uncover that both the ubiquitin ligase complex UBR4-KCMF1 and the acetyltransferase NatC recognize proteins bearing an unacetylated N-terminal methionine followed by a hydrophobic residue. NatC KO-induced protein degradation and phenotypes are reversed by UBR knockdown, demonstrating the central cellular role of this interplay. We reveal that loss of Drosophila NatC is associated with male sterility, reduced longevity, and age-dependent loss of motility due to developmental muscle defects. Remarkably, muscle-specific overexpression of UbcE2M, one of the proteins targeted for NatC KO-mediated degradation, suppresses defects of NatC deletion. In conclusion, NatC-mediated N-terminal acetylation acts as a protective mechanism against protein degradation, which is relevant for increased longevity and motility.
PXD045975	37891233	Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses reveal the mechanism of easy acceptance of artificial pelleted diets during food habit domestication in Largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides). 	proteome analysis of  the easy acceptance of artificial pelleted diets group and the not easy acceptance of artificial pelleted diets group of Largemouth bass	Largemouth bass, food habit domestication, lipid metabolism, steroid biosynthesis, terpenoid backbone	Acceptance of artificial pelleted diets contributes to increasing the cultured areas and output of carnivorous fish. However, the mechanism of acceptance of artificial pelleted diets remains largely unknown. In this study, the easy acceptance of artificial pelleted diets (EAD) group and the not easy acceptance of artificial pelleted diets (NAD) group of Largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) were divided based on the ratios of stomach weight/body weight (SB) after 0.5 h feeding, which was bigger than 18% in the EAD group and ranged from 8 to 12% in the NAD group. Through transcriptome and proteome sequencing, a total of 2463 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 230 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified, respectively. Integrated analyses of transcriptome and proteome data revealed that 152 DEPs were matched with the corresponding DEGs (named co-DEGs-DEPs), and 54 co-DEGs-DEPs were enriched in 16 KEGG pathways, including the metabolic pathways, steroid biosynthesis, fatty acid biosynthesis, etc. Furthermore, 3 terpenoid backbone biosynthesis-related genes (Hmgcr, Hmgcs, and Fdps) in metabolic pathways, 10 steroid biosynthesis-related genes (Fdft1, Sqle, Lss, Cyp51a1, Tm7sf2, Nsdhl, Hsd17b7, Dhcr24, Sc5d, and Dhcr7), and 3 fatty acid biosynthesis-related genes (Acaca, Fasn, and Ascl) were all up-regulated in the EAD group, suggesting that the lipid metabolism pathway and steroid biosynthesis pathway play important roles in early food habit domestication in Largemouth bass. In addition, the detection results of randomly selected 15 DEGs and 15 DEPs indicated that both transcriptome and proteome results in the study were reliable. Our study provides useful information for further research on the mechanisms of food habit domestication in fish.
PXD038288	37891368	SET-PP2A complex as a new therapeutic target in KMT2A (MLL) rearranged AML. 	Effects of FTY720 on phospho-proteome of leukemic cells	AML, FTY720, Fingolimod, PP2A, SET, phosphoproteomics	KMT2A-rearranged (KMT2A-R) is an aggressive and chemo-refractory acute leukemia which mostly affects children. Transcriptomics-based characterization and chemical interrogation identified kinases as key drivers of survival and drug resistance in KMT2A-R leukemia. In contrast, the contribution and regulation of phosphatases is unknown. In this study we uncover the essential role and underlying mechanisms of SET, the endogenous inhibitor of Ser/Thr phosphatase PP2A, in KMT2A-R-leukemia. Investigation of SET expression in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) samples demonstrated that SET is overexpressed, and elevated expression of SET is correlated with poor prognosis and with the expression of MEIS and HOXA genes in AML patients. Silencing SET specifically abolished the clonogenic ability of KMT2A-R leukemic cells and the transcription of KMT2A targets genes HOXA9 and HOXA10. Subsequent mechanistic investigations showed that SET interacts with both KMT2A wild type and fusion proteins, and it is recruited to the HOXA10 promoter. Pharmacological inhibition of SET by FTY720 disrupted SET-PP2A interaction leading to cell cycle arrest and increased sensitivity to chemotherapy in KMT2A-R-leukemic models. Phospho-proteomic analyses revealed that FTY720 reduced the activity of kinases regulated by PP2A, including ERK1, GSK3beta, AURB and PLK1 and led to suppression of MYC, supporting the hypothesis of a feedback loop among PP2A, AURB, PLK1, MYC, and SET. Our findings illustrate that SET is a novel player in KMT2A-R leukemia and they provide evidence that SET antagonism could serve as a novel strategy to treat this aggressive leukemia.
PXD041176	37891669	Albumin-bound paclitaxel augment temozolomide treatment sensitivity of glioblastoma cells by disrupting DNA damage repair and promoting ferroptosis. 	Proteomic changes after indicated drug treatment	Albumin-bound paclitaxel, Glioma, Temozolomide	BACKGROUND: Temozolomide (TMZ) treatment efficacy in glioblastoma (GBM) patients has been limited by resistance in the clinic. Currently, there are no clinically proven therapeutic options available to restore TMZ treatment sensitivity. Here, we investigated the potential of albumin-bound paclitaxel (ABX), a novel microtubule targeting agent, in sensitizing GBM cells to TMZ and elucidated its underlying molecular mechanism. METHODS: A series of in vivo and in vitro experiments based on two GBM cell lines and two primary GBM cells were designed to evaluate the efficacy of ABX in sensitizing GBM cells to TMZ. Further proteomic analysis and validation experiments were performed to explore the underlying molecular mechanism. Finally, the efficacy and mechanism were validated in GBM patients derived organoids (PDOs) models. RESULTS: ABX exhibited a synergistic inhibitory effect on GBM cells when combined with TMZ in vitro. Combination treatment of TMZ and ABX was highly effective in suppressing GBM progression and significantly prolonged the survival oforthotopic xenograft nude mice, with negligible side effects. Further proteomic analysis and experimental validation demonstrated that the combined treatment of ABX and TMZ can induce sustained DNA damage by disrupting XPC and ERCC1 expression and nuclear localization. Additionally, the combination treatment can enhance ferroptosis through regulating HOXM1 and GPX4 expression. Preclinical drug-sensitivity testing based on GBM PDOs models confirmed that combination therapy was significantly more effective than conventional TMZ monotherapy. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that ABX has the potential to enhance TMZ treatment sensitivity in GBM, which provides a promising therapeutic strategy for GBM patients.
PXD041282	37892149	Variations in O-Glycosylation Patterns Influence Viral Pathogenicity, Infectivity, and Transmissibility in SARS-CoV-2 Variants. 	Spike Glycoprotein S1 Site-specific O-glycosylation: Systematic and Comparative Analysis from Eleven Variants of SARS CoV-2	HCD-EThCD, Mutations, O-glycosylation, SARS-CoV-2	The highly glycosylated S protein plays a vital role in host cell invasion, making it the principal target for vaccine development. Differences in mutations observed on the spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2 variants may result in distinct glycosylation patterns, thus influencing immunological evasion, infectivity, and transmissibility. The glycans can mask key epitopes on the S1 protein and alter its structural conformation, allowing the virus to escape the immune system. Therefore, we comprehensively characterize O-glycosylation in eleven variants of SARS-CoV-2 S1 subunits to understand the differences observed in the biology of the variants. In-depth characterization was performed with a double digestion strategy and an efficient LC-MS/MS approach. We observed that O-glycosylation is highly conserved across all variants in the region between the NTD and RBD, whereas other domains and regions exhibit variation in O-glycosylation. Notably, omicron has the highest number of O-glycosylation sites on the S1 subunit. Also, omicron has the highest level of sialylation in the RBD and RBM functional motifs. Our findings may shed light on how differences in O-glycosylation impact viral pathogenicity in variants of SARS-CoV-2 and facilitate the development of a robust vaccine with high protective efficacy against the variants of concern.
PXD041842	37892202	Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Analysis Provides Insights into the Sodium Bicarbonate Responsiveness of Glycine max. 	Phosphoproteomic sequencing of Glycine max under alkali stress	Soybean, alkali stress, phosphoproteomics	Sodium bicarbonate stress caused by NaHCO3 is one of the most severe abiotic stresses affecting agricultural production worldwide. However, little attention has been given to the molecular mechanisms underlying plant responses to sodium bicarbonate stress. To understand phosphorylation events in signaling pathways triggered by sodium bicarbonate stress, TMT-labeling-based quantitative phosphoproteomic analyses were performed on soybean leaf and root tissues under 50 mM NaHCO3 treatment. In the present study, a total of 7856 phosphopeptides were identified from cultivated soybeans (Glycine max L. Merr.), representing 3468 phosphoprotein groups, in which 2427 phosphoprotein groups were newly identified. These phosphoprotein groups contained 6326 unique high-probability phosphosites (UHPs), of which 77.2% were newly identified, increasing the current soybean phosphosite database size by 43.4%. Among the phosphopeptides found in this study, we determined 67 phosphopeptides (representing 63 phosphoprotein groups) from leaf tissue and 554 phosphopeptides (representing 487 phosphoprotein groups) from root tissue that showed significant changes in phosphorylation levels under sodium bicarbonate stress (fold change >1.2 or <0.83, respectively; p < 0.05). Localization prediction showed that most phosphoproteins localized in the nucleus for both leaf and root tissues. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses showed quite different enriched functional terms between leaf and root tissues, and more pathways were enriched in the root tissue than in the leaf tissue. Moreover, a total of 53 different protein kinases and 7 protein phosphatases were identified from the differentially expressed phosphoproteins (DEPs). A protein kinase/phosphatase interactor analysis showed that the interacting proteins were mainly involved in/with transporters/membrane trafficking, transcriptional level regulation, protein level regulation, signaling/stress response, and miscellaneous functions. The results presented in this study reveal insights into the function of post-translational modification in plant responses to sodium bicarbonate stress.
PXD044571	37894070	Uncovering Microbiome Adaptations in a Full-Scale Biogas Plant: Insights from MAG-Centric Metagenomics and Metaproteomics. 	Microbiome adaptations and the role of abundant metagenomically assembled genomes (MAGs) from a production-scale biogas plant consisting of three independent digesters as revealed by MAG-centric metagenomics and metaproteomics	Biogas microbiome, anaerobic digestion, biogas process chain, metagenome analyses, metagenomic binning, metaproteome analyses	The current focus on renewable energy in global policy highlights the importance of methane production from biomass through anaerobic digestion (AD). To improve biomass digestion while ensuring overall process stability, microbiome-based management strategies become more important. In this study, metagenomes and metaproteomes were used for metagenomically assembled genome (MAG)-centric analyses to investigate a full-scale biogas plant consisting of three differentially operated digesters. Microbial communities were analyzed regarding their taxonomic composition, functional potential, as well as functions expressed on the proteome level. Different abundances of genes and enzymes related to the biogas process could be mostly attributed to different process parameters. Individual MAGs exhibiting different abundances in the digesters were studied in detail, and their roles in the hydrolysis, acidogenesis and acetogenesis steps of anaerobic digestion could be assigned. Methanoculleus thermohydrogenotrophicum was an active hydrogenotrophic methanogen in all three digesters, whereas Methanothermobacter wolfeii was more prevalent at higher process temperatures. Further analysis focused on MAGs, which were abundant in all digesters, indicating their potential to ensure biogas process stability. The most prevalent MAG belonged to the class Limnochordia; this MAG was ubiquitous in all three digesters and exhibited activity in numerous pathways related to different steps of AD.
PXD046045	37894908	Proteome Analysis of Alpine Merino Sheep Skin Reveals New Insights into the Mechanisms Involved in Regulating Wool Fiber Diameter. 	Proteome analysis of Alpine Merino sheep skin reveals new insights into the mechanisms involved in regulating wool fiber diameter	Alpine Merino sheep, WGCNA, wool fiber diameter	Wool fiber is a textile material that is highly valued based on its diameter, which is crucial in determining its economic value. To analyze the molecular mechanisms regulating wool fiber diameter, we used a Data-independent acquisition-based quantitative proteomics approach to analyze the skin proteome of Alpine Merino sheep with four fiber diameter ranges. From three contrasts of defined groups, we identified 275, 229, and 190 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Further analysis using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways revealed that pathways associated with cyclic adenosine monophosphate and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor signaling are relevant to wool fiber diameter. Using the K-means method, we investigated the DEP expression patterns across wool diameter ranges. Using weighted gene co-expression network analysis, we identified seven key proteins (CIDEA, CRYM, MLX, TPST2, GPD1, GOPC, and CAMK2G) that may be involved in regulating wool fiber diameter. Our findings provide a theoretical foundation for identifying DEPs and pathways associated with wool fiber diameter in Alpine Merino sheep to enable a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the genetic regulation of wool fiber quality.
PXD040451	37895091	Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry Analysis of FFPE Rectal Cancer Samples Offers In-Depth Proteomics Characterization of the Response to Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy. 	Data independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) analysis of FFPE rectal cancer samples offers in depth proteomics characterization of response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy	data independent acquisition mass spectrometry, neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, rectal cancer	Locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) presents a challenge in identifying molecular markers linked to the response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT). This study aimed to utilize a sensitive proteomic method, data-independent mass spectrometry (DIA-MS), to extensively analyze the LARC proteome, seeking individuals with favorable initial responses suitable for a watch-and-wait approach. This research addresses the unmet need to understand the response to treatment, potentially guiding personalized strategies for LARC patients. Post-treatment assessment included MRI scans and proctoscopy. This research involved 97 LARC patients treated with intense chemoradiotherapy, comprising radiation and chemotherapy. Out of 97 LARC included in this study, we selected 20 samples with the most different responses to nCRT for proteome profiling (responders vs. non-responders). This proteomic approach shows extensive proteome coverage in LARC samples. The analysis identified a significant number of proteins compared to a prior study. A total of 915 proteins exhibited differential expression between the two groups, with certain signaling pathways associated with response mechanisms, while top candidates had good predictive potential. Proteins encoded by genes SMPDL3A, PCTP, LGMN, SYNJ2, NHLRC3, GLB1, and RAB43 showed high predictive potential of unfavorable treatment outcome, while RPA2, SARNP, PCBP2, SF3B2, HNRNPF, RBBP4, MAGOHB, DUT, ERG28, and BUB3 were good predictive biomarkers of favorable treatment outcome. The identified proteins and related biological processes provide promising insights that could enhance the management and care of LARC patients.
PXD045032	37895296	Loss of the KN Motif and AnKyrin Repeat Domain 1 (KANK1) Leads to Lymphoid Compartment Dysregulation in Murine Model. 	Loss of the NK Motif And AnKyrin Repeat Domain 1 (KANK1) leads to lymphoid compartment dysregulation in mice	LC-MS	The KN Motif and AnKyrin Repeat Domain 1 (KANK1) is proposed as a tumour suppressor gene, as its expression is reduced or absent in several types of tumour tissue, and over-expressing the protein inhibited the proliferation of tumour cells in solid cancer models. We report a novel germline loss of heterozygosity mutation encompassing the KANK1 gene in a young patient diagnosed with myelodysplastic neoplasm (MDS) with no additional disease-related genomic aberrations. To study the potential role of KANK1 in haematopoiesis, we generated a new transgenic mouse model with a confirmed loss of KANK1 expression. KANK1 knockout mice did not develop any haematological abnormalities; however, the loss of its expression led to alteration in the colony forming and proliferative potential of bone marrow (BM) cells and a decrease in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) population frequency. A comprehensive marker expression analysis of lineage cell populations indicated a role for Kank1 in lymphoid cell development, and total protein analysis suggests the involvement of Kank1 in BM cells' cytoskeleton formation and mobility.
PXD042784	37896006	Transcriptome and Proteome Association Analysis to Screen Candidate Genes Related to Salt Tolerance in Reaumuria soongorica Leaves under Salt Stress. 	Screening of candidate salt tolerance-related genes in Reaumuria soongorica leaves based on transcriptome-proteome correlation research techniques	Reaumuria soongorica, Salt stress, transcriptomic	This work aims at studying the molecular mechanisms underlying the response of Reaumuria soongorica to salt stress. We used RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) techniques to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in R. soongorica leaves treated with 0, 200, and 500 mM NaCl for 72 h. The results indicated that compared with the 0 mM NaCl treatment group, 2391 and 6400 DEGs were identified in the 200 and 500 mM NaCl treatment groups, respectively, while 47 and 177 DEPs were also identified. Transcriptome and proteome association analysis was further performed on R. soongorica leaves in the 0/500 mM NaCl treatment group, and 32 genes with consistent mRNA and protein expression trends were identified. SYP71, CS, PCC13-62, PASN, ZIFL1, CHS2, and other differential genes are involved in photosynthesis, vesicle transport, auxin transport, and other functions of plants, and might play a key role in the salt tolerance of R. soongorica. In this study, transcriptome and proteome association techniques were used to screen candidate genes associated with salt tolerance in R. soongorica, which provides an important theoretical basis for understanding the molecular mechanism of salt tolerance in R. soongorica and breeding high-quality germplasm resources.
PXD045849	37896067	Isolation and Characterization of Extracellular Vesicles from Arabidopsis thaliana Cell Culture and Investigation of the Specificities of Their Biogenesis. 	Isolation and characterization of extracellular vesicles from Arabidopsis thaliana cell culture and investigation of the specificities of their biogenesis	callus culture, exosomes, membrane trafficking, nanoparticles, salicylic acid	Over recent years, extracellular vesicles (EVs), commonly termed exosomes, have gained prominence for their potential as natural nanocarriers. It has now been recognized that plants also secrete EVs. Despite this discovery, knowledge about EV biogenesis in plant cell cultures remains limited. In our study, we have isolated and meticulously characterized EVs from the callus culture of the model plant, Arabidopsis thaliana. Our findings indicate that the abundance of EVs in calli was less than that in the plant's apoplastic fluid. This difference was associated with the transcriptional downregulation of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) genes in the calli cells. While salicylic acid increased the expression of ESCRT components, it did not enhance EV production. Notably, EVs from calli contained proteins essential for cell wall biogenesis and defense mechanisms, as well as microRNAs consistent with those found in intact plants. This suggests that plant cell cultures could serve as a feasible source of EVs that reflect the characteristics of the parent plant species. However, further research is essential to determine the optimal conditions for efficient EV production in these cultured cells.
PXD045477	37898598	The Lin28b/Wnt5a axis drives pancreas cancer through crosstalk between cancer associated fibroblasts and tumor epithelium. 	The Lin28b/Wnt5a axis drives pancreas cancer through crosstalk between cancer associated fibroblasts and tumor epithelium	Lin28b, Pcsk9, Wnt5a, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC)	Bidirectional signal transduction between tumor epithelial cells and tumor microenvironment (TME) is important for tumor development. Here we show that Lin28b/let-7 pathway is indispensable for modulating the expression of Wnt5a in tumor epithelium, which could be secreted and then up-regulates Lin28b in cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Moreover, we demonstrate that Lin28b in CAFs promoted growth of PDAC by inducing cytokine PCSK9's production. Using an orthotopic mouse model of PDAC, we find that depletion of Lin28b in CAFs reduced tumor weight, highlighting the importance of Lin28b in PDAC stroma. Thus, our study shows that the Lin28b-Wnt5a axis plays a critical role in bidirectional crosstalk between pancreatic tumor epithelium and TME and results in a pro-tumorigenic contexture.
PXD036016	37898615	Antiviral responses in a Jamaican fruit bat intestinal organoid model of SARS-CoV-2 infection. 	Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) Infection of Jamaican Fruit Bat Intestinal Epithelial Cells Induces Robust Interferon Activation	Covid-19, DIA, Jamaican fruit bats, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, interferon	Bats are natural reservoirs for several zoonotic viruses, potentially due to an enhanced capacity to control viral infection. However, the mechanisms of antiviral responses in bats are poorly defined. Here we established a Jamaican fruit bat (JFB, Artibeus jamaicensis) intestinal organoid model of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Upon infection with SARS-CoV-2, increased viral RNA and subgenomic RNA was detected, but no infectious virus was released, indicating that JFB organoids support only limited viral replication but not viral reproduction. SARS-CoV-2 replication was associated with significantly increased gene expression of type I interferons and inflammatory cytokines. Interestingly, SARS-CoV-2 also caused enhanced formation and growth of JFB organoids. Proteomics revealed an increase in inflammatory signaling, cell turnover, cell repair, and SARS-CoV-2 infection pathways. Collectively, our findings suggest that primary JFB intestinal epithelial cells mount successful antiviral interferon responses and that SARS-CoV-2 infection in JFB cells induces protective regenerative pathways.
PXD042182	37898787	Systems biology of industrial oxytetracycline production in Streptomyces rimosus: the secrets of a mutagenized hyperproducer. 	Multi-omics analysis of mutagenized S. rimosus reveals synergistic changes that drive oxytetracycline production towards industrial efficiency and opens a new route to heterologous polyketides	RNAseq, Streptomyces rimosus	BACKGROUND: Oxytetracycline which is derived from Streptomyces rimosus, inhibits a wide range of bacteria and is industrially important. The underlying biosynthetic processes are complex and hinder rational engineering, so industrial manufacturing currently relies on classical mutants for production. While the biochemistry underlying oxytetracycline synthesis is known to involve polyketide synthase, hyperproducing strains of S. rimosus have not been extensively studied, limiting our knowledge on fundamental mechanisms that drive production. RESULTS: In this study, a multiomics analysis of S. rimosus is performed and wild-type and hyperproducing strains are compared. Insights into the metabolic and regulatory networks driving oxytetracycline formation were obtained. The overproducer exhibited increased acetyl-CoA and malonyl CoA supply, upregulated oxytetracycline biosynthesis, reduced competing byproduct formation, and streamlined morphology. These features were used to synthesize bhimamycin, an antibiotic, and a novel microbial chassis strain was created. A cluster deletion derivative showed enhanced bhimamycin production. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that the precursor supply should be globally increased to further increase the expression of the oxytetracycline cluster while maintaining the natural cluster sequence. The mutagenized hyperproducer S. rimosus HP126 exhibited numerous mutations, including large genomic rearrangements, due to natural genetic instability, and single nucleotide changes. More complex mutations were found than those typically observed in mutagenized bacteria, impacting gene expression, and complicating rational engineering. Overall, the approach revealed key traits influencing oxytetracycline production in S. rimosus, suggesting that similar studies for other antibiotics could uncover general mechanisms to improve production.
PXD041789	37899138	Proteomic quantification of native and ECM-enriched mouse ovaries reveals an age-dependent fibro-inflammatory signature. 	Proteomic quantification of native and ECM-enriched mouse ovaries reveals an age-dependent fibro-inflammatory signature	data-independent acquisition, extracellular matrix, matrisome, ovary, reproductive aging	The ovarian microenvironment becomes fibrotic and stiff with age, in part due to increased collagen and decreased hyaluronan. However, the extracellular matrix (ECM) is a complex network of hundreds of proteins, glycoproteins, and glycans which are highly tissue specific and undergo pronounced changes with age. To obtain an unbiased and comprehensive profile of age-associated alterations to the murine ovarian proteome and ECM, we used a label-free quantitative proteomic methodology. We validated conditions to enrich for the ECM prior to proteomic analysis. Following analysis by data-independent acquisition (DIA) and quantitative data processing, we observed that both native and ECM-enriched ovaries clustered separately based on age, indicating distinct age-dependent proteomic signatures. We identified a total of 4,721 proteins from both native and ECM-enriched ovaries, of which 383 proteins were significantly altered with advanced age, including 58 ECM proteins. Several ECM proteins upregulated with age have been associated with fibrosis in other organs, but to date their roles in ovarian fibrosis are unknown. Pathways regulating DNA metabolism and translation were downregulated with age, whereas pathways involved in ECM remodeling and immune response were upregulated. Interestingly, immune-related pathways were upregulated with age even in ECM-enriched ovaries, suggesting a novel interplay between the ECM and the immune system. Moreover, we identified putative markers of unique immune cell populations present in the ovary with age. These findings provide evidence from a proteomic perspective that the aging ovary provides a fibroinflammatory milieu, and our study suggests target proteins which may drive these age-associated phenotypes for future investigation.
PXD045161	37902886	Exercise training decreases the load and changes the content of circulating SDS-resistant protein aggregates in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. 	Exercise training decreases the load and changes the content of circulating SDS-resistant protein aggregates in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction	HFrEF, exercise training, protein aggregates	BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) often disrupts the protein quality control (PQC) system leading to protein aggregate accumulation. Evidence from tissue biopsies showed that exercise restores PQC system in HF; however, little is known about its effects on plasma proteostasis. AIM: To determine the effects of exercise training on the load and composition of plasma SDS-resistant protein aggregates (SRA) in patients with HF with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). METHODS: Eighteen patients with HFrEF (age: 63.4 +/- 6.5 years; LVEF: 33.4 +/- 11.6%) participated in a 12-week combined (aerobic plus resistance) exercise program (60 min/session, twice per week). The load and content of circulating SRA were assessed using D2D SDS-PAGE and mass spectrometry. Cardiorespiratory fitness, quality of life, and circulating levels of high-sensitive C-reactive protein, N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), haptoglobin and ficolin-3, were also evaluated at baseline and after the exercise program. RESULTS: The exercise program decreased the plasma SRA load (% SRA/total protein: 38.0 +/- 8.9 to 36.1 +/- 9.7%, p = 0.018; % SRA/soluble fraction: 64.3 +/- 27.1 to 59.8 +/- 27.7%, p = 0.003). Plasma SRA of HFrEF patients comprised 31 proteins, with alpha-2-macroglobulin and haptoglobin as the most abundant ones. The exercise training significantly increased haptoglobin plasma levels (1.03 +/- 0.40 to 1.11 +/- 0.46, p = 0.031), while decreasing its abundance in SRA (1.83 +/- 0.54 x 10(11) to 1.51 +/- 0.59 x 10(11), p = 0.049). Cardiorespiratory fitness [16.4(5.9) to 19.0(5.2) ml/kg/min, p = 0.002], quality of life, and circulating NT-proBNP [720.0(850.0) to 587.0(847.3) pg/mL, p = 0.048] levels, also improved after the exercise program. CONCLUSION: Exercise training reduced the plasma SRA load and enhanced PQC, potentially via haptoglobin-mediated action, while improving cardiorespiratory fitness and quality of life of patients with HFrEF.
PXD042592	37903270	The CRL3(gigaxonin) ubiquitin ligase-USP15 pathway governs the destruction of neurofilament proteins. 	The CRL3gigaxonin ubiquitin ligase-USP15 pathway governs the destruction of neurofilament proteins	GAN, Gigaxonin, USP15, neurofilament	Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN) is caused by mutations in the GAN gene encoding for gigaxonin (GIG), which functions as an adaptor of the CUL3-RBX1-GIG (CRL3(GIG)) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. The pathological hallmark of GAN is characterized by the accumulation of densely packed neurofilaments (NFs) in the axons. However, there are fundamental knowledge gaps in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which the ubiquitin-proteasome system controls the homeostasis of NF proteins. Recently, the deubiquitylating enzyme USP15 was reported to play a crucial role in regulating ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation of CRL4(CRBN) substrate proteins. Here, we report that the CRL3(GIG)-USP15 pathway governs the destruction of NF proteins NEFL and INA. We identified a specific degron called NEFL(L12) degron for CRL3(GIG). Notably, mutations in the C-terminal Kelch domain of GIG, represented by L309R, R545C, and C570Y, disrupted the binding of GIG to NEFL and INA, leading to the accumulation of these NF proteins. This accounts for the loss-of-function mutations in GAN patients. In addition to regulating NFs, CRL3(GIG) also controls actin filaments by directly targeting actin-filament-binding regulatory proteins TPM1, TPM2, TAGLN, and CNN2 for proteasomal degradation. Thus, our findings broadly impact the field by providing fundamental mechanistic insights into regulating extremely long-lived NF proteins NEFL and INA by the CRL3(GIG)-USP15 pathway and offering previously unexplored therapeutic opportunities to treat GAN patients and other neurodegenerative diseases by explicitly targeting downstream substrates of CRL3(GIG).
PXD042648	37903905	Proteomic profile of naturally released extracellular vesicles secreted from Leptospira interrogans serovar Pomona in response to temperature and osmotic stresses. 	Deciphering the proteome of naturally released extracellular vesicles from Leptospira interrogans serovar Pomona in response to temperature and osmotic stresses	Extracellular vesicle, Leptospira, Leptospirosis, Osmotic stress, Quantitative proteomics	Bacterial extracellular vesicles (EVs) are generally formed by pinching off outer membrane leaflets while simultaneously releasing multiple active molecules into the external environment. In this study, we aimed to identify the protein cargo of leptospiral EVs released from intact leptospires grown under three different conditions: EMJH medium at 30 degreesC, temperature shifted to 37 degreesC, and physiologic osmolarity (EMJH medium with 120 mM NaCl). The naturally released EVs observed under transmission electron microscopy were spherical in shape with an approximate diameter of 80-100 nm. Quantitative proteomics and bioinformatic analysis indicated that the EVs were formed primarily from the outer membrane and the cytoplasm. The main functional COG categories of proteins carried in leptospiral EVs might be involved in cell growth, survival and adaptation, and pathogenicity. Relative to their abundance in EVs grown in EMJH medium at 30 degreesC, 39 and 69 proteins exhibited significant changes in response to the temperature shift and the osmotic change, respectively. During exposure to both stresses, Leptospira secreted several multifunctional proteins via EVs, while preserving certain virulence proteins within whole cells. Therefore, leptospiral EVs may serve as a decoy structure for host responses, whereas some virulence factors necessary for direct interaction with the host environment are reserved in leptospiral cells. This knowledge will be useful for understanding the pathogenesis of leptospirosis and developing as one of vaccine platforms against leptospirosis in the future.
PXD052786	37905015	Genome dilution by cell growth drives starvation-like proteome remodeling in mammalian and yeast cells. 	Genome dilution by cell growth drives starvation-like proteome remodeling in yeast and mammalian cells	SILAC, TMT	Cell size is tightly controlled in healthy tissues and single-celled organisms, but it remains unclear how size influences cell physiology. Increasing cell size was recently shown to remodel the proteomes of cultured human cells, demonstrating that large and small cells of the same type can be biochemically different. Here, we corroborate these results in mouse hepatocytes and extend our analysis using yeast. We find that size-dependent proteome changes are highly conserved and mostly independent of metabolic state. As eukaryotic cells grow larger, the dilution of the genome elicits a starvation-like proteome phenotype, suggesting that growth in large cells is limited by the genome in a manner analogous to a limiting nutrient. We also demonstrate that the proteomes of replicatively-aged yeast are primarily determined by their large size. Overall, our data suggest that genome concentration is a universal determinant of proteome content in growing cells.
PXD044671	37905571	MST2 methylation by PRMT5 inhibits Hippo signaling and promotes pancreatic cancer progression. 	SDMA-shotgun analysis in pancreatic cancer cell lines	MST2, PRMT5, dimerization, methylation, pancreatic cancer	The Hippo signaling axis is a tumor suppressor pathway that is activated by various extra-pathway factors to regulate cell differentiation and organ development. Recent studies have reported that autophosphorylation of the core kinase cassette stimulates activation of the Hippo signaling cascade. Here, we demonstrate that protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) contributes to inactivation of the Hippo signaling pathway in pancreatic cancer. We show that the Hippo pathway initiator serine/threonine kinase 3 (STK3, also known as MST2) of Hippo signaling pathway can be symmetrically di-methylated by PRMT5 at arginine-461 (R461) and arginine-467 (R467) in its SARAH domain. Methylation suppresses MST2 autophosphorylation and kinase activity by blocking its homodimerization, thereby inactivating Hippo signaling pathway in pancreatic cancer. Moreover, we also show that the specific PRMT5 inhibitor GSK3326595 re-activates the dysregulated Hippo signaling pathway and inhibits the growth of human pancreatic cancer xenografts in immunodeficient mice, thus suggesting potential clinical application of PRMT5 inhibitors in pancreatic cancer.
PXD040673	37905694	Zhi Zi Chi decoction (Gardeniae fructus and semen Sojae Praeparatum) attenuates anxious depression via modulating microbiota-gut-brain axis in corticosterone combined with chronic restraint stress-induced mice. 	Zhizi Chi (Gardeniae Fructus and Semen Sojae Praeparatum) Decoction attenuates anxious depression via modulation of intestinal bacteria and reward nerve center	Anxious depression, Brain-gut axis, Gardeniae Fructus and Semen Sojae Praeparatum Decoction, Intestinal flora, Nucleus accumben	BACKGROUND: The microbiota-gut-brain axis plays a critical role in neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly anxious depression, and attracts more attention gradually. Zhi Zi Chi decoction (ZZCD) consisting of Gardenia jasminoides J. Ellis and Glycine max (L.) Merr, is a classic formula in clinic and widely applied in anxiety and depression treatment. However, the underlying mechanisms of regulating microbiota-gut-brain axis in the treatment of anxious depression by oral administration of ZZCD remain elusive. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this project, we clarified the origin and preparation methods of the Gardenia jasminoides J. Ellis and Glycine max (L.) Merr and examined the chemical ingredients of ZZCD by liquid chromatograph mass spectrometer. Then, corticosterone combined with chronic restraint stress was applied to establish an anxious depression model. After treated with ZZCD standard decoction, based on enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), 16S rRNA technology, high-throughput sequencing, quantitative RT-PCR and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), the multiple associations between nucleus accumbens and intestinal flora in anxious depression mice were determined to clarify the mechanism of ZZCD in the treatment of anxiety and depression disorder. RESULTS: We found various substances with antidepressant and antianxiety properties in ZZCD such as rosiridin and oleanolic acid. ZZCD could alleviate depressive and anxiety behaviors in anxious depression mice via regulating the disturbance of gut microbiota. Meanwhile, the bioactive compounds of ZZCD might directly active on neurodevelopment and neuroimmune-related genes. Furthermore, the secretion of prolactin and estrogen, and interfering with mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways were mainly involved in the multi-target therapeutic effects of ZZCD against anxiety and depression. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggested that ZZCD exerts antidepressant effects pleiotropically through modulating the microbiota-gut-brain.
PXD034818	37906288	Breast cancer immunopeptidomes contain numerous shared tumor antigens. 	LC-MSMS of primary breast cancer samples	Breast cancer, MHC class I, immunopeptidome	Hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer (HR+) is immunologically cold and has not benefited from advances in immunotherapy. In contrast, subsets of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) display high leukocytic infiltration and respond to checkpoint blockade. CD8+T cells, the main effectors of anti-cancer responses, recognize MHC I-associated peptides (MAPs). Our work aimed to characterize the repertoire of MAPs presented by HR+ and TNBC tumors. Using mass spectrometry, we identified 57,094 unique MAPs in 26 primary breast cancer samples. MAP source genes highly overlapped between both subtypes (>70%). We identified 25 tumor-specific antigens (TSAs) mainly deriving from aberrantly expressed regions. TSAs were most frequently identified in TNBC samples (70%) and were more shared among TCGA TNBC than HR+ samples. In the TNBC cohort, the predicted number of TSAs positively correlated with leukocytic infiltration (p<0.05) and overall survival (p<0.05), supporting their immunogenicity in vivo. We detected 49 tumor-associated antigens, some of which derived from cancer-associated fibroblasts. Functional expansion of specific T cell assays confirmed the in vitro immunogenicity of several TSAs and TAAs. Our study identified attractive targets for cancer immunotherapy in both breast cancer subtypes. The higher prevalence of TSAs in TNBC tumors provides a rationale for their responsiveness to checkpoint blockade.
PXD045945	37906592	PD-L1-mediated immune evasion in triple-negative breast cancer is linked to the loss of ZNF652. 	PD-L1 Mediated Immune Evasion in Triple Negative Breast Cancer Is Linked to the Loss of ZNF652	Cancer immune evasion, PD-L1, ZNF652, breast cancer, transcription repression	The intrinsic regulation of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) expression remains unclear. Here, we report that zinc-finger protein 652 (ZNF652) is a potent transcription repressor of PD-L1. ZNF652 frequently experiences loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in various cancers. Higher LOH rate and lack of estrogen-inducible transcription lead to suppressed expression of ZNF652 in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Mechanistically, ZNF652 is physically associated with the NuRD transcription co-repressor complex to repress a cohort of genes, including PD-L1. Overexpression of ZNF652 inhibits PD-L1 transcription, whereas depletion of ZNF652 upregulates PD-L1. Loss of ZNF652 in TNBC unleashes PD-L1-mediated immune evasion both in vitro and in vivo. Significantly, ZNF652 expression is progressively lost during breast cancer progression, and a low ZNF652 level is correlated with elevated PD-L1 expression, less infiltrated CD8(+) T cells, and poor prognosis in TNBC. Our study provides insights into PD-L1 regulation and supports the pursuit of ZNF652 as a potential biomarker and drug target for breast cancer immunotherapy.
PXD045349	37907539	Low-melting point agarose as embedding medium for MALDI mass spectrometry imaging and laser-capture microdissection-based proteomics. 	Low-melting point agarose as embedding medium for MALDI mass spectrometry imaging and laser-capture microdissection-based proteomics	Embedding media, MALDI MSI, laser-capture microdissection	The combination of MALDI mass spectrometry imaging, laser-capture microdissection, and quantitative proteomics allows the identification and characterization of molecularly distinct tissue compartments. Such workflows are typically performed using consecutive tissue sections, and so reliable sectioning and mounting of high-quality tissue sections is a prerequisite of such investigations. Embedding media facilitate the sectioning process but can introduce contaminants which may adversely affect either the mass spectrometry imaging or proteomics analyses. Seven low-temperature embedding media were tested in terms of embedding temperature and cutting performance. The two media that provided the best results (5% gelatin and 2% low-melting point agarose) were compared with non-embedded tissue by both MALDI mass spectrometry imaging of lipids and laser-capture microdissection followed by bottom-up proteomics. Two out of the seven tested media (5% gelatin and 2% low-melting point agarose) provided the best performances on terms of mechanical properties. These media allowed for low-temperature embedding and for the collection of high-quality consecutive sections. Comparisons with non-embedded tissues revealed that both embedding media had no discernable effect on proteomics analysis; 5% gelatin showed a light ion suppression effect in the MALDI mass spectrometry imaging experiments, 2% agarose performed similarly to the non-embedded tissue. 2% low-melting point agarose is proposed for tissue embedding in experiments involving MALDI mass spectrometry imaging of lipids and laser-capture microdissection, proteomics of consecutive tissue sections.
PXD044438	37908193	Potential mechanism of the AgNCs-hydrogel in promoting the regeneration of diabetic infectious wounds. 	Skin proteomics reveals the potential mechanism of AgNCs-hydrogel in promoting the regeneration of diabetic infectious wounds	DNA hydrogel, Diabetic wound healing, Silver nanoclusters, Skin proteomics	Diabetic infectious wound treatment is challenging due to insistent wound infections. To treat such complicated pathological diabetic infectious wounds, multifunctional materials need to be developed, and their mechanisms need to be understood. Here, we developed a material termed AgNCs-hydrogel, which is a multifunctional DNA hydrogel used as dressings by integrating it with antibacterial silver nanoclusters. The AgNCs-hydrogel was applied to promote the regeneration of diabetic infectious wounds in mice because it exhibited superior antibacterial activity and effective ROS-scavenging properties. Based on skin proteomics, we explored the potential mechanism of the AgNCs-hydrogel in treating mouse skin wounds. We found that the AgNCs-hydrogel can regulate some key proteins located primarily in the extracellular exosomes, involved in the negative regulation of the apoptotic process, and perform ATP binding to accelerate diabetic infected wound closure. Therefore, this study provided a multifunctional AgNCs-hydrogel and revealed its potential mechanism in promoting the regeneration of diabetic infectious wounds.
PXD042914	37909039	Targeting intracellular oncoproteins with dimeric IgA promotes expulsion from the cytoplasm and immune-mediated control of epithelial cancers. 	Dimeric IgA specifically disables intracellular mutated oncodrivers	Immunoglobulin A, cancer, therapeutic antibodies, transcytosis	Dimeric IgA (dIgA) can move through cells via the IgA/IgM polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR), which is expressed mainly on mucosal epithelia. Here, we studied the ability of dIgA to target commonly mutated cytoplasmic oncodrivers. Mutation-specific dIgA, but not IgG, neutralized KRAS(G12D) within ovarian carcinoma cells and expelled this oncodriver from tumor cells. dIgA binding changed endosomal trafficking of KRAS(G12D) from accumulation in recycling endosomes to aggregation in the early/late endosomes through which dIgA transcytoses. dIgA targeting of KRAS(G12D) abrogated tumor cell proliferation in cell culture assays. In vivo, KRAS(G12D)-specific dIgA1 limited the growth of KRAS(G12D)-mutated ovarian and lung carcinomas in a manner dependent on CD8(+) T cells. dIgA specific for IDH1(R132H) reduced colon cancer growth, demonstrating effective targeting of a cytoplasmic oncodriver not associated with surface receptors. dIgA targeting of KRAS(G12D) restricted tumor growth more effectively than small-molecule KRAS(G12D) inhibitors, supporting the potential of this approach for the treatment of human cancers.
PXD039902	37909056	Differential proteome profiling of bacterial culture supernatants reveals candidates for the induction of oral immune priming in the red flour beetle. 	Differential proteome profiling of bacterial culture supernatants reveals candidates for the induction of oral immune priming in the Red Flour Beetle	Bacillus thuringiensis, Cry3Aa, Insects, Secretome, Tribolium castaneum, immune priming	Most organisms are host to symbionts and pathogens, which led to the evolution of immune strategies to prevent harm. Whilst the immune defences of vertebrates are classically divided into innate and adaptive, insects lack specialized cells involved in adaptive immunity, but have been shown to exhibit immune priming: the enhanced survival upon infection after a first exposure to the same pathogen or pathogen-derived components. An important piece of the puzzle are the pathogen-associated molecules that induce these immune priming responses. Here, we make use of the model system consisting of the red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum) and its bacterial pathogen Bacillus thuringiensis, to compare the proteomes of culture supernatants of two closely related B. thuringiensis strains that either induce priming via the oral route, or not. Among the proteins that might be immunostimulatory to T. castaneum, we identify the Cry3Aa toxin, an important plasmid-encoded virulence factor of B. thuringiensis. In further priming-infection assays we test the relevance of Cry-carrying plasmids for immune priming. Our findings provide valuable insights for future studies to perform experiments on the mechanisms and evolution of immune priming.
PXD044306	37910662	Identifying Sex-Specific Serum Patterns of Alzheimer's Mice through Deep TMT Profiling and a Concentration-Dependent Concatenation Strategy. 	Deep serum proteomics detects sex-influenced signature in a murine model of Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, biomarker, plasma, serum, tandem mass tag	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia, disproportionately affecting women in disease prevalence and progression. Comprehensive analysis of the serum proteome in a common AD mouse model offers potential in identifying possible AD pathology- and gender-associated biomarkers. Here, we introduce a multiplexed, nondepleted mouse serum proteome profiling via tandem mass-tag (TMTpro) labeling. The labeled sample was separated into 475 fractions using basic reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RPLC), which were categorized into low-, medium-, and high-concentration fractions for concatenation. This concentration-dependent concatenation strategy resulted in 128 fractions for acidic RPLC-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis, collecting ~5 million MS/MS scans and identifying 3972 unique proteins (3413 genes) that cover a dynamic range spanning at least 6 orders of magnitude. The differential expression analysis between wild type and the commonly used AD model (5xFAD) mice exhibited minimal significant protein alterations. However, we detected 60 statistically significant (FDR < 0.05), sex-specific proteins, including complement components, serpins, carboxylesterases, major urinary proteins, cysteine-rich secretory protein 1, pregnancy-associated murine protein 1, prolactin, amyloid P component, epidermal growth factor receptor, fibrinogen-like protein 1, and hepcidin. The results suggest that our platform possesses the sensitivity and reproducibility required to detect sex-specific differentially expressed proteins in mouse serum samples.
PXD039914	37910801	Phosphoproteomics and Morphology of Stored Human Red Blood Cells Treated by Protein-Tyrosine-Phosphatases Inhibitor. 	Phosphoproteomics and Morphology of Red Blood Cells treated by Protein-Tyrosine-Phosphatases Inhibitor	Protein tyrosine phosphorylation, digital holographic microscopy, kinase inhibitors, storage of red blood cells, transfusion medicine.	The process of protein phosphorylation is involved in numerous cell functions. In particular, phosphotyrosine (pY) has been reported to play a role in red blood cell (RBC) functions, including the cytoskeleton organization. During their storage before transfusion, RBCs suffer from storage lesions that affect their energy metabolism and morphology. The present study investigated the relationship between the pY and the storage lesions. To do so, RBCs were treated (in the absence of calcium) with a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor (orthovanadate, OV) to stimulate phosphorylation, and with three selective kinase inhibitors (KIs). Erythrocyte membrane proteins were studied by Western blot analyses and phosphoproteomics (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD039914), and cell morphology by digital holographic microscopy. The increase of pY triggered by OV treatment (inducing a global downregulation of pS and pT) disappeared during the storage. Phosphoproteomic analysis identified 609 phosphoproteins containing 1'752 phosphosites, of which 41 pY were upregulated and 2 downregulated by OV. Following these phosphorylation processes, the shape of RBCs shifted from discocytes to spherocytes, and the addition of KIs partially inhibited this transition. The KIs modulated either pY, or pS and pT via diverse mechanisms related to cell shape, therefore all an impact on the RBC morphology. The capacity of RBCs to maintain their function is central in transfusion medicine, and the presented results contribute to a better understanding of RBC biology.
PXD040753	37913771	Photoaffinity labeling coupled with proteomics identify PDI-ADAM17 module is targeted by (-)-vinigrol to induce TNFR1 shedding and ameliorate rheumatoid arthritis in mice. 	()-Vinigrol Targets PDI-ADAM17 Module to Induce TNFR1 Shedding and Ameliorate Rheumatoid Arthritis in Mice	Vinigrol,rheumatoid arthritis,Protein Disulfide Isomerase,TNFR1 shedding	Various biological agents have been developed to target tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and its receptor TNFR1 for the rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment, whereas small molecules modulating such cytokine receptors are rarely reported in comparison to the biologicals. Here, by revealing the mechanism of action of vinigrol, a diterpenoid natural product, we show that inhibition of the protein disulfide isomerase (PDI, PDIA1) by small molecules activates A disintegrin and metalloprotease 17 (ADAM17) and then leads to the TNFR1 shedding on mouse and human cell membranes. This small-molecule-induced receptor shedding not only effectively blocks the inflammatory response caused by TNF-alpha in cells, but also reduces the arthritic score and joint damage in the collagen-induced arthritis mouse model. Our study indicates that targeting the PDI-ADAM17 signaling module to regulate the shedding of cytokine receptors by the chemical approach constitutes a promising strategy for alleviating RA.
PXD037412	37913978	Molecular fingerprint of gilthead seabream physiology in response to pollutant mixtures in the wild. 	LC-MSMS analysis of muscle in the gilt-head sea bream depending on pollutant levels	Fish, Health biomarker, Pollution, quantitative proteomics	The increase in trace element concentrations in the aquatic environment due to anthropogenic activities, urges the need for their monitoring and potential toxicity, persistence, bioaccumulation, and biomagnification at different trophic levels. Gilthead seabream is a species of commercial importance in the Mediterranean Sea, both for the aquaculture and fisheries sectors, however very little is known about their trace element contamination accumulation and the resulting effect on their health status. In the present study, 135 juveniles were collected from seven coastal lagoons known to be essential nursery areas for this species. We measured seventeen different inorganic contaminants at the individual level in fish muscle (namely Al, As, Be, Bi, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Li, Ni, Pb, Rb, Sb, Sr, Ti, Tl and Zn). Our results revealed the accumulation of multiple trace elements in individuals and distinct contamination signatures between lagoons which might lead to contrasted quality as nurseries for juveniles of numerous ecologically and economically relevant fish species in addition to seabreams. We further evaluated the potential adverse effect of these complex contamination mixtures on the liver (the main organ implicated in the metabolism of xenobiotics) and red muscle (a highly metabolic organ) using a proteomic approach. Alterations in cellular organization pathways and protein transport were detected in both tissues (albeit they were not similarly regulated). Chromosome organization and telomere maintenance in the liver appeared to be affected by contaminant mixture which could increase mortality, age-related disease risk and shorter lifetime expectancy for these juveniles. Red muscle proteome also demonstrated an upregulation of pathways involved in metabolism in response to contamination which raises the issue of potential energy allocation trade-offs between the organisms' main functions such as reproduction and growth. This study provides new insights into the cellular and molecular responses of seabreams to environmental pollution and proposed biomarkers of health effects of trace elements that could serve as a starting point for larger-scale biomonitoring programs.
PXD042344	37914940	iPS-cell-derived microglia promote brain organoid maturation via cholesterol transfer. 	Microglia and brain organoids 	LFQ, brain organoids, microglia	Microglia are specialized brain-resident macrophages that arise from primitive macrophages colonizing the embryonic brain(1). Microglia contribute to multiple aspects of brain development, but their precise roles in the early human brain remain poorly understood owing to limited access to relevant tissues(2-6). The generation of brain organoids from human induced pluripotent stem cells recapitulates some key features of human embryonic brain development(7-10). However, current approaches do not incorporate microglia or address their role in organoid maturation(11-21). Here we generated microglia-sufficient brain organoids by coculturing brain organoids with primitive-like macrophages generated from the same human induced pluripotent stem cells (iMac)(22). In organoid cocultures, iMac differentiated into cells with microglia-like phenotypes and functions (iMicro) and modulated neuronal progenitor cell (NPC) differentiation, limiting NPC proliferation and promoting axonogenesis. Mechanistically, iMicro contained high levels of PLIN2(+) lipid droplets that exported cholesterol and its esters, which were taken up by NPCs in the organoids. We also detected PLIN2(+) lipid droplet-loaded microglia in mouse and human embryonic brains. Overall, our approach substantially advances current human brain organoid approaches by incorporating microglial cells, as illustrated by the discovery of a key pathway of lipid-mediated crosstalk between microglia and NPCs that leads to improved neurogenesis.
PXD043704	37916217	The response to fasting and refeeding reveals functional regulation of lipoprotein lipase proteoforms. 	The response to fasting and refeeding reveals functional regulation of lipoprotein lipase proteoforms	lipid metabolism, lipoprotein lipase, proteoform, tissue-specific regulation	Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is responsible for the intravascular catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and plays a central role in whole-body energy balance and lipid homeostasis. As such, LPL is subject to tissue-specific regulation in different physiological conditions, but the mechanisms of this regulation remain incompletely characterized. Previous work revealed that LPL comprises a set of proteoforms with different isoelectric points, but their regulation and functional significance have not been studied thus far. Here we studied the distribution of LPL proteoforms in different rat tissues and their regulation under physiological conditions. First, analysis by two-dimensional electrophoresis and Western blot showed different patterns of LPL proteoforms (i.e., different pI or relative abundance of LPL proteoforms) in different rat tissues under basal conditions, which could be related to the tissue-specific regulation of the enzyme. Next, the comparison of LPL proteoforms from heart and brown adipose tissue between adults and 15-day-old rat pups, two conditions with minimal regulation of LPL in these tissues, yielded virtually the same tissue-specific patterns of LPL proteoforms. In contrast, the pronounced downregulation of LPL activity observed in white adipose tissue during fasting is accompanied by a prominent reconfiguration of the LPL proteoform pattern. Furthermore, refeeding reverts this downregulation of LPL activity and restores the pattern of LPL proteoforms in this tissue. Importantly, this reversible proteoform-specific regulation during fasting and refeeding indicates that LPL proteoforms are functionally diverse. Further investigation of potential differences in the functional properties of LPL proteoforms showed that all proteoforms exhibit lipolytic activity and have similar heparin-binding affinity, although other functional aspects remain to be investigated. Overall, this study demonstrates the ubiquity, differential distribution and specific regulation of LPL proteoforms in rat tissues and underscores the need to consider the existence of LPL proteoforms for a complete understanding of LPL regulation under physiological conditions.
PXD026979	37916607	Integrative modeling of guanylate binding protein dimers. 	Dynamics of different mGBP as revealed by computational and experimental methods	crosslinking, dimerisation, dynamin superfamily proteins, infection, mGBP7, protein dynamics	Guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) are essential interferon-gamma-activated large GTPases that play a crucial role in host defense against intracellular bacteria and parasites. While their protective functions rely on protein polymerization, our understanding of the structural intricacies of these multimerized states remains limited. To bridge this knowledge gap, we present dimer models for human GBP1 (hGBP1) and murine GBP2 and 7 (mGBP2 and mGBP7) using an integrative approach, incorporating the crystal structure of hGBP1's GTPase domain dimer, crosslinking mass spectrometry, small-angle X-ray scattering, protein-protein docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. Our investigation begins by comparing the protein dynamics of hGBP1, mGBP2, and mGBP7. We observe that the M/E domain in all three proteins exhibits significant mobility and hinge motion, with mGBP7 displaying a slightly less pronounced motion but greater flexibility in its GTPase domain. These dynamic distinctions can be attributed to variations in the sequences of mGBP7 and hGBP1/mGBP2, resulting in different dimerization modes. Unlike hGBP1 and its close ortholog mGBP2, which exclusively dimerize through their GTPase domains, we find that mGBP7 exhibits three equally probable alternative dimer structures. The GTPase domain of mGBP7 is only partially involved in its dimerization, primarily due to an accumulation of negative charge, allowing mGBP7 to dimerize independently of GTP. Instead, mGBP7 exhibits a strong tendency to dimerize in an antiparallel arrangement across its stalks. The results of this work go beyond the sequence-structure-function relationship, as the sequence differences in mGBP7 and mGBP2/hGBP1 do not lead to different structures, but to different protein dynamics and dimerization. The distinct GBP dimer structures are expected to encode specific functions crucial for disrupting pathogen membranes.
PXD041171	37916830	Sirtuin 2 promotes human cytomegalovirus replication by regulating cell cycle progression. 	Sirtuin 2 Promotes HCMV Replication by Regulating Cell Cycle Progression	acetylation, cell cycle, human cytomegalovirus, protein-protein interactions, sirtuin 2	The ability to modulate host cell cycle progression is a requirement of many human viruses in order to facilitate their replication and propagation. Nuclear-replicating DNA viruses frequently stall the host cell cycle in G1 to avoid competition with host DNA replication. Among these viruses is human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), a prevalent beta-herpesvirus. Here, we discover a pro-viral mechanism that employs the deacetylase activity of the human enzyme sirtuin 2 (SIRT2) for HCMV-mediated cell cycle dysregulation. First, we show that the SIRT2 deacetylase activity supports an early stage of HCMV replication. Focusing on these early infection time points, we next define temporal SIRT2 protein interactions and deacetylation substrates by using mass spectrometry-based interactome and acetylome analyses. We find that SIRT2 interacts with and modulates the acetylation level of cell cycle proteins during infection, including the cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2). Using flow cytometry, cell sorting, and functional assays, we demonstrate that SIRT2 regulates CDK2 K6 acetylation and the G1- to S-phase transition in a manner that supports HCMV replication. Altogether, our findings expand the understanding of mechanisms underlying HCMV-induced cell cycle dysregulation and point toward regulatory feedback between SIRT2 and CDK2 that can have implications in other viral infections and human diseases.IMPORTANCEThis study expands the growing understanding that protein acetylation is a highly regulated molecular toggle of protein function in both host anti-viral defense and viral replication. We describe a pro-viral role for the human enzyme SIRT2, showing that its deacetylase activity supports HCMV replication. By integrating quantitative proteomics, flow cytometry cell cycle assays, microscopy, and functional virology assays, we investigate the temporality of SIRT2 functions and substrates. We identify a pro-viral role for the SIRT2 deacetylase activity via regulation of CDK2 K6 acetylation and the G1-S cell cycle transition. These findings highlight a link between viral infection, protein acetylation, and cell cycle progression.
PXD050577	37916932	Risk stratification of papillary thyroid cancers using multidimensional machine learning. 	Risk stratification of thyroid papillary cancer based on proteomics and machine learning	Papillary thyroid carcinoma, machine learning, risk stratification	BACKGROUND: Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) is one of the most common endocrine malignancies with different risk levels. However, preoperative risk assessment of PTC is still a challenge in the worldwide. Here, we first report a Preoperative Risk Assessment Classifier for PTC (PRAC-PTC) by multidimensional features including clinical indicators, immune indices, genetic feature, and proteomics. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The 558 patients collected from June 2013 to November 2020 were allocated to three groups: discovery set (274 patients, 274 FFPE), retrospective test set (166 patients, 166 FFPE) and prospective test set (118 patients, 118 FNA). Proteomic profiling was conducted by formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) and fine-needle aspiration (FNA) tissues from the patients. Preoperative clinical information and blood immunological indices were collected. The BRAFV600E mutation were detected by the amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS). RESULTS: We developed a machine learning model of 17 variables based on multidimensional features of 274 PTC patients from a retrospective cohort. The PRAC-PTC achieved areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.925 in the discovery set and validated externally by blinded analyses in a retrospective cohort of 166 PTC patients (0.787 AUC) and a prospective cohort of 118 PTC patients (0.799 AUC) from two independent clinical centres. Meanwhile, the preoperative predictive risk effectiveness of clinicians was improved with the assistance of PRAC-PTC, and the accuracies reached at 84.4% (95% CI 82.9-84.4) and 83.5% (95% CI 82.2-84.2) in the retrospective and prospective test sets, respectively. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that the PRAC-PTC that integrating clinical data, gene mutation information, immune indices, high-throughput proteomics and machine learning technology in multi-centre retrospective and prospective clinical cohorts can effectively stratify the preoperative risk of PTC and may decrease unnecessary surgery or overtreatment.
PXD040876	37918454	Liver transcriptomic and proteomic analyses provide new insight into the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis in mice. 	Global quantitative analysis of proteomic of mice with liver fibrosis based on DIA and PRM technology	data independent acquisition, liver fibrosis, parallel reaction monitoring	BACKGROUND: Liver fibrosis (LF) is a kind of progressive liver injury reaction. The goal of this study was to achieve a more detailed understanding of the molecular changes in response to CCl4-induced LF through the identification of a differentially expressed liver transcriptomic and proteomic. RESULTS: A total of 1224 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 302 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were significantly identified at the transcriptomic and proteomic level, respectively, and 69 genes (hereafter "cor-DEGs-DEPs" genes) were detected at both levels. Pathway enrichment analysis showed that these cor-DEGs-DEPs genes were significantly enriched in 133 pathways. Importantly, among the cor-DEGs-DEPs genes, Gstm1, Gstm3, Ephx1 and Gstp1 were shown to be associated with metabolic pathways, and confirmed by RT-qPCR and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) verification. CONCLUSIONS: Through the combined analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic data, this study provides valuable insights into the potential mechanism of the pathogenesis of LF, and lays a theoretical foundation for the further development of targeted therapy for LF.
PXD037776	37918959	E4F1 and ZNF148 are transcriptional activators of the -57A > C and wild-type TERT promoter. 	E4F1 and ZNF148 are transcriptional activators of the A57C and wildtype TERT promoter	E4F1, TERT promoter mutations, ZNF148, telomerase	Point mutations within the TERT promoter are the most recurrent somatic noncoding mutations identified across different cancer types, including glioblastoma, melanoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, and bladder cancer. They are most abundant at -146C > T and -124C > T, and rarer at -57A > C, with the latter originally described as a familial case, but subsequently shown also to occur somatically. All three mutations create de novo E26-specific (ETS) binding sites and result in activation of the TERT gene, allowing cancer cells to achieve replicative immortality. Here, we used a systematic proteomics screen to identify transcription factors preferentially binding to the -146C > T, -124C > T, and -57A > C mutations. Although we confirmed binding of multiple ETS factors to the mutant -146C > T and -124C > T sequences, we identified E4F1 as a -57A > C-specific binder and ZNF148 as a TERT wild-type (WT) promoter binder that showed reduced interaction with the -124C > T allele. Both proteins are activating transcription factors that bind specifically to the -57A > C and WT (at position 124) TERT promoter sequence in corresponding cell lines, and up-regulate TERT transcription and telomerase activity. Our work describes new regulators of TERT gene expression with possible roles in cancer.
PXD039685	37919246	Bioaerosols in swine confinement buildings: A metaproteomic view. 	Bioaerosols in swine confinement buildings: A metaproteomic view	bioaerosol, pig	Swine confinement buildings represent workplaces with high biological air pollution. It is suspected that individual components of inhalable air are causatives of chronic respiratory disease that are regularly detected among workers. In order to understand the relationship between exposure and stress, it is necessary to study the components of bioaerosols in more detail. For this purpose, bioaerosols from pig barns were collected on quartz filters and analysed via a combinatorial approach of 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing and metaproteomics. The study reveals the presence of peptides from pigs, their feed and microorganisms. The proportion of fungal peptides detected is considered to be underrepresented compared to bacterial peptides. In addition, the metaproteomic workflow enabled functional predictions about the discovered peptides. Housekeeping proteins were found in particular, but also evidence for the presence of bacterial virulence factors (e.g., serralysin-like metalloprotease) as well as plant (e.g., chitinase) and fungal allergens (e.g., alt a10). Metaproteomic analyses can thus be used to identify factors that may be relevant to the health of pig farmers. Accordingly, such studies could be used in the future to assess the adverse health potential of an occupationally relevant bioaerosol and help consider defined protective strategies for workers.
PXD045069	37919786	Herbal medicine formula Huazhuo Tiaozhi granule ameliorates dyslipidaemia via regulating histone lactylation and miR-155-5p biogenesis. 	Human liver cell line LO2 LC-MS/MS	liver cell	BACKGROUND: Huazhuo Tiaozhi granule (HTG) is a herbal medicine formula widely used in clinical practice for hypolipidaemic effects. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying dyslipidaemia treatment have not been well elucidated. RESULTS: A significant reduction in the levels of total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) was observed in the serum of patients with dyslipidaemia after HTG treatment, without disruption in the levels of aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine (Cr). The dyslipidaemia rat model was induced by a high-fat diet and treated with Xuezhikang (0.14 g/kg/d) or HTG (9.33 g crude herb/kg/day) by gavage for 8 weeks. Body weight and liver index were markedly decreased in dyslipidaemic rats after treatment with Xuezhikang or HTG. HTG administration markedly ameliorated hyperlipidaemia by decreasing the levels of TC and LDL-C in serum and hepatic lipid accumulation. In vitro, lipid accumulation in LO2 and HepG2 cells was alleviated by serum treatment with HTG. High lactylation was observed in 198 proteins, including lactylation of histone H2B (K6), H4 (K80). Deep sequencing of microRNAs showed that miR-155-5p was significantly downregulated. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that HTG is an effective and safe formula for treating dyslipidaemia, which promotes lactylation in hepatocytes, and the retardation of miR-155-5p biogenesis.
PXD044945	37920345	Metal organic layers enabled cell surface engineering coupling biomembrane fusion for dynamic membrane proteome profiling. 	Metal organic layers enabled cell surface engineering coupling biomembrane fusion for dynamic membrane proteome profiling	Membrane proteinenrichmentmetal organic layersproteome	Systematically dissecting the highly dynamic and tightly communicating membrane proteome of living cells is essential for the system-level understanding of fundamental cellular processes and intricate relationship between membrane-bound organelles constructed through membrane traffic. While extensive efforts have been made to enrich membrane proteins, their comprehensive analysis with high selectivity and deep coverage remains a challenge, especially at the living cell state. To address this problem, we developed the cell surface engineering coupling biomembrane fusion method to map the whole membrane proteome from the plasma membrane to various organelle membranes taking advantage of the exquisite interaction between two-dimensional metal-organic layers and phospholipid bilayers on the membrane. This approach, which bypassed conventional biochemical fractionation and ultracentrifugation, facilitated the enrichment of membrane proteins in their native phospholipid bilayer environment, helping to map the membrane proteome with a specificity of 77% and realizing the deep coverage of the HeLa membrane proteome (5087 membrane proteins). Furthermore, membrane N-phosphoproteome was profiled by integrating the N-phosphoproteome analysis strategy, and the dynamic membrane proteome during apoptosis was deciphered in combination with quantitative proteomics. The features of membrane protein N-phosphorylation modifications and many differential proteins during apoptosis associated with mitochondrial dynamics and ER homeostasis were found. The method provided a simple and robust strategy for efficient analysis of membrane proteome, offered a reliable platform for research on membrane-related cell dynamic events and expanded the application of metal-organic layers.
PXD045966	37920471	Direct interaction of the molecular chaperone GRP78/BiP with the Newcastle disease virus hemagglutinin-neuraminidase protein plays a vital role in viral attachment to and infection of culture cells. 	Mass spectrum data X101SC21093775-Z01	NDV, protein data	Introduction: Glucose Regulated Proteins/Binding protein (GRP78/Bip), a representative molecular chaperone, effectively influences and actively participates in the replication processes of many viruses. Little is known, however, about the functional involvement of GRP78 in the replication of Newcastle disease virus (NDV) and the underlying mechanisms. Methods: The method of this study are to establish protein interactomes between host cell proteins and the NDV Hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) protein, and to systematically investigate the regulatory role of the GRP78-HN protein interaction during the NDV replication cycle. Results: Our study revealed that GRP78 is upregulated during NDV infection, and its direct interaction with HN is mediated by the N-terminal 326 amino acid region. Knockdown of GRP78 by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) significantly suppressed NDV infection and replication. Conversely, overexpression of GRP78 resulted in a significant increase in NDV replication, demonstrating its role as a positive regulator in the NDV replication cycle. We further showed that the direct interaction between GRP78 and HN protein enhanced the attachment of NDV to cells, and masking of GRP78 expressed on the cell surface with specific polyclonal antibodies (pAbs) inhibited NDV attachment and replication. Discussion: These findings highlight the essential role of GRP78 in the adsorption stage during the NDV infection cycle, and, importantly, identify the critical domain required for GRP78-HN interaction, providing novel insights into the molecular mechanisms involved in NDV replication and infection.
PXD040470	37920665	Characterizing the extracellular vesicle proteomic landscape of the human airway using in vitro organotypic multi-cellular models. 	Proteomics Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles from In Vitro Models of the Human Airway.	In vitro models, cell signaling, extracellular vesicles, human airway, intercellular communication, pulmonary disease	Extracellular vesicle (EV)-mediated intercellular communication significantly influences pulmonary cell health and disease, yet in vitro methods to investigate these mechanisms are limited. We hypothesize that organotypic models of the airway can be leveraged to investigate EV-mediated intercellular signaling, focusing on EV proteomic content as a case study. Two in vitro airway culture models were evaluated by mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis: a tri-culture model consisting of alveolar epithelial, fibroblast, and lung microvascular endothelial cells and a co-culture model of alveolar epithelial and fibroblasts. EVs isolated from the tri-culture model were enriched with EV proteins regulating RNA-to-protein translation. EVs isolated from the co-culture model were enriched with EV biogenesis and extracellular matrix signaling proteins. These model-specific differences suggest that different pulmonary cell types uniquely affect EV composition and the biological pathways influenced by the EV proteome in recipient cells. These findings can inform future studies surrounding EV-related pulmonary disease pathogenesis and therapeutics.
PXD043374	37923733	Specific heterozygous variants in MGP lead to endoplasmic reticulum stress and cause spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia. 	Heterozygous variants in MGP lead to endoplasmic reticulum stress causing spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia	MGP, skeletal dysplasia, spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia	Matrix Gla protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent post-translationally modified protein, highly expressed in vascular and cartilaginous tissues. It is a potent inhibitor of extracellular matrix mineralization. Biallelic loss-of-function variants in the MGP gene cause Keutel syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by widespread calcification of various cartilaginous tissues and skeletal and vascular anomalies. In this study, we report four individuals from two unrelated families with two heterozygous variants in MGP, both altering the cysteine 19 residue to phenylalanine or tyrosine. These individuals present with a spondyloepiphyseal skeletal dysplasia characterized by short stature with a short trunk, diffuse platyspondyly, midface retrusion, progressive epiphyseal anomalies and brachytelephalangism. We investigated the cellular and molecular effects of one of the heterozygous deleterious variants (C19F) using both cell and genetically modified mouse models. Heterozygous 'knock-in' mice expressing C19F MGP recapitulate most of the skeletal anomalies observed in the affected individuals. Our results suggest that the main underlying mechanism leading to the observed skeletal dysplasia is endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced apoptosis of the growth plate chondrocytes. Overall, our findings support that heterozygous variants in MGP altering the Cys19 residue cause autosomal dominant spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, a condition distinct from Keutel syndrome both clinically and molecularly.
PXD037074	37923799	Cathepsin-facilitated invasion of BMI1-high hepatocellular carcinoma cells drives bile duct tumor thrombi formation. 	Comparative proteomics study of the WBCtrl and WBBMI1 cells	BMI1, Bile duct tumor thrombus, Cathepsin B, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Tumor initiating cell	Bile duct tumor thrombosis (BDTT) is a complication mostly observed in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), causing jaundice and associated with poor clinical outcome. However, its underlying molecular mechanism is unclear. Here, we develop spontaneous preclinical HCC animal models with BDTT to identify the role of BMI1 expressing tumor initiating cells (BMI1(high) TICs) in inducing BDTT. BMI1 overexpression transforms liver progenitor cells into BMI1(high) TICs, which possess strong tumorigenicity and increased trans-intrahepatic biliary epithelial migration ability by secreting lysosomal cathepsin B (CTSB). Orthotopic liver implantation of BMI1(high) TICs into mice generates tumors and triggers CTSB mediated bile duct invasion to form tumor thrombus, while CTSB inhibitor treatment prohibits BDTT and extends mouse survival. Clinically, the elevated serum CTSB level determines BDTT incidence in HCC patients. Mechanistically, BMI1 epigenetically up-regulates CTSB secretion in TICs by repressing miR-218-1-3p expression. These findings identify a potential diagnostic and therapeutic target for HCC patients with BDTT.
PXD045884	37924215	Glutathione transferase photoaffinity labeling displays GST induction by safeners and pathogen infection. 	Effect of Bion (BTH treatment) in GST activities on 6-week old A.thaliana plants	ABPP, BTH, Bion, GST	Glutathione transferases (GSTs) represent a large and diverse enzyme family involved in detoxification of small molecules by glutathione conjugation in crops, weeds and model plants. Here, we introduce an easy and quick assay for photoaffinity labeling of GSTs to study GSTs globally in various plant species. The small molecule probe contains glutathione, a photoreactive group, and a minitag for coupling to reporter tags via click chemistry. Under UV irradiation, this probe quickly and robustly labels GSTs in crude protein extracts of different plant species. Purification and MS analysis of labeled proteins from Arabidopsis identified ten enriched GSTs from the Phi(F) and Tau(U) classes. Photoaffinity labeling of GSTs demonstrated GST induction in wheat seedlings upon treatment with safeners, and in Arabidopsis leaves upon infection with avirulent bacteria. Treatment of Arabidopsis with salicylic acid (SA) analog benzothiadiazole (BTH) induces GST labeling independent of NPR1, the master regulator of salicylic acid (SA). Six Phi- and Tau-class GSTs that are induced upon BTH treatment were identified and their labeling was confirmed upon transient overexpression. These data demonstrate that GST photoaffinity labeling is a useful approach to study GST induction in crude extracts of different plants species upon different types of stress.
PXD041462	37924947	A High-Throughput PIXUL-Matrix-Based Toolbox to Profile Frozen and Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded Tissues Multiomes. 	MultiomicsTracks96: A high throughput PIXUL-Matrix-based toolbox to profile frozen and FFPE tissues multiomes	CryoGrid, Matrix-ChIP, Matrix-MeDIP, Matrix-MeRIP, Matrix-RT, MultiomicsTracks96, PIXUL, Segway	Large-scale high-dimensional multiomics studies are essential to unravel molecular complexity in health and disease. We developed an integrated system for tissue sampling (CryoGrid), analytes preparation (PIXUL), and downstream multiomic analysis in a 96-well plate format (Matrix), MultiomicsTracks96, which we used to interrogate matched frozen and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) mouse organs. Using this system, we generated 8-dimensional omics data sets encompassing 4 molecular layers of intracellular organization: epigenome (H3K27Ac, H3K4m3, RNA polymerase II, and 5mC levels), transcriptome (messenger RNA levels), epitranscriptome (m6A levels), and proteome (protein levels) in brain, heart, kidney, and liver. There was a high correlation between data from matched frozen and FFPE organs. The Segway genome segmentation algorithm applied to epigenomic profiles confirmed known organ-specific superenhancers in both FFPE and frozen samples. Linear regression analysis showed that proteomic profiles, known to be poorly correlated with transcriptomic data, can be more accurately predicted by the full suite of multiomics data, compared with using epigenomic, transcriptomic, or epitranscriptomic measurements individually.
PXD044057	37924977	The Salmonella Typhimurium Effector SpvB Subverts Host Membrane Trafficking by Targeting Clathrin and AP-1. 	IP-MS of SpvB and SopD2, four biological replicates in 18 LC-MS/MS experiments.	IP-MS, SpvB	Salmonella enterica, the etiological agent of gastrointestinal and systemic diseases, translocates a plethora of virulence factors through its type III secretion systems to host cells during infection. Among them, SpvB has been reported to harbor an ADP-ribosyltransferase domain in its C terminus, which destabilizes host cytoskeleton by modifying actin. However, whether this effector targets other host factors as well as the function of its N terminus still remains to be determined. Here, we found that SpvB targets clathrin and its adaptor AP-1 (adaptor protein 1) via interactions with its N-terminal domain. Notably, our data suggest that SpvB-clathrin/AP-1 associations disrupt clathrin-mediated endocytosis and protein secretion pathway as well. In addition, knocking down of AP-1 promotes Salmonella intracellular survival and proliferation in host cells.
PXD044672	37925455	Identification of novel diagnostic panel for mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: findings based on urine proteomics and machine learning. 	AD-MCI-CN proteomic data (LFQ, DDA)	Alzheimers disease, DDA, LFQ, mild cognitive impairment	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is a prevalent disease with a heavy global burden. Proteomics is the systematic study of proteins and peptides to provide comprehensive descriptions. Aiming to obtain a more accurate and convenient clinical diagnosis, researchers are working for better biomarkers. Urine is more convenient which could reflect the change of disease at an earlier stage. Thus, we conducted a cross-sectional study to investigate novel diagnostic panels. METHODS: We firstly enrolled participants from China-Japan Friendship Hospital from April 2022 to November 2022, collected urine samples, and conducted an LC-MS/MS analysis. In parallel, clinical data were collected, and clinical examinations were performed. After statistical and bioinformatics analyses, significant risk factors and differential urinary proteins were determined. We attempt to investigate diagnostic panels based on machine learning including LASSO and SVM. RESULTS: Fifty-seven AD patients, 43 MCI patients, and 62 CN subjects were enrolled. A total of 3366 proteins were identified, and 608 urine proteins were finally included in the analysis. There were 33 significantly differential proteins between the AD and CN groups and 15 significantly differential proteins between the MCI and CN groups. AD diagnostic panel included DDC, CTSC, EHD4, GSTA3, SLC44A4, GNS, GSTA1, ANXA4, PLD3, CTSH, HP, RPS3, CPVL, age, and APOE epsilon4 with an AUC of 0.9989 in the training test and 0.8824 in the test set while MCI diagnostic panel included TUBB, SUCLG2, PROCR, TCP1, ACE, FLOT2, EHD4, PROZ, C9, SERPINA3, age, and APOE epsilon4 with an AUC of 0.9985 in the training test and 0.8143 in the test set. Besides, diagnostic proteins were weakly correlated with cognitive functions. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the procedure is convenient, non-invasive, and useful for diagnosis, which could assist physicians in differentiating AD and MCI from CN.
PXD046197	37925502	Petal size is controlled by the MYB73/TPL/HDA19-miR159-CKX6 module regulating cytokinin catabolism in Rosa hybrida. 	The analysis of RhMYB73-interacted proteins in rose by LC-MS	MS, Petal, Plant, RhMYB73, Rose	The size of plant lateral organs is determined by well-coordinated cell proliferation and cell expansion. Here, we report that miR159, an evolutionarily conserved microRNA, plays an essential role in regulating cell division in rose (Rosa hybrida) petals by modulating cytokinin catabolism. We uncover that Cytokinin Oxidase/Dehydrogenase6 (CKX6) is a target of miR159 in petals. Knocking down miR159 levels results in the accumulation of CKX6 transcripts and earlier cytokinin clearance, leading to a shortened cell division period and smaller petals. Conversely, knocking down CKX6 causes cytokinin accumulation and a prolonged developmental cell division period, mimicking the effects of exogenous cytokinin application. MYB73, a R2R3-type MYB transcription repressor, recruits a co-repressor (TOPLESS) and a histone deacetylase (HDA19) to form a suppression complex, which regulates MIR159 expression by modulating histone H3 lysine 9 acetylation levels at the MIR159 promoter. Our work sheds light on mechanisms for ensuring the correct timing of the exit from the cell division phase and thus organ size regulation by controlling cytokinin catabolism.
PXD041079	37926288	TBK1-stabilized ZNF268a recruits SETD4 to methylate TBK1 for efficient interferon signaling. 	Cytoplasmic ZNF268a interactome upon SeV infection	Affinity purification, SeV, ZNF268a, cytoplasm	Sufficient activation of interferon signaling is critical for the host to fight against invading viruses, in which post-translational modifications have been demonstrated to play a pivotal role. Here, we demonstrate that the human KRAB-zinc finger protein ZNF268a is essential for virus-induced interferon signaling. We find that cytoplasmic ZNF268a is constantly degraded by lysosome and thus remains low expressed in resting cell cytoplasm. Upon viral infection, TBK1 interacts with cytosolic ZNF268a to catalyze the phosphorylation of Serine 178 of ZNF268a, which prevents the degradation of ZNF268a, resulting in the stabilization and accumulation of ZNF268a in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, we provide evidence that stabilized ZNF268a recruits the lysine methyltransferase SETD4 to TBK1 to induce the mono-methylation of TBK1 on lysine 607, which is critical for the assembly of the TBK1 signaling complex. Notably, ZNF268 S178 is conserved among higher primates but absent in rodents. Meanwhile, rodent TBK1 607th aa happens to be replaced by arginine, possibly indicating a species-specific role of ZNF268a in regulating TBK1 during evolution. These findings reveal novel functions of ZNF268a and SETD4 in regulating antiviral interferon signaling.
PXD045471	37929643	Breast adipose tissue-derived extracellular vesicles from obese women alter tumor cell metabolism. 	Human breast adipose tissue extracellular vesicles	breast adipose tissue, extracellular vesicles	Breast adipose tissue is an important contributor to the obesity-breast cancer link. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are nanosized particles containing selective cargo, such as miRNAs, that act locally or circulate to distant sites to modulate target cell functions. Here, we find that long-term education of breast cancer cells with EVs obtained from breast adipose tissue of women who are overweight or obese (O-EVs) results in increased proliferation. RNA-seq analysis of O-EV-educated cells demonstrates increased expression of genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation, such as ATP synthase and NADH: ubiquinone oxidoreductase. O-EVs increase respiratory complex protein expression, mitochondrial density, and mitochondrial respiration in tumor cells. The mitochondrial complex I inhibitor metformin reverses O-EV-induced cell proliferation. Several miRNAs-miR-155-5p, miR-10a-3p, and miR-30a-3p-which promote mitochondrial respiration and proliferation, are enriched in O-EVs relative to EVs from lean women. O-EV-induced proliferation and mitochondrial activity are associated with stimulation of the Akt/mTOR/P70S6K pathway, and are reversed upon silencing of P70S6K. This study reveals a new facet of the obesity-breast cancer link with human breast adipose tissue-derived EVs causing metabolic reprogramming of breast cancer cells.
PXD027518	37930382	Life Detection and Microbial Biomarker Profiling with Signs of Life Detector-Life Detector Chip During a Mars Drilling Simulation Campaign in the Hyperarid Core of the Atacama Desert. 	Metaproteomic of ARADs (Atacama Rover Astrobiology Drilling Studies) field campaign samples as part of the NASA ASTEP project carried out in September 2019.	Atacama Desert, Biomarkers, Metaproteomics, Planetary Exploration, SOLID-LDChip	The low organic matter content in the hyperarid core of the Atacama Desert, together with abrupt temperature shifts and high ultraviolet radiation at its surface, makes this region one of the best terrestrial analogs of Mars and one of the best scenarios for testing instrumentation devoted to in situ planetary exploration. We have operated remotely and autonomously the SOLID-LDChip (Signs of Life Detector-Life Detector Chip), an antibody microarray-based sensor instrument, as part of a rover payload during the 2019 NASA Atacama Rover Astrobiology Drilling Studies (ARADS) Mars drilling simulation campaign. A robotic arm collected drilled cuttings down to 80 cm depth and loaded SOLID to process and assay them with LDChip for searching for molecular biomarkers. A remote science team received and analyzed telemetry data and LDChip results. The data revealed the presence of microbial markers from Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, and Cyanobacteria to be relatively more abundant in the middle layer (40-50 cm). In addition, the detection of several proteins from nitrogen metabolism indicates a pivotal role in the system. These findings were corroborated and complemented on "returned samples" to the lab by a comprehensive analysis that included DNA sequencing, metaproteomics, and a metabolic reconstruction of the sampled area. Altogether, the results describe a relatively complex microbial community with members capable of nitrogen fixation and denitrification, sulfur oxidation and reduction, or triggering oxidative stress responses, among other traits. This remote operation demonstrated the high maturity of SOLID-LDChip as a powerful tool for remote in situ life detection for future missions in the Solar System.
PXD043587	37930833	Guanine-containing ssDNA and RNA induce dimeric and tetrameric structural forms of SAMHD1. 	Guanine-containing ssDNA and RNA induce dimeric and tetrameric SAMHD1 in cryo-EM and binding studies	Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome, DNA repair, HIV, RNase, SAMMHD1	The dNTPase activity of tetrameric SAM and HD domain containing deoxynucleoside triphosphate triphosphohydrolase 1 (SAMHD1) plays a critical role in cellular dNTP regulation. SAMHD1 also associates with stalled DNA replication forks, DNA repair foci, ssRNA and telomeres. The above functions require nucleic acid binding by SAMHD1, which may be modulated by its oligomeric state. Here we establish in cryo-EM and biochemical studies that the guanine-specific A1 activator site of each SAMHD1 monomer is used to target the enzyme to guanine nucleotides within single-stranded (ss) DNA and RNA. Remarkably, nucleic acid strands containing a single guanine base induce dimeric SAMHD1, while two or more guanines with ~20 nucleotide spacing induce a tetrameric form. A cryo-EM structure of ssRNA-bound tetrameric SAMHD1 shows how ssRNA strands bridge two SAMHD1 dimers and stabilize the structure. This ssRNA-bound tetramer is inactive with respect to dNTPase and RNase activity.
PXD040330	37932372	The DNA-binding induced (de)AMPylation activity of a Coxiella burnetii Fic enzyme targets Histone H3. 	The DNA-binding induced (de)AMPylation activity of a Coxiella burnetii Fic enzyme targets Histone H3	AMPylation, Coxiella burnetii, DNA-binding, Fic enzyme, Histone H3	The intracellular bacterial pathogen Coxiella burnetii evades the host response by secreting effector proteins that aid in establishing a replication-friendly niche. Bacterial filamentation induced by cyclic AMP (Fic) enzymes can act as effectors by covalently modifying target proteins with the posttranslational AMPylation by transferring adenosine monophosphate (AMP) from adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to a hydroxyl-containing side chain. Here we identify the gene product of C. burnetii CBU_0822, termed C. burnetii Fic 2 (CbFic2), to AMPylate host cell histone H3 at serine 10 and serine 28. We show that CbFic2 acts as a bifunctional enzyme, both capable of AMPylation as well as deAMPylation, and is regulated by the binding of DNA via a C-terminal helix-turn-helix domain. We propose that CbFic2 performs AMPylation in its monomeric state, switching to a deAMPylating dimer upon DNA binding. This study unveils reversible histone modification by a specific enzyme of a pathogenic bacterium.
PXD039327	37932534	The OX40-TRAF6 axis promotes CTLA-4 degradation to augment antitumor CD8(+) T-cell immunity. 	Proteome profile of Traf6-OE OT-I T cells	LC-MS, Traf6-OE OT-I T cells	Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), including anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), benefits only a limited number of patients with cancer. Understanding the in-depth regulatory mechanism of CTLA-4 protein stability and its functional significance may help identify ICB resistance mechanisms and assist in the development of novel immunotherapeutic modalities to improve ICB efficacy. Here, we identified that TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mediates Lys63-linked ubiquitination and subsequent lysosomal degradation of CTLA-4. Moreover, by using TRAF6-deficient mice and retroviral overexpression experiments, we demonstrated that TRAF6 promotes CTLA-4 degradation in a T-cell-intrinsic manner, which is dependent on the RING domain of TRAF6. This intrinsic regulatory mechanism contributes to CD8(+) T-cell-mediated antitumor immunity in vivo. Additionally, by using an OX40 agonist, we demonstrated that the OX40-TRAF6 axis is responsible for CTLA-4 degradation, thereby controlling antitumor immunity in both tumor-bearing mice and patients with cancer. Overall, our findings demonstrate that the OX40-TRAF6 axis promotes CTLA-4 degradation and is a potential therapeutic target for the improvement of T-cell-based immunotherapies.
PXD044541	37934015	Pyridinium-Based Strategy for a Bioorthogonal Conjugation-Assisted Purification Method for Profiling Cell Surface Proteome. 	PTMC_A pyridinium-based strategy for bioorthogonal conjugation-assisted purification method for profiling cell surface proteome	Cell surface proteins (CSPs), Insulin-Stimulated Pathogenesis, Live Cell Labeling, Sulfo-Pyridinium-Ester (SPE) Probe	Cell surface proteins (CSPs) are valuable targets for therapeutic agents, but achieving highly selective CSP enrichment in cellular physiology remains a technical challenge. To address this challenge, we propose a newly developed sulfo-pyridinium ester (SPE) cross-linking probe, followed by two-step imaging and enrichment. The SPE probe showed higher efficiency in labeling proteins than similar NHS esters at the level of cell lysates and demonstrated specificity for Lys in competitive experiments. More importantly, this probe could selectively label the cell membranes in cell imaging with only negligible labeling of the intracellular compartment. Moreover, we successfully performed this strategy on MCF-7 live cells to label 425 unique CSPs from 1162 labeled proteins. Finally, we employed our probe to label the CSPs of insulin-cultured MCF-7, revealing several cell surface targets of key functional biomarkers and insulin-associated pathogenesis. The above results demonstrate that the SPE method provides a promising tool for the selective labeling of cell surface proteins and monitoring transient cell surface events.
PXD046970	37935302	Transcriptional regulation of amino acid metabolism by KDM2B, in the context of ncPRC1.1 and in concert with MYC and ATF4. 	Proteome of Control versus shKDM2B in MDA-MB-231 Cells	Breast Cancer, KDM2B, MDA-MB-231, TMT proteomics	INTRODUCTION: KDM2B encodes a JmjC domain-containing histone lysine demethylase, which functions as an oncogene in several types of tumors, including TNBC. This study was initiated to address the cancer relevance of the results of our earlier work, which had shown that overexpression of KDM2B renders mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) resistant to oxidative stress by regulating antioxidant mechanisms. METHODS: We mainly employed a multi-omics strategy consisting of RNA-Seq, quantitative TMT proteomics, Mass-spectrometry-based global metabolomics, ATAC-Seq and ChIP-seq, to explore the role of KDM2B in the resistance to oxidative stress and intermediary metabolism. These data and data from existing patient datasets were analyzed using bioinformatic tools, including exon-intron-split analysis (EISA), FLUFF and clustering analyses. The main genetic strategy we employed was gene silencing with shRNAs. ROS were measured by flow cytometry, following staining with CellROX and various metabolites were measured with biochemical assays, using commercially available kits. Gene expression was monitored with qRT-PCR and immunoblotting, as indicated. RESULTS: The knockdown of KDM2B in basal-like breast cancer cell lines lowers the levels of GSH and sensitizes the cells to ROS inducers, GSH targeting molecules, and DUB inhibitors. To address the mechanism of GSH regulation, we knocked down KDM2B in MDA-MB-231 cells and we examined the effects of the knockdown, using a multi-omics strategy. The results showed that KDM2B, functioning in the context of ncPRC1.1, regulates a network of epigenetic and transcription factors, which control a host of metabolic enzymes, including those involved in the SGOC, glutamate, and GSH metabolism. They also showed that KDM2B enhances the chromatin accessibility and expression of MYC and ATF4, and that it binds in concert with MYC and ATF4, the promoters of a large number of transcriptionally active genes, including many, encoding metabolic enzymes. Additionally, MYC and ATF4 binding sites were enriched in genes whose accessibility depends on KDM2B, and analysis of a cohort of TNBCs expressing high or low levels of KDM2B, but similar levels of MYC and ATF4 identified a subset of MYC targets, whose expression correlates with the expression of KDM2B. Further analyses of basal-like TNBCs in the same cohort, revealed that tumors expressing high levels of all three regulators exhibit a distinct metabolic signature that carries a poor prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: The present study links KDM2B, ATF4, and MYC in a transcriptional network that regulates the expression of multiple metabolic enzymes, including those that control the interconnected SGOC, glutamate, and GSH metabolic pathways. The co-occupancy of the promoters of many transcriptionally active genes, by all three factors, the enrichment of MYC binding sites in genes whose chromatin accessibility depends on KDM2B, and the correlation of the levels of KDM2B with the expression of a subset of MYC target genes in tumors that express similar levels of MYC, suggest that KDM2B regulates both the expression and the transcriptional activity of MYC. Importantly, the concerted expression of all three factors also defines a distinct metabolic subset of TNBCs with poor prognosis. Overall, this study identifies novel mechanisms of SGOC regulation, suggests novel KDM2B-dependent metabolic vulnerabilities in TNBC, and provides new insights into the role of KDM2B in the epigenetic regulation of transcription.
PXD045343	37935665	The tumor-enriched small molecule gambogic amide suppresses glioma by targeting WDR1-dependent cytoskeleton remodeling. 	Proteins that interact with WDR1 following gambogic amide treatment	IP-MS, WDR1, gambgoci amide	Glioma is the most prevalent brain tumor, presenting with limited treatment options, while patients with malignant glioma and glioblastoma (GBM) have poor prognoses. The physical obstacle to drug delivery imposed by the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and glioma stem cells (GSCs), which are widely recognized as crucial elements contributing to the unsatisfactory clinical outcomes. In this study, we found a small molecule, gambogic amide (GA-amide), exhibited the ability to effectively penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and displayed a notable enrichment within the tumor region. Moreover, GA-amide exhibited significant efficacy in inhibiting tumor growth across various in vivo glioma models, encompassing transgenic and primary patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. We further performed a genome-wide clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) knockout screen to determine the druggable target of GA-amide. By the combination of the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), the drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) approach, molecular docking simulation and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analysis, WD repeat domain 1 (WDR1) was identified as the direct binding target of GA-amide. Through direct interaction with WDR1, GA-amide promoted the formation of a complex involving WDR1, MYH9 and Cofilin, which accelerate the depolymerization of F-actin to inhibit the invasion of patient-derived glioma cells (PDCs) and induce PDC apoptosis via the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. In conclusion, our study not only identified GA-amide as an effective and safe agent for treating glioma but also shed light on the underlying mechanisms of GA-amide from the perspective of cytoskeletal homeostasis.
PXD039247	37935678	Structural insights into the modulation of coronavirus spike tilting and infectivity by hinge glycans. 	A hinge glycan regulates spike bending and impacts coronavirus infectivity	N-glycan, coronavirus, spike	Coronavirus spike glycoproteins presented on the virion surface mediate receptor binding, and membrane fusion during virus entry and constitute the primary target for vaccine and drug development. How the structure dynamics of the full-length spikes incorporated in viral lipid envelope correlates with the virus infectivity remains poorly understood. Here we present structures and distributions of native spike conformations on vitrified human coronavirus NL63 (HCoV-NL63) virions without chemical fixation by cryogenic electron tomography (cryoET) and subtomogram averaging, along with site-specific glycan composition and occupancy determined by mass spectrometry. The higher oligomannose glycan shield on HCoV-NL63 spikes than on SARS-CoV-2 spikes correlates with stronger immune evasion of HCoV-NL63. Incorporation of cryoET-derived native spike conformations into all-atom molecular dynamic simulations elucidate the conformational landscape of the glycosylated, full-length spike that reveals a role of hinge glycans in modulating spike bending. We show that glycosylation at N1242 at the upper portion of the stalk is responsible for the extensive orientational freedom of the spike crown. Subsequent infectivity assays implicated involvement of N1242-glyan in virus entry. Our results suggest a potential therapeutic target site for HCoV-NL63.
PXD038058	37935699	Structural basis of peptide secretion for Quorum sensing by ComA. 	Structure and mechanism of CSP secretion pump of ComA for Quorum sensing	ABC transport, Cross-linking MS, Streptococcus pneumoniae	Quorum sensing (QS) is a crucial regulatory mechanism controlling bacterial signalling and holds promise for novel therapies against antimicrobial resistance. In Gram-positive bacteria, such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, ComA is a conserved efflux pump responsible for the maturation and secretion of peptide signals, including the competence-stimulating peptide (CSP), yet its structure and function remain unclear. Here, we functionally characterize ComA as an ABC transporter with high ATP affinity and determined its cryo-EM structures in the presence or absence of CSP or nucleotides. Our findings reveal a network of strong electrostatic interactions unique to ComA at the intracellular gate, a putative binding pocket for two CSP molecules, and negatively charged residues facilitating CSP translocation. Mutations of these residues affect ComA's peptidase activity in-vitro and prevent CSP export in-vivo. We demonstrate that ATP-Mg(2+) triggers the outward-facing conformation of ComA for CSP release, rather than ATP alone. Our study provides molecular insights into the QS signal peptide secretion, highlighting potential targets for QS-targeting drugs.
PXD041604	37937619	Ferroptosis contributes to hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia-induced brain damage in vivo and in vitro. 	Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomic analysis reveals proteins involved in hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia-induced brain injury in rats	Bioinformatics analysis, Brain injury, DNA replication, Hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia	Ferroptosis is driven by iron-dependent accumulation of lipid hydroperoxides, and hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia causes accumulation of unconjugated bilirubin and iron. The present study aimed to assess the role of ferroptosis in hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia-induced brain damage (HHIBD). Rats were randomly divided into the control, phenylhydrazine (PHZ) and deferoxamine (DFO) + PHZ groups, with 12 rats in each group. Ferroptosis-associated biochemical and protein indicators were measured in the brain tissue of rats. We also performed tandem mass tag-labeled proteomic analysis. The levels of iron and malondialdehyde were significantly higher and levels of glutathione (GSH) and superoxide dismutase activity significantly lower in the brain tissues of the PHZ group compared with those in the control group. HHIBD also resulted in significant increases in the expression of the ferroptosis-related proteins acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4, ferritin heavy chain 1 and transferrin receptor and divalent metal transporter 1, as well as a significant reduction in the expression of ferroptosis suppressor protein 1. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis demonstrated that the differentially expressed proteins of rat brain tissues between the control and PHZ groups were significantly involved in ferroptosis, GSH metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis pathways. Pretreatment with DFO induced antioxidant activity and alleviated lipid peroxidation-mediated HHIBD. In addition, PC12 cells treated with ferric ammonium citrate showed shrinking mitochondria, high mitochondrial membrane density, and increased lipid reactive oxygen species and intracellular ferrous iron, which were antagonized by pretreatment with ferrostatin-1 or DFO, which was reversed by pretreatment with ferrostatin-1 or DFO. The present study demonstrated that ferroptosis is involved in HHIBD and provided novel insights into candidate proteins that are potentially involved in ferroptosis in the brain during hemolytic hyperbilirubinemia.
PXD040492	37938546	Crosstalk with lung fibroblasts shapes the growth and therapeutic response of mesothelioma cells. 	Crosstalk with lung fibroblasts shapes the growth and therapeutic response of mesothelioma cells	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cancer associated fibroblast, mesothelioma, signalling crosstalk, targeted therapy	Mesothelioma is an aggressive cancer of the mesothelial layer associated with an extensive fibrotic response. The latter is in large part mediated by cancer-associated fibroblasts which mediate tumour progression and poor prognosis. However, understanding of the crosstalk between cancer cells and fibroblasts in this disease is mostly lacking. Here, using co-cultures of patient-derived mesothelioma cell lines and lung fibroblasts, we demonstrate that fibroblast activation is a self-propagated process producing a fibrotic extracellular matrix (ECM) and triggering drug resistance in mesothelioma cells. Following characterisation of mesothelioma cells/fibroblasts signalling crosstalk, we identify several FDA-approved targeted therapies as far more potent than standard-of-care Cisplatin/Pemetrexed in ECM-embedded co-culture spheroid models. In particular, the SRC family kinase inhibitor, Saracatinib, extends overall survival well beyond standard-of-care in a mesothelioma genetically-engineered mouse model. In short, we lay the foundation for the rational design of novel therapeutic strategies targeting mesothelioma/fibroblast communication for the treatment of mesothelioma patients.
PXD028020	37938640	Antidepressants promote the spread of extracellular antibiotic resistance genes via transformation. 	Bacteria proteomics under antidepressants exposure	A.baylyi ADP1, Antibiotic resistance genes, E. coli K12, P. putita KT2440, conjugation, transformation	The development of antibiotic resistance as an unavoidable consequence of the application of antimicrobials is a significant concern for human health. Antidepressants are being increasingly consumed globally. Human gut microbial communities are frequently exposed to antidepressants, yet little is known about the interaction between antidepressants and antibiotic resistance. This study aimed to investigate whether antidepressants can accelerate the dissemination of antibiotic resistance by increasing the rate of the horizontal transfer of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). Results demonstrated that some of the commonly-prescribed antidepressants (Duloxetine, Sertraline, Fluoxetine and Bupropion) at clinically relevant concentrations can significantly (n = 9; padj < 0.01) promote the transformation of extracellular ARGs into Acinetobacter baylyi ADP1 for a maximum of 2.3-fold, which is primarily associated with the overproduction of reactive oxygen species. The increased cell membrane permeability and porosity, stimulated transcription and translation of competence, SOS response, universal stress response and ATP synthesis-related genes are also associated with antidepressants-enhanced transformation. This study demonstrated that some antidepressants can speed up the spread of antibiotic resistance by promoting the transformation of ARGs, which emphasizes the necessity to assess the potential risks of antidepressants in spreading antibiotic resistance during clinical antidepressant applications.
PXD043723	37939282	Custom Workflow for the Confident Identification of Sulfotyrosine-Containing Peptides and Their Discrimination from Phosphopeptides. 	A bespoke analytical workflow for the identification of sulfopep-tides and confident discrimination from phosphopeptides_C4PR_LIV	sulfation, sulfotyrosine, tyrosine-o-sulfation	Protein tyrosine sulfation (sY) is a post-translational modification (PTM) catalyzed by Golgi-resident tyrosyl protein sulfo transferases (TPSTs). Information on sY in humans is currently limited to ~50 proteins, with only a handful having verified sites of sulfation. As such, the contribution of sulfation to the regulation of biological processes remains poorly defined. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics is the method of choice for PTM analysis but has yet to be applied for systematic investigation of the "sulfome", primarily due to issues associated with discrimination of sY-containing from phosphotyrosine (pY)-containing peptides. In this study, we developed an MS-based workflow for sY-peptide characterization, incorporating optimized Zr(4+) immobilized metal-ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) and TiO2 enrichment strategies. Extensive characterization of a panel of sY- and pY-peptides using an array of fragmentation regimes (CID, HCD, EThcD, ETciD, UVPD) highlighted differences in the generation of site-determining product ions and allowed us to develop a strategy for differentiating sulfated peptides from nominally isobaric phosphopeptides based on low collision energy-induced neutral loss. Application of our "sulfomics" workflow to a HEK-293 cell extracellular secretome facilitated identification of 21 new sulfotyrosine-containing proteins, several of which we validate enzymatically, and reveals new interplay between enzymes relevant to both protein and glycan sulfation.
PXD041028	37940003	HIV-1 Nef Changes the Proteome of T Cells Extracellular Vesicles Depleting IFITMs and Other Antiviral Factors. 	HIV-1 Nef changes the proteome of T cells extracellular vesicles	Extracelular vesicles, HIV-1, Nef, exosomes	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are biomolecule carriers for intercellular communication in health and disease. Nef is a HIV virulence factor that is released from cells within EVs and is present in plasma EVs of HIV-1 infected individuals. We performed a quantitative proteomic analysis to fully characterize the Nef-induced changes in protein composition of T cell-derived EVs and identify novel host targets of HIV. Several proteins with well-described roles in infection or not previously associated with HIV pathogenesis were specifically modulated by Nef in EVs. Among the downregulated proteins are the interferon-induced transmembrane 1, 2, and 3 (IFITM1-3) proteins, broad-spectrum antiviral factors known to be cell-to-cell transferable by EVs. We demonstrate that Nef depletes IFITM1-3 from EVs by excluding these proteins from the plasma membrane and lipid rafts, which are sites of EVs biogenesis in T cells. Our data establish Nef as a modulator of EVs' global protein content and as an HIV factor that antagonizes IFITMs.
PXD037569	37940635	Spatially resolved mapping of proteome turnover dynamics with subcellular precision. 	Spatially resolved mapping of proteome turnover dynamics with subcellular precision	Protein turnover, proximity-dependent labeling, pusle-SILAC	Cellular activities are commonly associated with dynamic proteomic changes at the subcellular level. Although several techniques are available to quantify whole-cell protein turnover dynamics, such measurements often lack sufficient spatial resolution at the subcellular level. Herein, we report the development of prox-SILAC method that combines proximity-dependent protein labeling (APEX2/HRP) with metabolic incorporation of stable isotopes (pulse-SILAC) to map newly synthesized proteins with subcellular spatial resolution. We apply prox-SILAC to investigate proteome dynamics in the mitochondrial matrix and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen. Our analysis reveals a highly heterogeneous distribution in protein turnover dynamics within macromolecular machineries such as the mitochondrial ribosome and respiratory complexes I-V, thus shedding light on their mechanism of hierarchical assembly. Furthermore, we investigate the dynamic changes of ER proteome when cells are challenged with stress or undergoing stimulated differentiation, identifying subsets of proteins with unique patterns of turnover dynamics, which may play key regulatory roles in alleviating stress or promoting differentiation. We envision that prox-SILAC could be broadly applied to profile protein turnover at various subcellular compartments, under both physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD043514	37940875	Candidate biomarkers for treatment benefit from sunitinib in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma using mass spectrometry-based (phospho)proteomics. 	Candidate biomarkers for treatment benefit from sunitinib in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma using mass spectrometry-based (phospho)proteomics	Cancer, Mass Spectrometry-based Phosphoproteomics, Renal cell carcinoma, Sunitinib, Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors	The tyrosine kinase inhibitor sunitinib is an effective first-line treatment for patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Hypothesizing that a functional read-out by mass spectrometry-based (phospho, p-)proteomics will identify predictive biomarkers for treatment outcome of sunitinib, tumor tissues of 26 RCC patients were analyzed. Eight patients had primary resistant (RES) and 18 sensitive (SENS) RCC. A 78 phosphosite signature (p < 0.05, fold-change > 2) was identified; 22 p-sites were upregulated in RES (unique in RES: BCAR3, NOP58, EIF4A2, GDI1) and 56 in SENS (35 unique). EIF4A1/EIF4A2 were differentially expressed in RES at the (p-)proteome and, in an independent cohort, transcriptome level. Inferred kinase activity of MAPK3 (p = 0.026) and EGFR (p = 0.045) as determined by INKA was higher in SENS. Posttranslational modifications signature enrichment analysis showed that different p-site-centric signatures were enriched (p < 0.05), of which FGF1 and prolactin pathways in RES and, in SENS, vanadate and thrombin treatment pathways, were most significant. In conclusion, the RCC (phospho)proteome revealed differential p-sites and kinase activities associated with sunitinib resistance and sensitivity. Independent validation is warranted to develop an assay for upfront identification of patients who are intrinsically resistant to sunitinib.
PXD041375	37942320	Dexamethasone impairs the expression of antimicrobial mediators in lipopolysaccharide-activated primary macrophages by inhibiting both expression and function of interferon beta. 	Effect of LPS and the glucocorticoid dexamethasone on the mouse Bone Marrow Derived Macrophage Proteome	dexamethasone, glucocorticoid, innate immunity, macrophage, type I interferon	Glucocorticoids potently inhibit expression of many inflammatory mediators, and have been widely used to treat both acute and chronic inflammatory diseases for more than seventy years. However, they can have several unwanted effects, amongst which immunosuppression is one of the most common. Here we used microarrays and proteomic approaches to characterise the effect of dexamethasone (a synthetic glucocorticoid) on the responses of primary mouse macrophages to a potent pro-inflammatory agonist, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Gene ontology analysis revealed that dexamethasone strongly impaired the lipopolysaccharide-induced antimicrobial response, which is thought to be driven by an autocrine feedback loop involving the type I interferon IFNbeta. Indeed, dexamethasone strongly and dose-dependently inhibited the expression of IFNbeta by LPS-activated macrophages. Unbiased proteomic data also revealed an inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on the IFNbeta-dependent program of gene expression, with strong down-regulation of several interferon-induced antimicrobial factors. Surprisingly, dexamethasone also inhibited the expression of several antimicrobial genes in response to direct stimulation of macrophages with IFNbeta. We tested a number of hypotheses based on previous publications, but found that no single mechanism could account for more than a small fraction of the broad suppressive impact of dexamethasone on macrophage type I interferon signaling, underlining the complexity of this pathway. Preliminary experiments indicated that dexamethasone exerted similar inhibitory effects on primary human monocyte-derived or alveolar macrophages.
PXD046086	37942400	The antimicrobial peptide Esc(1-21)-1c increases susceptibility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to conventional antibiotics by decreasing the expression of the MexAB-OprM efflux pump. 	The antimicrobial peptide Esc(1-21)-1c increases susceptibility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to conventional antibiotics by decreasing the expression of the MexAB-OprM efflux pump	Antimicrobial peptide, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Tetracycline, antibiotics, efflux pumps	Introduction: The increase in bacterial strains resistant to conventional antibiotics is an alarming problem for human health and could lead to pandemics in the future. Among bacterial pathogens responsible for a large variety of severe infections there is Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Therefore, there is an urgent need for new molecules with antimicrobial activity or that can act as adjuvants of antibiotics already in use. In this scenario, antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) hold great promise. Recently, we characterized a frog-skin AMP derived from esculentin-1a, namely Esc(1-21)-1c, endowed with antipseudomonal activity without being cytotoxic to human cells. Methods: The combinatorial effect of the peptide and antibiotics was investigated through the checkerboard assay, differential proteomic and transcriptional analysis. Results: Here, we found that Esc(1-21)-1c can synergistically inhibit the growth of P. aeruginosa cells with three different antibiotics, including tetracycline. We therefore investigated the underlying mechanism implemented by the peptide using a differential proteomic approach. The data revealed a significant decrease in the production of three proteins belonging to the MexAB-OprM efflux pump upon treatment with sub-inhibitory concentration of Esc(1-21)-1c. Down-regulation of these proteins was confirmed by transcriptional analysis and direct measurement of their relative levels in bacterial cells by tandem mass spectrometry analysis in multiple reaction monitoring scan mode. Conclusion: These evidences suggest that treatment with Esc(1-21)-1c in combination with antibiotics would increase the intracellular drug content making bacteria more susceptible to the antibiotic. Overall, these results highlight the importance of characterizing new molecules able to synergize with conventional antibiotics, paving the way for the development of alternative therapeutic strategies based on AMP/antibiotic formulations to counteract the emergence of resistant bacterial strains and increase the use of "old" antibiotics in medical practice.
PXD032257	37942963	Targeting ribosome biogenesis reinforces ERK-dependent senescence in pancreatic cancer. 	Targeting ribosome biogenesis reinforces ERK-dependent senescence in pancreatic cancer	ERK, RNA polymerase I, nucleolar stress, pancreatic cancer, ribosome biogenesis, senescence	Pancreatic adenocarcinomas (PDAC) often possess mutations in K-Ras that stimulate the ERK pathway. Aberrantly high ERK activation triggers oncogene-induced senescence, which halts tumor progression. Here we report that low-grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia displays very high levels of phospho-ERK consistent with a senescence response. However, advanced lesions that have circumvented the senescence barrier exhibit lower phospho-ERK levels. Restoring ERK hyperactivation in PDAC using activated RAF leads to ERK-dependent growth arrest with senescence biomarkers. ERK-dependent senescence in PDAC was characterized by a nucleolar stress response including a selective depletion of nucleolar phosphoproteins and intranucleolar foci containing RNA polymerase I designated as senescence-associated nucleolar foci (SANF). Accordingly, combining ribosome biogenesis inhibitors with ERK hyperactivation reinforced the senescence response in PDAC cells. Notably, comparable mechanisms were observed upon treatment with the platinum-based chemotherapy regimen FOLFIRINOX, currently a first-line treatment option for PDAC. We thus suggest that drugs targeting ribosome biogenesis can improve the senescence anticancer response in pancreatic cancer.
PXD046199	37943660	hnRNPA1 SUMOylation promotes cold hypersensitivity in chronic inflammatory pain by stabilizing TRPA1 mRNA. 	hnRNPA1 SUMOylation promotes cold hypersensitivity in chronic inflammatory pain	PTM, hnRNPA1 SUMOylation	TRPA1 is pivotal in cold hypersensitivity, but its regulatory mechanisms in inflammatory cold hyperalgesia remain poorly understood. We show here that the upregulation of SUMO1-conjugated protein levels in a complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammatory pain model enhances TRPA1 mRNA stability, ultimately leading to increased expression levels. We further demonstrate that hnRNPA1 binds to TRPA1 mRNA, and its SUMOylation, upregulated in CFA-induced inflammatory pain, contributes to stabilizing TRPA1 mRNA by accumulating hnRNPA1 in the cytoplasm. Moreover, we find that wild-type hnRNPA1 viral infection in dorsal root ganglia neurons, and not infection with the SUMOylation-deficient hnRNPA1 mutant, can rescue the reduced ability of hnRNPA1-knockdown mice to develop inflammatory cold pain hypersensitivity. These results suggest that hnRNPA1 is a regulator of TRPA1 mRNA stability, the capability of which is enhanced upon SUMO1 conjugation at lysine 3 in response to peripheral inflammation, and the increased expression of TRPA1 in turn underlies the development of chronic inflammatory cold pain hypersensitivity.
PXD025702	37943843	Panton-Valentine leukocidin-induced neutrophil extracellular traps lack antimicrobial activity and are readily induced in patients with recurrent PVL+-Staphylococcus aureus infections. 	Neutrophils from patients with recurring Panton-Valentine Leukocidin-positive Staphylococcus aureus infections are more sensitive to PVL induced NETosis	MRSA, NETs, Netosis, PVL, Staphylococcus aureus, leukocidin	Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) strains that produce the toxin Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL; PVL-SA) frequently cause recurrent skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI). PVL binds to and kills human neutrophils, resulting in the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps, but the pathomechanism has not been extensively studied. Furthermore, it is unclear why some individuals colonized with PVL-SA suffer from recurring infections whereas others are asymptomatic. We thus aimed to (a) investigate how PVL exerts its pathogenicity on neutrophils and (b) identify factors that could help to explain the predisposition of patients with recurring infections. We provide genetic and pharmacological evidence that PVL-induced NET formation is independent of NADPH-oxidase and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Moreover, through NET proteome analysis we identified that the protein content of PVL-induced NETs is different from NETs induced by mitogen or the microbial toxin nigericin. The abundance of the proteins cathelicidin (CAMP), elastase (NE), and proteinase 3 (PRTN3) was lower on PVL-induced NETs, and as such they were unable to kill S. aureus. Furthermore, we found that neutrophils from affected patients express higher levels of CD45, one of the PVL receptors, and are more susceptible to be killed at a low PVL concentration than control neutrophils. Neutrophils from patients that suffer from recurring PVL-positive infections may thus be more sensitive to PVL-induced NET formation, which might impair their ability to combat the infection.
PXD034113	37944136	4-Hydroxynonenal impairs miRNA maturation in heart failure via Dicer post-translational modification. 	4-HNE modification of human recombinant Dicer	4-HNE, human Dicer	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Developing novel therapies to battle the global public health burden of heart failure remains challenging. This study investigates the underlying mechanisms and potential treatment for 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) deleterious effects in heart failure. METHODS: Biochemical, functional, and histochemical measurements were applied to identify 4-HNE adducts in rat and human failing hearts. In vitro studies were performed to validate 4-HNE targets. RESULTS: 4-HNE, a reactive aldehyde by-product of mitochondrial dysfunction in heart failure, covalently inhibits Dicer, an RNase III endonuclease essential for microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis. 4-HNE inhibition of Dicer impairs miRNA processing. Mechanistically, 4-HNE binds to recombinant human Dicer through an intermolecular interaction that disrupts both activity and stability of Dicer in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Dithiothreitol neutralization of 4-HNE or replacing 4-HNE-targeted residues in Dicer prevents 4-HNE inhibition of Dicer in vitro. Interestingly, end-stage human failing hearts from three different heart failure aetiologies display defective 4-HNE clearance, decreased Dicer activity, and miRNA biogenesis impairment. Notably, boosting 4-HNE clearance through pharmacological re-activation of mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) using Alda-1 or its improved orally bioavailable derivative AD-9308 restores Dicer activity. ALDH2 is a major enzyme responsible for 4-HNE removal. Importantly, this response is accompanied by improved miRNA maturation and cardiac function/remodelling in a pre-clinical model of heart failure. CONCLUSIONS: 4-HNE inhibition of Dicer directly impairs miRNA biogenesis in heart failure. Strikingly, decreasing cardiac 4-HNE levels through pharmacological ALDH2 activation is sufficient to re-establish Dicer activity and miRNA biogenesis; thereby representing potential treatment for patients with heart failure.
PXD045642	37944523	Ferroptosis inhibition by oleic acid mitigates iron-overload-induced injury. 	Ferroptosis inhibition by oleic acid mitigates iron-overload-induced injury.	C. elegans, Oleic acid ferroptosi	Iron overload, characterized by accumulation of iron in tissues, induces a multiorgan toxicity whose mechanisms are not fully understood. Using cultured cell lines, Caenorhabditis elegans, and mice, we found that ferroptosis occurs in the context of iron-overload-mediated damage. Exogenous oleic acid protected against iron-overload-toxicity in cell culture and Caenorhabditis elegans by suppressing ferroptosis. In mice, oleic acid protected against FAC-induced liver lipid peroxidation and damage. Oleic acid changed the cellular lipid composition, characterized by decreased levels of polyunsaturated fatty acyl phospholipids and decreased levels of ether-linked phospholipids. The protective effect of oleic acid in cells was attenuated by GW6471 (PPAR-alpha antagonist), as well as in Caenorhabditis elegans lacking the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-49 (a PPAR-alpha functional homologue). These results highlight ferroptosis as a driver of iron-overload-mediated damage, which is inhibited by oleic acid. This monounsaturated fatty acid represents a potential therapeutic approach to mitigating organ damage in iron overload individuals.
PXD034090	37946050	Non-synaptic function of the autism spectrum disorder-associated gene SYNGAP1 in cortical neurogenesis. 	Identification of Syngap1 from Brain Organoids	SP3, Syngap1	Genes involved in synaptic function are enriched among those with autism spectrum disorder (ASD)-associated rare genetic variants. Dysregulated cortical neurogenesis has been implicated as a convergent mechanism in ASD pathophysiology, yet it remains unknown how 'synaptic' ASD risk genes contribute to these phenotypes, which arise before synaptogenesis. Here, we show that the synaptic Ras GTPase-activating (RASGAP) protein 1 (SYNGAP1, a top ASD risk gene) is expressed within the apical domain of human radial glia cells (hRGCs). In a human cortical organoid model of SYNGAP1 haploinsufficiency, we find dysregulated cytoskeletal dynamics that impair the scaffolding and division plane of hRGCs, resulting in disrupted lamination and accelerated maturation of cortical projection neurons. Additionally, we confirmed an imbalance in the ratio of progenitors to neurons in a mouse model of Syngap1 haploinsufficiency. Thus, SYNGAP1-related brain disorders may arise through non-synaptic mechanisms, highlighting the need to study genes associated with neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) in diverse human cell types and developmental stages.
PXD046451	37946221	iTRAQ-based proteomics reveals potential markers and treatment pathways for acute Achilles tendon rupture. 	iTRAQ-based proteomics reveals potential markers and treatment pathways for acute Achilles tendon rupture	acute Achilles tendon rupture, biomarker, iTRAQ, protein-protein interaction network	BACKGROUND: Due to its limited blood supply and irregular mechanical loading, the Achilles tendon is the most frequently ruptured tendon. Despite the rising incidence of acute Achilles tendon rupture (AATR), the optimal treatment remains controversial. Missed diagnoses and delayed treatments lead to poor outcomes and limited treatment options. This study aimed to identify potential biomarkers for diagnosing and developing therapies for AATR. METHODS: We employed the coupled isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation-liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry approach to investigate protein expression in tissues from AATR patients. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between AATR patients and healthy individuals. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network of DEPs was constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes. The screened hub genes were selectively verified by immunohistochemical staining. RESULTS: We identified 410 DEPs between AATR patients and controls. The DEPs were significantly enriched in GO terms such as the extracellular region, extracellular region part, and defense response, as well as KEGG pathways, including complement and coagulation cascades, focal adhesion, and regulation of actin cytoskeleton. The main hub nodes in the PPI network comprised fibronectin 1 (FN1), major histocompatibility complex, class I, B (HLA-B), filamin A (FLNA), heat shock 27-kDa protein 1 (HSPB1), heat shock protein family A member 5 (HSPA5), apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4), and myosin IC (MYO1C). Although APOA4 and collagens I, II, and III were detectable in healthy tendons, immunohistochemical staining confirmed higher expression of these proteins in the acutely ruptured Achilles tendon. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings lay a foundation for further molecular studies of AATR. Inflammation and age-related degeneration may contribute to the pathogenesis of AATR. Moreover, the identified DEPs could be potential biomarkers for AATR diagnosis and treatment.
PXD043503	37947401	Synaptic Involvement of the Human Amygdala in Parkinson's Disease. 	dia-PASEF analysis of human amygdala in Parkinson's disease	Parkinson, amygdala	alpha-Synuclein, a protein mostly present in presynaptic terminals, accumulates neuropathologically in Parkinson's disease in a 6-stage sequence and propagates in the nervous system in a prion-like manner through neurons and glia. In stage 3, the substantia nigra are affected, provoking motor symptoms and the amygdaloid complex, leading to different nonmotor symptoms; from here, synucleinopathy spreads to the temporal cortex and beyond. The expected increase in Parkinson's disease incidence accelerates the need for detection biomarkers; however, the heterogeneity of this disease, including pathological aggregates and pathophysiological pathways, poses a challenge in the search for new therapeutic targets and biomarkers. Proteomic analyses are lacking, and the literature regarding synucleinopathy, neural and glial involvement, and volume of the human amygdaloid complex is controversial. Therefore, the present study combines both proteomic and stereological probes. Data-independent acquisition-parallel accumulation of serial fragmentation proteomic analysis revealed a remarkable proteomic impact, especially at the synaptic level in the human amygdaloid complex in Parkinson's disease. Among the 199 differentially expressed proteins, guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(i) subunit alpha-1 (GNAI1), elongation factor 1-alpha 1 (EEF1A1), myelin proteolipid protein (PLP1), neuroplastin (NPTN), 14-3-3 protein eta (YWHAH), gene associated with retinoic and interferon-induced mortality 19 protein (GRIM19), and orosomucoid-2 (ORM2) stand out as potential biomarkers in Parkinson's disease. Stereological analysis, however, did not reveal alterations regarding synucleinopathy, neural or glial populations, or volume changes. To our knowledge, this is the first proteomic study of the human amygdaloid complex in Parkinson's disease, and it identified possible biomarkers of the disease. Lewy pathology could not be sufficient to cause neurodegeneration or alteration of microglial and astroglial populations in the human amygdaloid complex in Parkinson's disease. Nevertheless, damage at the proteomic level is manifest, showing up significant synaptic involvement.
PXD042422	37947594	Plasma-Derived Exosome Proteins as Novel Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarkers in Neuroblastoma Patients. 	Plasma-derived exosome proteins as novel diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in neuroblastoma patients	Neuroblastoma, exosomes, extracellular vesicles	Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common extracranial solid tumor during infancy, causing up to 10% of mortality in children; thus, identifying novel early and accurate diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers is mandatory. NB-derived exosomes carry proteins (Exo-prots) reflecting the status of the tumor cell of origin. The purpose of this study was to characterize, for the first time, the Exo-prots specifically expressed in NB patients associated with tumor phenotype and disease stage. We isolated exosomes from plasma specimens of 24 HR-NB patients and 24 low-risk (LR-NB) patients at diagnosis and of 24 age-matched healthy controls (CTRL). Exo-prot expression was measured by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD042422). The NB patients had a different Exo-prot expression profile compared to the CTRL. The deregulated Exo-prots in the NB specimens acted mainly in the tumor-associated pathways. The HR-NB patients showed a different Exo-prot expression profile compared to the LR-NB patients, with the modulation of proteins involved in cell migration, proliferation and metastasis. NCAM, NCL, LUM and VASP demonstrated a diagnostic value in discriminating the NB patients from the CTRL; meanwhile, MYH9, FN1, CALR, AKAP12 and LTBP1 were able to differentiate between the HR-NB and LR-NB patients with high accuracy. Therefore, Exo-prots contribute to NB tumor development and to the aggressive metastatic NB phenotype.
PXD042874	37947626	Functional Proteomics Characterization of the Role of SPRYD7 in Colorectal Cancer Progression and Metastasis. 	Functional proteomics characterization of the role of SPRYD7 in colorectal cancer progression and metastasis	SPRYD7, cancer metastasis, colorectal cancer, interactome, protein dysregulation	SPRY domain-containing protein 7 (SPRYD7) is a barely known protein identified via spatial proteomics as being upregulated in highly metastatic-to-liver KM12SM colorectal cancer (CRC) cells in comparison to its isogenic poorly metastatic KM12C CRC cells. Here, we aimed to analyze SPRYD7's role in CRC via functional proteomics. Through immunohistochemistry, the overexpression of SPRYD7 was observed to be associated with the poor survival of CRC patients and with an aggressive and metastatic phenotype. Stable SPRYD7 overexpression was performed in KM12C and SW480 poorly metastatic CRC cells and in their isogenic highly metastatic-to-liver-KM12SM-and-to-lymph-nodes SW620 CRC cells, respectively. Upon upregulation of SPRYD7, in vitro and in vivo functional assays confirmed a key role of SPRYD7 in the invasion and migration of CRC cells and in liver homing and tumor growth. Additionally, transient siRNA SPRYD7 silencing allowed us to confirm in vitro functional results. Furthermore, SPRYD7 was observed as an inductor of angiogenesis. In addition, the dysregulated SPRYD7-associated proteome and SPRYD7 interactors were elucidated via 10-plex TMT quantitative proteins, immunoproteomics, and bioinformatics. After WB validation, the biological pathways associated with the stable overexpression of SPRYD7 were visualized. In conclusion, it was demonstrated here that SPRYD7 is a novel protein associated with CRC progression and metastasis. Thus, SPRYD7 and its interactors might be of relevance in identifying novel therapeutic targets for advanced CRC.
PXD041499	37949301	Application of Liquid-Liquid Extraction for N-terminal Myristoylation Proteomics. 	Application of liquid-liquid extraction for N-terminal myristoylation proteomics	lipidation, liquid-liquid extraction, myristoylation	Proteins can be modified by lipids in various ways, for example, by myristoylation, palmitoylation, farnesylation, and geranylgeranylation-these processes are collectively referred to as lipidation. Current chemical proteomics using alkyne lipids has enabled the identification of lipidated protein candidates but does not identify endogenous lipidation sites and is not readily applicable to in vivo systems. Here, we introduce a proteomic methodology for global analysis of endogenous protein N-terminal myristoylation sites that combines liquid-liquid extraction of hydrophobic lipidated peptides with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry using a gradient program of acetonitrile in the high concentration range. We applied this method to explore myristoylation sites in HeLa cells and identified a total of 75 protein N-terminal myristoylation sites, which is more than the number of high-confidence myristoylated proteins identified by myristic acid analog-based chemical proteomics. Isolation of myristoylated peptides from HeLa digests prepared with different proteases enabled the identification of different myristoylated sites, extending the coverage of N-myristoylome. Finally, we analyzed in vivo myristoylation sites in mouse tissues and found that the lipidation profile is tissue-specific. This simple method (not requiring chemical labeling or affinity purification) should be a promising tool for global profiling of protein N-terminal myristoylation.
PXD045513	37949369	Ola1p trafficking indicates an interaction network between mitochondria, lipid droplets, and stress granules in times of stress. 	Ola1p trafficking indicates an interaction network between mitochondria, Lipid droplets and stress granules in times of stress	TurboID, mitochondria, protein aggregation, protein detoxification, protein shuttling, proximity labelling, stress response: Lipid droplets	Protein aggregates arise naturally under normal physiological conditions, but their formation is accelerated by age or stress-induced protein misfolding. When the stressful event dissolves, these aggregates are removed by mechanisms, such as aggrephagy, chaperone-mediated autophagy, refolding attempts, or the proteasome. It was recently shown that mitochondria in yeast cells may support these primarily cytosolic processes. Protein aggregates attach to mitochondria, and misfolded proteins are transported into the matrix and degraded by mitochondria-specific proteases. Using a proximity labeling method and colocalization with an established stress granule (SG) marker, we were able to show that these mitochondria-localized aggregates that harbor the "super aggregator" Ola1p are, in fact, SGs. Our in vivo and in vitro studies have revealed that Ola1p can be transferred from mitochondria to lipid droplets (LDs). This "mitochondria to LD" aggregate transfer dampens proteotoxic effects. The LD-based protein aggregate removal system gains importance when other proteolytic systems fail. Furthermore, we were able to show that the distribution of SGs is drastically altered in LD-deficient yeast cells, demonstrating that LDs play a role in the SG life cycle.
PXD020232	37949856	Tau forms synaptic nano-biomolecular condensates controlling the dynamic clustering of recycling synaptic vesicles. 	Phosphoproteome of five-minute KCl-depolarised mouse cultured hippocampal neurons	KCl, depolarisation, hippocampal, neurons, phosphoproteome, tau	Neuronal communication relies on the release of neurotransmitters from various populations of synaptic vesicles. Despite displaying vastly different release probabilities and mobilities, the reserve and recycling pool of vesicles co-exist within a single cluster suggesting that small synaptic biomolecular condensates could regulate their nanoscale distribution. Here, we performed a large-scale activity-dependent phosphoproteome analysis of hippocampal neurons in vitro and identified Tau as a highly phosphorylated and disordered candidate protein. Single-molecule super-resolution microscopy revealed that Tau undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation to generate presynaptic nanoclusters whose density and number are regulated by activity. This activity-dependent diffusion process allows Tau to translocate into the presynapse where it forms biomolecular condensates, to selectively control the mobility of recycling vesicles. Tau, therefore, forms presynaptic nano-biomolecular condensates that regulate the nanoscale organization of synaptic vesicles in an activity-dependent manner.
PXD042097	37949888	Myristoylated, alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) regulates toll-like receptor 4 signaling in macrophages. 	LPS Time Course stimulation of WT and  MARCKS Immortalrized mouse macrophages	LPS, MARCKS, Macrophage	MARCKS (myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate) is a membrane-associated protein expressed in many cell types, including macrophages. MARCKS is functionally implicated in cell adhesion, phagocytosis, and inflammation. LPS (lipopolysaccharide) triggers inflammation via TLR4 (toll-like receptor 4).The presence of MARCKS and the formation of phospho-MARCKS in various cell types have been described, but the role(s) of MARCKS in regulating macrophage functions remain unclear. We investigated the role of MARCKS in inflammation. Confocal microscopy revealed that MARCKS and phospho-MARCKS increased localization to endosomes and the Golgi apparatus upon LPS stimulation.CRISPR-CAS9 mediated knockout of MARCKS in macrophages downregulated the production of TNF and IL6, suggesting a role for MARCKS in inflammatory responses. Our comprehensive proteomics analysis together with real-time metabolic assays comparing LPS-stimulation of WT and MARCKS knock-out macrophages provided insights into the involvement of MARCKS in specific biological processes including innate immune response, inflammatory response, cytokine production, and molecular functions such as extracellularly ATP-gated cation channel activity, electron transfer activity and oxidoreductase activity, uncovering specific proteins involved in regulating MARCKS activity upon LPS stimulation. MARCKS appears to be a key regulator of inflammation whose inhibition might be beneficial for therapeutic intervention in inflammatory diseases.
PXD028319	37950543	Phosphoproteome analyses pinpoint the F-box protein SLOW MOTION as a regulator of warm temperature-mediated hypocotyl growth in Arabidopsis. 	Arabidopsis SLOMO-Decoy line AP-MS	AP-MS, GFP trap, SLOMO-Decoy	Hypocotyl elongation is controlled by several signals and is a major characteristic of plants growing in darkness or under warm temperature. While already several molecular mechanisms associated with this process are known, protein degradation and associated E3 ligases have hardly been studied in the context of warm temperature. In a time-course phosphoproteome analysis on Arabidopsis seedlings exposed to control or warm ambient temperature, we observed reduced levels of diverse proteins over time, which could be due to transcription, translation, and/or degradation. In addition, we observed differential phosphorylation of the LRR F-box protein SLOMO MOTION (SLOMO) at two serine residues. We demonstrate that SLOMO is a negative regulator of hypocotyl growth, also under warm temperature conditions, and protein-protein interaction studies revealed possible interactors of SLOMO, such as MKK5, DWF1, and NCED4. We identified DWF1 as a likely SLOMO substrate and a regulator of warm temperature-mediated hypocotyl growth. We propose that warm temperature-mediated regulation of SLOMO activity controls the abundance of hypocotyl growth regulators, such as DWF1, through ubiquitin-mediated degradation.
PXD024957	37951597	Bi-allelic ACBD6 variants lead to a neurodevelopmental syndrome with progressive and complex movement disorders. 	Bi-allelic ACBD6 variants lead to a neurodevelopmental syndrome with progressive complex movement disorders 	ACBD6, IMP-1088, N-myristoylation, chemical proteomics, metabolic tagging, myristic acid alkyne YnMyr	The acyl-CoA-binding domain-containing protein 6 (ACBD6) is ubiquitously expressed, plays a role in the acylation of lipids and proteins, and regulates the N-myristoylation of proteins via N-myristoyltransferase enzymes (NMTs). However, its precise function in cells is still unclear, as is the consequence of ACBD6 defects on human pathophysiology. Utilizing exome sequencing and extensive international data sharing efforts, we identified 45 affected individuals from 28 unrelated families (consanguinity 93%) with bi-allelic pathogenic, predominantly loss-of-function (18/20) variants in ACBD6. We generated zebrafish and Xenopus tropicalis acbd6 knockouts by CRISPR/Cas9 and characterized the role of ACBD6 on protein N-myristoylation with YnMyr chemical proteomics in the model organisms and human cells, with the latter also being subjected further to ACBD6 peroxisomal localization studies. The affected individuals (23 males and 22 females), with ages ranging from 1 to 50 years old, typically present with a complex and progressive disease involving moderate-to-severe global developmental delay/intellectual disability (100%) with significant expressive language impairment (98%), movement disorders (97%), facial dysmorphism (95%), and mild cerebellar ataxia (85%) associated with gait impairment (94%), limb spasticity/hypertonia (76%), oculomotor (71%) and behavioural abnormalities (65%), overweight (59%), microcephaly (39%) and epilepsy (33%). The most conspicuous and common movement disorder was dystonia (94%), frequently leading to early-onset progressive postural deformities (97%), limb dystonia (55%), and cervical dystonia (31%). A jerky tremor in the upper limbs (63%), a mild head tremor (59%), parkinsonism/hypokinesia developing with advancing age (32%), and simple motor and vocal tics were among other frequent movement disorders. Midline brain malformations including corpus callosum abnormalities (70%), hypoplasia/agenesis of the anterior commissure (66%), short midbrain and small inferior cerebellar vermis (38% each), as well as hypertrophy of the clava (24%) were common neuroimaging findings. acbd6-deficient zebrafish and Xenopus models effectively recapitulated many clinical phenotypes reported in patients including movement disorders, progressive neuromotor impairment, seizures, microcephaly, craniofacial dysmorphism, and midbrain defects accompanied by developmental delay with increased mortality over time. Unlike ACBD5, ACBD6 did not show a peroxisomal localisation and ACBD6-deficiency was not associated with altered peroxisomal parameters in patient fibroblasts. Significant differences in YnMyr-labelling were observed for 68 co- and 18 post-translationally N-myristoylated proteins in patient-derived fibroblasts. N-Myristoylation was similarly affected in acbd6-deficient zebrafish and Xenopus tropicalis models, including Fus, Marcks, and Chchd-related proteins implicated in neurological diseases. The present study provides evidence that bi-allelic pathogenic variants in ACBD6 lead to a distinct neurodevelopmental syndrome accompanied by complex and progressive cognitive and movement disorders.
PXD045241	37952157	Skeletal muscle TFEB signaling promotes central nervous system function and reduces neuroinflammation during aging and neurodegenerative disease. 	Skeletal Muscle TFEB Signaling Promotes Central Nervous System Function and Reduces Neuroinflammation during Aging and Neurodegenerative Disease	DIA, aging, neurodegenerative disease, skeletal muscle, transcription factor	Skeletal muscle has recently arisen as a regulator of central nervous system (CNS) function and aging, secreting bioactive molecules known as myokines with metabolism-modifying functions in targeted tissues, including the CNS. Here, we report the generation of a transgenic mouse with enhanced skeletal muscle lysosomal and mitochondrial function via targeted overexpression of transcription factor E-B (TFEB). We discovered that the resulting geroprotective effects in skeletal muscle reduce neuroinflammation and the accumulation of tau-associated pathological hallmarks in a mouse model of tauopathy. Muscle-specific TFEB overexpression significantly ameliorates proteotoxicity, reduces neuroinflammation, and promotes transcriptional remodeling of the aged CNS, preserving cognition and memory in aged mice. Our results implicate the maintenance of skeletal muscle function throughout aging in direct regulation of CNS health and disease and suggest that skeletal muscle originating factors may act as therapeutic targets against age-associated neurodegenerative disorders.
PXD039852	37952184	Persulfidation of plant and bacteroid proteins is involved in legume nodule development and senescence. 	Persulfidation of plant and bacteroid proteins is involved in legume nodule development and senescence	Legumes, nodule development, nodule senescence, persulfidation, post-translational modifications, redox regulation, symbiosis	Legumes establish symbiosis with rhizobia forming nitrogen-fixing nodules. The central role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) in nodule biology has been clearly established. Recently, hydrogen sulfide (H2S) and other reactive sulfur species (RSS) have emerged as novel signaling molecules in animals and plants. A major mechanism by which ROS, RNS, and RSS fulfil their signaling role is the post-translational modification of proteins. To identify possible functions of H2S in nodule development and senescence, we used the tag-switch method to quantify changes in the persulfidation profile of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodules at different developmental stages. Proteomic analyses indicate that persulfidation plays a regulatory role in plant and bacteroid metabolism and senescence. The effect of a H2S donor on nodule functioning and on several proteins involved in ROS and RNS homeostasis was also investigated. Our results using recombinant proteins and nodulated plants support a crosstalk among H2S, ROS and RNS, a protective function of persulfidation on redox-sensitive enzymes, and a beneficial effect of H2S on symbiotic nitrogen fixation. We conclude that the general decrease of persulfidation levels observed in plant proteins of aging nodules is one of the mechanisms that disrupt redox homeostasis leading to senescence.
PXD043959	37952696	Identification of State-Specific Proteomic and Transcriptomic Signatures of Microglia-Derived Extracellular Vesicles. 	Identification of state-specific proteomic and transcriptomic signatures of microglia-derived extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesicles, RNA sequencing, microglia, neuroinflammation, transcriptomics	Microglia are resident immune cells of the brain that play important roles in mediating inflammatory responses in several neurological diseases via direct and indirect mechanisms. One indirect mechanism may involve extracellular vesicle (EV) release, so that the molecular cargo transported by microglia-derived EVs can have functional effects by facilitating intercellular communication. The molecular composition of microglia-derived EVs, and how microglial activation states impact EV composition and EV-mediated effects in neuroinflammation, remain poorly understood. We hypothesize that microglia-derived EVs have unique molecular profiles that are determined by microglial activation state. Using size-exclusion chromatography to purify EVs from BV2 microglia, combined with proteomic (label-free quantitative mass spectrometry or LFQ-MS) and transcriptomic (mRNA and noncoding RNA seq) methods, we obtained comprehensive molecular profiles of microglia-derived EVs. LFQ-MS identified several classic EV proteins (tetraspanins, ESCRT machinery, and heat shock proteins), in addition to over 200 proteins not previously reported in the literature. Unique mRNA and microRNA signatures of microglia-derived EVs were also identified. After treating BV2 microglia with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), interleukin-10, or transforming growth factor beta, to mimic pro-inflammatory, anti-inflammatory, or homeostatic states, respectively, LFQ-MS and RNA seq revealed novel state-specific proteomic and transcriptomic signatures of microglia-derived EVs. Particularly, LPS treatment had the most profound impact on proteomic and transcriptomic compositions of microglia-derived EVs. Furthermore, we found that EVs derived from LPS-activated microglia were able to induce pro-inflammatory transcriptomic changes in resting responder microglia, confirming the ability of microglia-derived EVs to relay functionally relevant inflammatory signals. These comprehensive microglia-EV molecular datasets represent important resources for the neuroscience and omics communities and provide novel insights into the role of microglia-derived EVs in neuroinflammation.
PXD040679	37954026	S-Ketamine Improves Slow Wave Sleep and the Associated Changes in Serum Protein Among Gynecological Abdominal Surgery Patients: A Randomized Controlled Trial. 	Serum proteomics under S-ketamine treatment with slow wave sleep changement	S-ketamine, serum proteomics, slow wave sleep	Purpose: This study aims to evaluate the effect of S-ketamine on slow wave sleep (SWS) and the related changes in serum protein in gynecological patients after open abdomen surgery. Methods: This was a randomized controlled trial. One hundred gynecological patients undergoing open abdomen surgery were randomized into an S-ketamine group (group S) or placebo group (0.9% saline; group C). During operation, patients in group S received adjuvant S-ketamine infusion (0.2 mg.kg(-1).h(-1)) while those in group C received 0.9% saline. All patients were connected to patient-controlled intravenous analgesia (PCIA) pump in the end of the surgery and the patients in group S with an additional S-ketamine in PCIA pump. Polysomnogram (PSG) was monitored during the next night after surgery with PCIA pump. Blood samples were collected for proteomic analysis at 6:00 AM after PSG monitoring. The primary outcome was the percentage of SWS (also known as stage 3 non-rapid eye movement sleep, stage N3) on the next night after surgery, and the secondary outcome was subjective sleep quality, pain scores, and the changes in serum proteomics. Results: Complete polysomnogram recordings were obtained from 64 study participants (31 in group C and 33 in group S). The administration of S-ketamine infusion resulted in a significant increase in the percentage of SWS/N3 compared to the control group (group C, median (IQR [range]), 8.9 (6.3, 12.5); group S, median (IQR [range]), 15.6 (12.4, 18.8), P<0.001). However, subjective evaluations of sleep quality revealed no significant variances between the two groups. The protein affected by S-ketamine was primarily associated with posttranslational modification, protein turnover, carbohydrate transport, and metabolism. Conclusion: In patients undergoing open gynecological surgery, S-ketamine enhanced the percentage of objective sleep of SWS during the next night after surgery. Additionally, there were differences observed in serum protein levels between the two groups. Trial Registration: ChiCTR2200055180. Registered on 02/01/2022.
PXD046079	37954246	Comparative secretomic and proteomic analysis reveal multiple defensive strategies developed by Vibrio cholerae against the heavy metal (Cd(2+), Ni(2+), Pb(2+), and Zn(2+)) stresses. 	Distinct Secretomes and Proteomes of Vibrio cholerae isolates indued by Sublethal Concentrations of Heavy Metals Cd2+, Ni2+, Pb2+, and Zn2+ Stresses	Vibrio cholerae, heavy metal, resistance mechanisms, secretome	Vibrio cholerae is a common waterborne pathogen that can cause pandemic cholera in humans. The bacterium with heavy metal-tolerant phenotypes is frequently isolated from aquatic products, however, its tolerance mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we investigated for the first time the response of such V. cholerae isolates (n = 3) toward the heavy metal (Cd(2+), Ni(2+), Pb(2+), and Zn(2+)) stresses by comparative secretomic and proteomic analyses. The results showed that sublethal concentrations of the Pb(2+) (200 mug/mL), Cd(2+) (12.5 mug/mL), and Zn(2+) (50 mug/mL) stresses for 2 h significantly decreased the bacterial cell membrane fluidity, but increased cell surface hydrophobicity and inner membrane permeability, whereas the Ni(2+) (50 mug/mL) stress increased cell membrane fluidity (p < 0.05). The comparative secretomic and proteomic analysis revealed differentially expressed extracellular and intracellular proteins involved in common metabolic pathways in the V. cholerae isolates to reduce cytotoxicity of the heavy metal stresses, such as biosorption, transportation and effluxing, extracellular sequestration, and intracellular antioxidative defense. Meanwhile, different defensive strategies were also found in the V. cholerae isolates to cope with different heavy metal damage. Remarkably, a number of putative virulence and resistance-associated proteins were produced and/or secreted by the V. cholerae isolates under the heavy metal stresses, suggesting an increased health risk in the aquatic products.
PXD023413	37954574	SnapKin: a snapshot deep learning ensemble for kinase-substrate prediction from phosphoproteomics data. 	Phosphoproteomics of C2C12 differentiation	C2C12 myoblast, myogenesis, phosphoproteomics	A major challenge in mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics lies in identifying the substrates of kinases, as currently only a small fraction of substrates identified can be confidently linked with a known kinase. Machine learning techniques are promising approaches for leveraging large-scale phosphoproteomics data to computationally predict substrates of kinases. However, the small number of experimentally validated kinase substrates (true positive) and the high data noise in many phosphoproteomics datasets together limit their applicability and utility. Here, we aim to develop advanced kinase-substrate prediction methods to address these challenges. Using a collection of seven large phosphoproteomics datasets, and both traditional and deep learning models, we first demonstrate that a 'pseudo-positive' learning strategy for alleviating small sample size is effective at improving model predictive performance. We next show that a data resampling-based ensemble learning strategy is useful for improving model stability while further enhancing prediction. Lastly, we introduce an ensemble deep learning model ('SnapKin') by incorporating the above two learning strategies into a 'snapshot' ensemble learning algorithm. We propose SnapKin, an ensemble deep learning method, for predicting substrates of kinases from large-scale phosphoproteomics data. We demonstrate that SnapKin consistently outperforms existing methods in kinase-substrate prediction. SnapKin is freely available at https://github.com/PYangLab/SnapKin.
PXD045880	37955133	Spontaneous nonsense mutation in Tuft1 (tuftelin 1) gene is associated with abnormal hair appearance and amelioration of glucose and lipid metabolism in the rat. 	Spontaneous nonsense mutation in Tuft1 (tuftelin 1) gene is associated with abnormal hair appearance and amelioration of glucose and lipid metabolism in the rat	Tuft1 (tuftelin 1) gene, hepatic proteome, lipid and glucose metabolism, rat, spontaneous nonsense mutation	Recently, we identified a recessive mutation, an abnormal coat appearance in BXH6 strain, a member of the HXB/BXH set of recombinant inbred (RI) strains. The RI strains were derived from the SHR (spontaneously hypertensive rat) and BN-Lx (Brown Norway rat) progenitors. Whole genome sequencing of the mutant rats identified the 195875980 G/A mutation in the Tuft1 (tuftelin 1) gene on chromosome 2, which resulted in a premature stop codon. Compared to wild-type BXH6 rats, BXH6-Tuft1 mutant rats exhibited lower body weight due to reduced visceral fat and ectopic fat accumulation in the liver and heart. Reduced adiposity was associated with decreased serum glucose and insulin, and increased insulin-stimulated glycogenesis in skeletal muscle. In addition, mutant rats had lower serum MCP-1 and leptin levels, indicative of reduced inflammation. Analysis of the liver proteome identified differentially expressed proteins from fatty acid metabolism and beta oxidation, peroxisomes, carbohydrate metabolism, inflammation, and proteasome pathways. These results provide evidence for an important role of Tuft1 gene in the regulation of lipid and glucose metabolism and suggest underlying molecular mechanisms.
PXD043191	37956323	Sensitive Blood-Based Detection of HIV-1 and Mycobacterium tuberculosis Peptides for Disease Diagnosis by Immuno-Affinity Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry: A Method Development and Proof-of-Concept Study. 	Sensitive detection of HIV-1 and Mycobacterium tuberculosis peptides in blood for rapid diagnosis of co-infected individuals by immuno-affinity liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry	CFP10, HIV-1, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, p24	BACKGROUND: Novel approaches that allow early diagnosis and treatment monitoring of both human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) and tuberculosis disease (TB) are essential to improve patient outcomes. METHODS: We developed and validated an immuno-affinity liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (ILM) assay that simultaneously quantifies single peptides derived from HIV-1 p24 and Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) 10-kDa culture filtrate protein (CFP10) in trypsin-digested serum derived from cryopreserved serum archives of cohorts of adults and children with/without HIV and TB. RESULTS: ILM p24 and CFP10 results demonstrated good intra-laboratory precision and accuracy, with recovery values of 96.7% to 104.6% and 88.2% to 111.0%, total within-laboratory precision (CV) values of 5.68% to 13.25% and 10.36% to 14.92%, and good linearity (r2 > 0.99) from 1.0 to 256.0 pmol/L and 0.016 to 16.000 pmol/L, respectively. In cohorts of adults (n = 34) and children (n = 17) with HIV and/or TB, ILM detected p24 and CFP10 demonstrated 85.7% to 88.9% and 88.9% to 100.0% diagnostic sensitivity for HIV-1 and TB, with 100% specificity for both, and detected HIV-1 infection earlier than 3 commercial p24 antigen/antibody immunoassays. Finally, p24 and CFP10 values measured in longitudinal serum samples from children with HIV-1 and TB distinguished individuals who responded to TB treatment from those who failed to respond or were untreated, and who developed TB immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. CONCLUSIONS: Simultaneous ILM evaluation of p24 and CFP10 results may allow for early TB and HIV detection and provide valuable information on treatment response to facilitate integration of TB and HIV diagnosis and management.
PXD041811	37956648	Potential prognostic biomarkers of hepatocellular carcinoma based on 4D label-free quantitative proteomics analysis pilot investigation. 	Diagnostic biomarkers of hepatocellular carcinoma based on 4D label-free quantitative proteomics analysis.	4D label-free quantitative proteomics, Biomarker, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Kaplan-Meier curves, differentially expressed proteins	BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma carries a poor prognosis and poses a serious threat to global health. Currently, there are few potential prognostic biomarkers available for the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. METHODS: This pilot study used 4D label-free quantitative proteomics to compare the proteomes of hepatocellular carcinoma and adjacent non-tumor tissue. A total of 66,075 peptides, 6363 identified proteins, and 772 differentially expressed proteins were identified in specimens from three hepatocellular carcinoma patients. Through functional enrichment analysis of differentially expressed proteins by Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway, and protein domain, we identified proteins with similar functions. RESULTS: Twelve differentially expressed proteins (RPL17, RPL27, RPL27A, RPS5, RPS16, RSL1D1, DDX18, RRP12, TARS2, YARS2, MARS2, and NARS1) were selected for identification and validation by parallel reaction monitoring. Subsequent Western blotting confirmed overexpression of RPL27, RPS16, and TARS2 in hepatocellular carcinoma compared to non-tumor tissue in 16 pairs of clinical samples. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas datasets associated the increased expression of these proteins with poor prognosis. Tissue microarray revealed a negative association between high expression of RPL27 and TARS2 and the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma patients, although RPS16 was not significant. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that RPL27 and TARS2 play an important role in hepatocellular carcinoma progression and may be potential prognostic biomarkers of overall survival in hepatocellular carcinoma patients.
PXD042172	37956981	Sensitive and Specific Global Cell Surface N-Glycoproteomics Shows Profound Differences Between Glycosylation Sites and Subcellular Components. 	Cell surface-specific N-glycoproteomics	N-glycan, cell surface, glycoproteomics, keratinocytes	Cell surface glycans are essential for establishing cell communication, adhesion, and migration. However, it remains challenging to obtain cell surface-specific information about glycoconjugate structures. Acquiring this information is essential for unraveling the functional role of glycans and for exploiting them as clinical targets. To specifically analyze the N-glycoprotein forms expressed at the cell surface, we developed a C18 liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectrometry (MS)-based glycoproteomics method in combination with highly specific cell surface protein labeling and enrichment using a biotin label. The surface-specificity of the method was validated by MS-based proteomics of subcellular component marker proteins. Using the human keratinocytes N/TERT-1 as a model system, we identified and quantified the glycosylation of hundreds of cell surface N-glycosylation sites. This approach allowed us to study the glycoforms present at the functional relevant cell surface, omitting immaturely glycosylated proteins present in the secretory pathway. Interestingly, the different stages of N-glycan processing at individual sites displayed at the cell surface were found to correlate with their accessibility for ER-residing processing enzymes, as investigated through molecular dynamics simulations. Using the new approach, we compared N-glycosylation sites of proteins expressed on the cell surface to their counterparts in a total cell lysate, showing profound differences in glycosylation between the subcellular components and indicating the relevance of the method for future studies in understanding contextual glycan functions.
PXD038262	37957156	Local membrane source gathering by p62 body drives autophagosome formation. 	Quantitative proteomics profilling of p62 droplet	Quantitative proteomics, p62 droplet, phase separation, vesicle	Autophagosomes are double-membrane vesicles generated intracellularly to encapsulate substrates for lysosomal degradation during autophagy. Phase separated p62 body plays pivotal roles during autophagosome formation, however, the underlying mechanisms are still not fully understood. Here we describe a spatial membrane gathering mode by which p62 body functions in autophagosome formation. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics reveals significant enrichment of vesicle trafficking components within p62 body. Combining cellular experiments and biochemical reconstitution assays, we confirm the gathering of ATG9 and ATG16L1-positive vesicles around p62 body, especially in Atg2ab DKO cells with blocked lipid transfer and vesicle fusion. Interestingly, p62 body also regulates ATG9 and ATG16L vesicle trafficking flux intracellularly. We further determine the lipid contents associated with p62 body via lipidomic profiling. Moreover, with in vitro kinase assay, we uncover the functions of p62 body as a platform to assemble ULK1 complex and invigorate PI3KC3-C1 kinase cascade for PI3P generation. Collectively, our study raises a membrane-based working model for multifaceted p62 body in controlling autophagosome biogenesis, and highlights the interplay between membraneless condensates and membrane vesicles in regulating cellular functions.
PXD030329	37958567	Proteomic Analyses Discern the Developmental Inclusion of Albumin in Pig Enamel: A New Model for Human Enamel Hypomineralization. 	Pig Enamel, Saliva and Serum Proteome	enamel, pig, saliva, serum proteomics	Excess albumin in enamel is a characteristic of the prevalent developmental dental defect known as chalky teeth or molar hypomineralization (MH). This study uses proteomic analyses of pig teeth to discern between developmental origin and post-eruptive contamination and to assess the similarity to hypomineralized human enamel. Here, the objective is to address the urgent need for an animal model to uncover the etiology of MH and to improve treatment. Porcine enamel is chalky and soft at eruption; yet, it hardens quickly to form a hard surface and then resembles human teeth with demarcated enamel opacities. Proteomic analyses of enamel from erupted teeth, serum, and saliva from pigs aged 4 (n = 3) and 8 weeks (n = 2) and human (n = 4) molars with demarcated enamel opacities show alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). AFP expression is limited to pre- and perinatal development and its presence in enamel indicates pre- or perinatal inclusion. In contrast, albumin is expressed after birth, indicating postnatal inclusion into enamel. Peptides were extracted from enamel and analyzed by nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nanoLC-MS/MS) after tryptic digestion. The mean total protein number was 337 in the enamel of all teeth with 13 different unique tryptic peptides of porcine AFP in all enamel samples but none in saliva samples. Similarities in the composition, micro-hardness, and microstructure underscore the usefulness of the porcine model to uncover the MH etiology, cellular mechanisms of albumin inclusion, and treatment for demarcated opacities.
PXD039100	37958584	SNHG15-Mediated Localization of Nucleolin at the Cell Protrusions Regulates CDH2 mRNA Expression and Cell Invasion. 	Identification of SNHG15 Binding Protein in SNHG15 overexpression BT549 cells Using MS2 Pull down and Mass Spectrometry	MS2 Pull down, SNHG15	LncRNAs are emerging as important regulators of gene expression by controlling transcription in the nucleus and by modulating mRNA translation in the cytoplasm. In this study, we reveal a novel function of lncRNA SNHG15 in mediating breast cancer cell invasion through regulating the local translation of CDH2 mRNA. We show that SNHG15 preferentially localizes at the cellular protrusions or cell leading edge and that this localization is directed by IMP1, a multifunctional protein involved in many aspects of RNA regulation. We demonstrate that SNHG15 also forms a complex with nucleolin, allowing nucleolin to be co-transported with SNHG15 to the cell protrusions, where the accumulated nucleolin is able to bind to CDH2 mRNA. Interaction with nucleolin stabilizes local CDH2 mRNA and regulates its translation, thus promoting cell invasive potential. Our findings reveal an underlying mechanism by which lncRNA could serve as a carrier to transport a protein regulator into a specific cell compartment to enhance target mRNA expression.
PXD044061	37958732	The Viral Protein Poly(A) Polymerase Catalytic Subunit Interacts with Guanylate-Binding Proteins 2 to Antagonize the Antiviral Ability of Targeting Ectromelia Virus. 	The role of Guanylate-binding protein in Ectromelia virus	Guanylate-binding protein	The recent spread of the monkeypox virus among humans has heightened concerns regarding orthopoxvirus infections. Consequently, conducting a comprehensive study on the immunobiology of the monkeypox virus is imperative for the development of effective therapeutics. Ectromelia virus (ECTV) closely resembles the genetic and disease characteristics of monkeypox virus, making it a valuable research tool for studying orthopoxvirus-host interactions. Guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs), highly expressed interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), have antagonistic effects against various intracellular pathogenic microorganisms. Our previous research has shown that GBP2 has a mild but statistically significant inhibitory effect on ECTV infection. The presence of a significant number of molecules in the poxvirus genome that encode the host immune response raises questions about whether it also includes proteins that counteract the antiviral activity of GBP2. Using IP/MS and co-IP technology, we discovered that the poly(A) polymerase catalytic subunit (PAPL) protein of ECTV is a viral regulatory molecule that interacts with GBP2. Further studies have shown that PAPL antagonizes the antiviral activity of GBP2 by reducing its protein levels. Knocking out the PAPL gene of ECTV with the CRISPR/Cas9 system significantly diminishes the replication ability of the virus, indicating the indispensable role of PAPL in the replication process of ECTV. In conclusion, our study presents preliminary evidence supporting the significance of PAPL as a virulence factor that can interact with GBP2.
PXD046490	37958984	Targeting NADPH Oxidase and Integrin alpha5beta1 to Inhibit Neutrophil Extracellular Traps-Mediated Metastasis in Colorectal Cancer. 	Targeting NADPH oxidase and integrin alpha5beta1 to inhibit neutrophil extracellular traps-mediated metastasis in colorectal cancer	Colorectal cancer, Combination therapy, Metastasis, Neutrophil extracellular traps, Quantitative proteomics	Metastasis leads to a high mortality rate in colorectal cancer (CRC). Increased neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation is one of the main causes of metastasis. However, the mechanism of NETs-mediated metastasis remains unclear and effective treatments are lacking. In this study, we found neutrophils from CRC patients have enhanced NETs formation capacity and increased NETs positively correlate with CRC progression. By quantitative proteomic analysis of clinical samples and cell lines, we found that decreased secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC) results in massive NETs formation and integrin alpha5beta1 is the hub protein of NETs-tumor cell interaction. Mechanistically, SPARC regulates the activation of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase (NADPH oxidase) pathway by interacting with the receptor for activated C kinase 1 (RACK1). Over-activated NADPH oxidase generates more reactive oxygen species (ROS), leading to the release of NETs. Then, NETs upregulate the expression of integrin alpha5beta1 in tumor cells, which enhances adhesion and activates the downstream signaling pathways to promote proliferation and migration. The combination of NADPH oxidase inhibitor diphenyleneiodonium chloride (DPI) and integrin alpha5beta1 inhibitor ATN-161 (Ac-PHSCN-NH2) effectively suppresses tumor progression in vivo. Our work reveals the mechanistic link between NETs and tumor progression and suggests a combination therapy against NETs-mediated metastasis for CRC.
PXD046083	37959749	Global Proteome-Wide Analysis of Cysteine S-Nitrosylation in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Global proteome-wide analysis of cysteine S-nitrosylation in Toxoplasma gondii	S-nitrosylated pro-teome, Toxoplasma gondii, cysteine S-nitrosylation, post-translational modifications	Toxoplasma gondii transmits through various routes, rapidly proliferates during acute infection and causes toxoplasmosis, which is an important zoonotic disease in human and veterinary medicine. T. gondii can produce nitric oxide and derivatives, and S-nitrosylation contributes to their signaling transduction and post-translation regulation. To date, the S-nitrosylation proteome of T. gondii remains mystery. In this study, we reported the first S-nitrosylated proteome of T. gondii using mass spectrometry in combination with resin-assisted enrichment. We found that 637 proteins were S-nitrosylated, more than half of which were localized in the nucleus or cytoplasm. Motif analysis identified seven motifs. Of these motifs, five and two contained lysine and isoleucine, respectively. Gene Ontology enrichment revealed that S-nitrosylated proteins were primarily located in the inner membrane of mitochondria and other organelles. These S-nitrosylated proteins participated in diverse biological and metabolic processes, including organic acid binding, carboxylic acid binding ribose and phosphate biosynthesis. T. gondii S-nitrosylated proteins significantly contributed to glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis. Moreover, 27 ribosomal proteins and 11 microneme proteins were identified as S-nitrosylated proteins, suggesting that proteins in the ribosome and microneme were predominantly S-nitrosylated. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified three subnetworks with high-relevancy ribosome, RNA transport and chaperonin complex components. These results imply that S-nitrosylated proteins of T. gondii are associated with protein translation in the ribosome, gene transcription, invasion and proliferation of T. gondii. Our research is the first to identify the S-nitrosylated proteomic profile of T. gondii and will provide direction to the ongoing investigation of the functions of S-nitrosylated proteins in T. gondii.
PXD043162	37960070	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Deciphers the Molecular Mechanism for Endosperm Nuclear Division in Early Rice Seed Development. 	Proteomic profiling for elucidating the molecular mechanism in early seed development in rice	CTP synthase, Early seed development, MCM proteins, Protein stability, Proteomic profiling, Rice	Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying early seed development is important in improving the grain yield and quality of crop plants. We performed a comparative label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of developing rice seeds for the WT and osctps1-2 mutant, encoding a cytidine triphosphate synthase previously reported as the endospermless 2 (enl2) mutant in rice, harvested at 0 and 1 d after pollination (DAP) to understand the molecular mechanism of early seed development. In total, 5231 proteins were identified, of which 902 changed in abundance between 0 and 1 DAP seeds. Proteins that preferentially accumulated at 1 DAP were involved in DNA replication and pyrimidine biosynthetic pathways. Notably, an increased abundance of OsCTPS1 was observed at 1 DAP; however, no such changes were observed at the transcriptional level. We further observed that the inhibition of phosphorylation increased the stability of this protein. Furthermore, in osctps1-2, minichromosome maintenance (MCM) proteins were significantly reduced compared with those in the WT at 1 DAP, and mutations in OsMCM5 caused defects in seed development. These results highlight the molecular mechanisms underlying early seed development in rice at the post-transcriptional level.
PXD045639	37960344	Multi-Omics Data Integration Reveals Sex-Dependent Hippocampal Programming by Maternal High-Fat Diet during Lactation in Adult Mouse Offspring. 	Multi-omics data integration reveals sex-dependent hippocampal programming by maternal high-fat diet during lactation in adult mouse offspring	Maternal high-fat diet, hippocampus, multiomics, sexual dimorphism	Early-life exposure to high-fat diets (HF) can program metabolic and cognitive alterations in adult offspring. Although the hippocampus plays a crucial role in memory and metabolic homeostasis, few studies have reported the impact of maternal HF on this structure. We assessed the effects of maternal HF during lactation on physiological, metabolic, and cognitive parameters in young adult offspring mice. To identify early-programming mechanisms in the hippocampus, we developed a multi-omics strategy in male and female offspring. Maternal HF induced a transient increased body weight at weaning, and a mild glucose intolerance only in 3-month-old male mice with no change in plasma metabolic parameters in adult male and female offspring. Behavioral alterations revealed by a Barnes maze test were observed both in 6-month-old male and female mice. The multi-omics strategy unveiled sex-specific transcriptomic and proteomic modifications in the hippocampus of adult offspring. These studies that were confirmed by regulon analysis show that, although genes whose expression was modified by maternal HF were different between sexes, the main pathways affected were similar with mitochondria and synapses as main hippocampal targets of maternal HF. The effects of maternal HF reported here may help to better characterize sex-dependent molecular pathways involved in cognitive disorders and neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD051502	37961702	Borrowing Transcriptional Kinases to Activate Apoptosis. 	Relocalizing transcriptional kinases to activate apoptosis_Proteomics Data	Kinase, cancer, lymphoma, transcription	Protein kinases are disease drivers whose therapeutic targeting traditionally centers on inhibition of enzymatic activity. Here chemically induced proximity is leveraged to convert kinase inhibitors into context-specific activators of therapeutic genes. Bivalent molecules that link ligands of the transcription factor B-cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) to ATP-competitive inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) were developed to re-localize CDK to BCL6-bound loci on chromatin and direct phosphorylation of RNA Pol II. The resulting BCL6-target proapoptotic gene expression translated into killing of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells at 72 h with EC50s of 0.9 - 10 nM and highly specific ablation of the BCL6-regulated germinal center response in mice. The molecules exhibited 10,000-fold lower cytotoxicity in normal lymphocytes and are well tolerated in mice. Genomic and proteomic evidence corroborated a gain-of-function mechanism where, instead of global enzyme inhibition, a fraction of total kinase activity is borrowed and re-localized to BCL6-bound loci. The strategy demonstrates how kinase inhibitors can be used to context-specifically activate transcription, accessing new therapeutic space.
PXD044393	37962907	Enhancing Proteome Coverage by Using Strong Anion-Exchange in Tandem with Basic-pH Reversed-Phase Chromatography for Sample Multiplexing-Based Proteomics. 	Enhancing proteome coverage by using strong anion exchange in tandem with basic-pH reversed-phase chromatography for sample multiplexing-based proteomics	Eclipse, FAIMS, RTS, SAX, SPS-MS3, TMTpro	Sample multiplexing-based proteomic strategies rely on fractionation to improve proteome coverage. Tandem mass tag (TMT) experiments, for example, can currently accommodate up to 18 samples with proteins spanning several orders of magnitude, thus necessitating fractionation to achieve reasonable proteome coverage. Here, we present a simple yet effective peptide fractionation strategy that partitions a pooled TMT sample with a two-step elution using a strong anion-exchange (SAX) spin column prior to gradient-based basic pH reversed-phase (BPRP) fractionation. We highlight our strategy with a TMTpro18-plex experiment using nine diverse human cell lines in biological duplicate. We collected three data sets, one using only BPRP fractionation and two others of each SAX-partition followed by BPRP. The three data sets quantified a similar number of proteins and peptides, and the data highlight noticeable differences in the distribution of peptide charge and isoelectric point between the SAX partitions. The combined SAX partition data set contributed 10% more proteins and 20% more unique peptides that were not quantified by BPRP fractionation alone. In addition to this improved fractionation strategy, we provide an online resource of relative abundance profiles for over 11,000 proteins across the nine human cell lines, as well as two additional experiments using ovarian and pancreatic cancer cell lines.
PXD044845	37963819	Eye proteome of Drosophila melanogaster. 	Eye proteome of Drosophila melanogaster	Drosophila melanogaster, Eye, GeLC-MS/MS	Drosophila melanogaster is a popular model organism to elucidate the molecular mechanisms that underlie the structure and function of the eye as well as the causes of retinopathies, aging, light-induced damage, or dietary deficiencies. Large-scale screens have isolated genes whose mutation causes morphological and functional ocular defects, which led to the discovery of key components of the phototransduction cascade. However, the proteome of the Drosophila eye is poorly characterized. Here, we used GeLC-MS/MS to quantify 3516 proteins, including the absolute (molar) quantities of 43 proteins in the eye of adult male Drosophila reared on standard laboratory food. This work provides a generic and expandable resource for further genetic, pharmacological, and dietary studies.
PXD041357	37963825	Capillary zone electrophoresis-high field asymmetric ion mobility spectrometry-tandem mass spectrometry for top-down characterization of histone proteoforms. 	Capillary Zone Electrophoresis-High Field Asymmetric Ion Mobility Spectrometry-Tandem Mass Spectrometry for Top-down Characterization of Histone Proteoforms	capillary zone electrophoresis, high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry, histone, post-translational modification, top-down proteomics	Characterization of histone proteoforms with various post-translational modifications (PTMs) is critical for a better understanding of functions of histone proteoforms in epigenetic control of gene expression. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based top-down proteomics (TDP) is a valuable approach for delineating histone proteoforms because it can provide us with a bird's-eye view of histone proteoforms carrying diverse combinations of PTMs. Here, we present the first example of coupling capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE), ion mobility spectrometry (IMS), and MS for online multi-dimensional separations of histone proteoforms. Our CZE-high-field asymmetric waveform IMS (FAIMS)-MS/MS platform identified 366 (ProSight PD) and 602 (TopPIC) histone proteoforms from a commercial calf histone sample using a low microgram amount of histone sample as the starting material. CZE-FAIMS-MS/MS improved the number of histone proteoform identifications by about 3 folds compared to CZE-MS/MS alone (without FAIMS). The results indicate that CZE-FAIMS-MS/MS could be a useful tool for comprehensive characterization of histone proteoforms with high sensitivity.
PXD042341	37963875	An adaptive stress response that confers cellular resilience to decreased ubiquitination. 	Proteomic changes induced by knockdown of UBA1 and of E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes in human HEK293 cells (UBE2Q1, UBE2QL1, UBER, UBE2S).Proteomic changes induced by knockdown of UBA1 and of E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes in human HEK293 cells (Ctrl,	E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, UBA1, human cells, ubiquitin	Ubiquitination is a post-translational modification initiated by the E1 enzyme UBA1, which transfers ubiquitin to ~35 E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. While UBA1 loss is cell lethal, it remains unknown how partial reduction in UBA1 activity is endured. Here, we utilize deep-coverage mass spectrometry to define the E1-E2 interactome and to determine the proteins that are modulated by knockdown of UBA1 and of each E2 in human cells. These analyses define the UBA1/E2-sensitive proteome and the E2 specificity in protein modulation. Interestingly, profound adaptations in peroxisomes and other organelles are triggered by decreased ubiquitination. While the cargo receptor PEX5 depends on its mono-ubiquitination for binding to peroxisomal proteins and importing them into peroxisomes, we find that UBA1/E2 knockdown induces the compensatory upregulation of other PEX proteins necessary for PEX5 docking to the peroxisomal membrane. Altogether, this study defines a homeostatic mechanism that sustains peroxisomal protein import in cells with decreased ubiquitination capacity.
PXD045254	37964351	ADSC secretome constrains NK cell activity by attenuating IL-2-mediated JAK-STAT and AKT signaling pathway via upregulation of CIS and DUSP4. 	Screening of Adipose mesenchymal stem cell derived secretome	MSC, secretome	BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have immunomodulatory properties and therapeutic effects on autoimmune diseases through their secreted factors, referred to as the secretome. However, the specific key factors of the MSC secretome and their mechanisms of action in immune cells have not been fully determined. Most in vitro experiments are being performed using immune cells, but experiments using natural killer (NK) cells have been neglected, and a few studies using NK cells have shown discrepancies in results. NK cells are crucial elements of the immune system, and adjustment of their activity is essential for controlling various pathological conditions. The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of the adipose tissue-derived stem cell (ADSC) secretome on NK cell activity. METHODS: To obtain the ADSC secretome, we cultured ADSCs in medium and concentrated the culture medium using tangential flow filtration (TFF) capsules. We assessed NK cell viability and proliferation using CCK-8 and CFSE assays, respectively. We analyzed the effects of the ADSC secretome on NK cell activity and pathway-related proteins using a combination of flow cytometry, ELISA, cytotoxicity assay, CD107a assay, western blotting, and quantitative real-time PCR. To identify the composition of the ADSC secretome, we performed LC-MS/MS profiling and bioinformatics analysis. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved, we used mRNA sequencing to profile the transcriptional expression of human blood NK cells. RESULTS: The ADSC secretome was found to restrict IL-2-mediated effector function of NK cells while maintaining proliferative potency. This effect was achieved through the upregulation of the inhibitory receptor CD96, as well as downregulation of activating receptors and IL-2 receptor subunits IL-2Ralpha and IL-2Rgamma. These changes were associated with attenuated JAK-STAT and AKT pathways in NK cells, which were achieved through the upregulation of cytokine-inducible SH2-containing protein (CIS, encoded by Cish) and dual specificity protein phosphatase 4 (DUSP4). Furthermore, proteomic analysis revealed twelve novel candidates associated with the immunomodulatory effects of MSCs. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal a detailed cellular outcome and regulatory mechanism of NK cell activity by the ADSC secretome and suggest a therapeutic tool for treating NK-mediated inflammatory and autoimmune diseases using the MSC secretome.
PXD038641	37965006	Two related families of metal transferases, ZNG1 and ZNG2, are involved in acclimation to poor Zn nutrition in Arabidopsis. 	Translesion DNA synthesis polymerase  is essential to a carcinogen-induced nucleolar stress response	human iPond DNA repair polymerase	Metal homeostasis has evolved to tightly modulate the availability of metals within the cell, avoiding cytotoxic interactions due to excess and protein inactivity due to deficiency. Even in the presence of homeostatic processes, however, low bioavailability of these essential metal nutrients in soils can negatively impact crop health and yield. While research has largely focused on how plants assimilate metals, acclimation to metal-limited environments requires a suite of strategies that are not necessarily involved in metal transport across membranes. The identification of these mechanisms provides a new opportunity to improve metal-use efficiency and develop plant foodstuffs with increased concentrations of bioavailable metal nutrients. Here, we investigate the function of two distinct subfamilies of the nucleotide-dependent metallochaperones (NMCs), named ZNG1 and ZNG2, that are found in plants, using Arabidopsis thaliana as a reference organism. AtZNG1 (AT1G26520) is an ortholog of human and fungal ZNG1, and like its previously characterized eukaryotic relatives, localizes to the cytosol and physically interacts with methionine aminopeptidase type I (AtMAP1A). Analysis of AtZNG1, AtMAP1A, AtMAP2A, and AtMAP2B transgenic mutants are consistent with the role of Arabidopsis ZNG1 as a Zn transferase for AtMAP1A, as previously described in yeast and zebrafish. Structural modeling reveals a flexible cysteine-rich loop that we hypothesize enables direct transfer of Zn from AtZNG1 to AtMAP1A during GTP hydrolysis. Based on proteomics and transcriptomics, loss of this ancient and conserved mechanism has pleiotropic consequences impacting the expression of hundreds of genes, including those involved in photosynthesis and vesicle transport. Members of the plant-specific family of NMCs, ZNG2A1 (AT1G80480) and ZNG2A2 (AT1G15730), are also required during Zn deficiency, but their target protein(s) remain to be discovered. RNA-seq analyses reveal wide-ranging impacts across the cell when the genes encoding these plastid-localized NMCs are disrupted.
PXD045705	37965024	Insights into enhancing Centella asiatica organ cell biofactories via hairy root protein profiling. 	Insights into enhancing Centella asiatica organ cell biofactories via hairy root protein profiling	Centella asiatica, Centelloside production, Rhizobium rhizogenes, biomarkers, molecular farming, plant biotechnology	Recent advancements in plant biotechnology have highlighted the potential of hairy roots as a biotechnological platform, primarily due to their rapid growth and ability to produce specialized metabolites. This study aimed to delve deeper into hairy root development in C. asiatica and explore the optimization of genetic transformation for enhanced bioactive compound production. Previously established hairy root lines of C. asiatica were categorized based on their centelloside production capacity into HIGH, MID, or LOW groups. These lines were then subjected to a meticulous label-free proteomic analysis to identify and quantify proteins. Subsequent multivariate and protein network analyses were conducted to discern proteome differences and commonalities. Additionally, the quantification of rol gene copy numbers was undertaken using qPCR, followed by gene expression measurements. From the proteomic analysis, 213 proteins were identified. Distinct proteome differences, especially between the LOW line and other lines, were observed. Key proteins related to essential processes like photosynthesis and specialized metabolism were identified. Notably, potential biomarkers, such as the Tr-type G domain-containing protein and alcohol dehydrogenase, were found in the HIGH group. The presence of ornithine cyclodeaminase in the hairy roots emerged as a significant biomarker linked with centelloside production capacity lines, indicating successful Rhizobium-mediated genetic transformation. However, qPCR results showed an inconsistency with rol gene expression levels, with the HIGH line displaying notably higher expression, particularly of the rolD gene. The study unveiled the importance of ornithine cyclodeaminase as a traceable biomarker for centelloside production capacity. The strong correlation between this biomarker and the rolD gene emphasizes its potential role in optimizing genetic transformation processes in C. asiatica.
PXD045389	37965896	The nucleolar protein GNL3 prevents resection of stalled replication forks. 	BioID analysis of human protein GNL3		Faithful DNA replication requires specific proteins that protect replication forks and so prevent the formation of DNA lesions that may damage the genome. Identification of new proteins involved in this process is essential to understand how DNA lesions accumulate in cancer cells and how they tolerate them. Here, we show that human GNL3/nucleostemin, a GTP-binding protein localized mostly in the nucleolus and highly expressed in cancer cells, prevents nuclease-dependent resection of nascent DNA in response to replication stress. We demonstrate that inhibiting origin firing reduces resection. This suggests that the heightened replication origin activation observed upon GNL3 depletion largely drives the observed DNA resection probably due to the exhaustion of the available RPA pool. We show that GNL3 and DNA replication initiation factor ORC2 interact in the nucleolus and that the concentration of GNL3 in the nucleolus is required to limit DNA resection. We propose that the control of origin firing by GNL3 through the sequestration of ORC2 in the nucleolus is critical to prevent nascent DNA resection in response to replication stress.
PXD045152	37965964	Revised Model for the Type A Glycan Biosynthetic Pathway in Clostridioides difficile Strain 630Deltaerm Based on Quantitative Proteomics of cd0241-cd0244 Mutant Strains. 	A revised model for the Type A glycan biosynthetic pathway in Clostridioides difficile strain 630erm based on quantitative proteomics of cd0241-cd0244 mutant strains	Glycation, biosynthesis, enzyme, flagella	The bacterial flagellum is involved in a variety of processes including motility, adherence, and immunomodulation. In the Clostridioides difficile strain 630Deltaerm, the main filamentous component, FliC, is post-translationally modified with an O-linked Type A glycan structure. This modification is essential for flagellar function, since motility is seriously impaired in gene mutants with improper biosynthesis of the Type A glycan. The cd0240-cd0244 gene cluster encodes the Type A biosynthetic proteins, but the role of each gene, and the corresponding enzymatic activity, have not been fully elucidated. Using quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics analyses, we determined the relative abundance of the observed glycan variations of the Type A structure in cd0241, cd0242, cd0243, and cd0244 mutant strains. Our data not only confirm the importance of CD0241, CD0242, and CD0243 but, in contrast to previous data, also show that CD0244 is essential for the biosynthesis of the Type A modification. Combined with additional bioinformatic analyses, we propose a revised model for Type A glycan biosynthesis.
PXD033020	37966053	A proteomic perspective on the resistance response of Klebsiella pneumoniae to antimicrobial peptide PaDBS1R1. 	The resistance response of Klebsiella pneumoniae against the antimicrobial peptide PaDBS1R1	G-PTM-D, MPLEx, MetaMorpheus, NormalyzerDE	BACKGROUND: The synthetic antimicrobial peptide, PaDBS1R1, has been reported as a powerful anti-Klebsiella pneumoniae antimicrobial. However, there is only scarce knowledge about whether K. pneumoniae could develop resistance against PaDBS1R1 and which resistance mechanisms could be involved. OBJECTIVES: Identify via label-free shotgun proteomics the K. pneumoniae resistance mechanisms developed against PaDBS1R1. METHODS: An adaptive laboratory evolution experiment was performed to obtain a PaDBS1R1-resistant K. pneumoniae lineage. Antimicrobial susceptibility was determined through microdilution assay. Modifications in protein abundances between the resistant and sensitive lineages were measured via label-free quantitative shotgun proteomics. Enriched Gene Ontology terms and KEGG pathways were identified through over-representation analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033020. RESULTS: K. pneumoniae ATCC 13883 parental strain challenged with increased subinhibitory PaDBS1R1 concentrations allowed the PaDBS1R1-resistant K. pneumoniae lineage to emerge. Proteome comparisons between PaDBS1R1-resistant K. pneumoniae and PaDBS1R1-sensitive K. pneumoniae under PaDBS1R1-induced stress conditions enabled the identification and quantification of 1702 proteins, out of which 201 were differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). The profiled DAPs comprised 103 up-regulated proteins (adjusted P value < 0.05, fold change >= 2) and 98 down-regulated proteins (adjusted P value < 0.05, fold change <= 0.5). The enrichment analysis suggests that PhoPQ-guided LPS modifications and CpxRA-dependent folding machinery could be relevant resistance mechanisms against PaDBS1R1. CONCLUSIONS: Based on experimental evolution and a label-free quantitative shotgun proteomic approach, we showed that K. pneumoniae developed resistance against PaDBS1R1, whereas PhoPQ-guided LPS modifications and CpxRA-dependent folding machinery appear to be relevant resistance mechanisms against PaDBS1R1.
PXD041545	37968262	mTOR inhibition suppresses salinomycin-induced ferroptosis in breast cancer stem cells by ironing out mitochondrial dysfunctions. 	mTOR Inhibition Suppresses Salinomycin-Induced Ferroptosis in Breast Cancer Stem Cells by Ironing Out Mitochondrial Dysfunctions	Breast Cancer Stem Cells, Ferroptosis, Iron Homeostasis, Metabolic Reprogramming, Mitochondria, mTOR Pathway	Ferroptosis constitutes a promising therapeutic strategy against cancer by efficiently targeting the highly tumorigenic and treatment-resistant cancer stem cells (CSCs). We previously showed that the lysosomal iron-targeting drug Salinomycin (Sal) was able to eliminate CSCs by triggering ferroptosis. Here, in a well-established breast CSCs model (human mammary epithelial HMLER CD24(low)/CD44(high)), we identified that pharmacological inhibition of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR), suppresses Sal-induced ferroptosis. Mechanistically, mTOR inhibition modulates iron cellular flux and thereby limits iron-mediated oxidative stress. Furthermore, integration of multi-omics data identified mitochondria as a key target of Sal action, leading to profound functional and structural alteration prevented by mTOR inhibition. On top of that, we found that Sal-induced metabolic plasticity is mainly dependent on the mTOR pathway. Overall, our findings provide experimental evidence for the mechanisms of mTOR as a crucial effector of Sal-induced ferroptosis pointing not only that metabolic reprogramming regulates ferroptosis, but also providing proof-of-concept that careful evaluation of such combination therapy (here mTOR and ferroptosis co-targeting) is required in the development of an effective treatment.
PXD031940	37968396	The social and structural architecture of the yeast protein interactome. 	The social and structural architecture of the yeast protein interactome	AE-MS, AP-MS, PASEF, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, interactome, pull-downs, quantitative interactomics, timsTOF Pro	Cellular functions are mediated by protein-protein interactions, and mapping the interactome provides fundamental insights into biological systems. Affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry is an ideal tool for such mapping, but it has been difficult to identify low copy number complexes, membrane complexes and complexes that are disrupted by protein tagging. As a result, our current knowledge of the interactome is far from complete, and assessing the reliability of reported interactions is challenging. Here we develop a sensitive high-throughput method using highly reproducible affinity enrichment coupled to mass spectrometry combined with a quantitative two-dimensional analysis strategy to comprehensively map the interactome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Thousand-fold reduced volumes in 96-well format enabled replicate analysis of the endogenous GFP-tagged library covering the entire expressed yeast proteome(1). The 4,159 pull-downs generated a highly structured network of 3,927 proteins connected by 31,004 interactions, doubling the number of proteins and tripling the number of reliable interactions compared with existing interactome maps(2). This includes very-low-abundance epigenetic complexes, organellar membrane complexes and non-taggable complexes inferred by abundance correlation. This nearly saturated interactome reveals that the vast majority of yeast proteins are highly connected, with an average of 16 interactors. Similar to social networks between humans, the average shortest distance between proteins is 4.2 interactions. AlphaFold-Multimer provided novel insights into the functional roles of previously uncharacterized proteins in complexes. Our web portal ( www.yeast-interactome.org ) enables extensive exploration of the interactome dataset.
PXD041644	37968399	The extracellular matrix dictates regional competence for tumour initiation. 	ECM composition dictates the mode of cell competition and competence for tumor initiation	BCC, Cell competition, ECM, Live imaging, tumor initiation	The skin epidermis is constantly renewed throughout life(1,2). Disruption of the balance between renewal and differentiation can lead to uncontrolled growth and tumour initiation(3). However, the ways in which oncogenic mutations affect the balance between renewal and differentiation and lead to clonal expansion, cell competition, tissue colonization and tumour development are unknown. Here, through multidisciplinary approaches that combine in vivo clonal analysis using intravital microscopy, single-cell analysis and functional analysis, we show how SmoM2-a constitutively active oncogenic mutant version of Smoothened (SMO) that induces the development of basal cell carcinoma-affects clonal competition and tumour initiation in real time. We found that expressing SmoM2 in the ear epidermis of mice induced clonal expansion together with tumour initiation and invasion. By contrast, expressing SmoM2 in the back-skin epidermis led to a clonal expansion that induced lateral cell competition without dermal invasion and tumour formation. Single-cell analysis showed that oncogene expression was associated with a cellular reprogramming of adult interfollicular cells into an embryonic hair follicle progenitor (EHFP) state in the ear but not in the back skin. Comparisons between the ear and the back skin revealed that the dermis has a very different composition in these two skin types, with increased stiffness and a denser collagen I network in the back skin. Decreasing the expression of collagen I in the back skin through treatment with collagenase, chronic UV exposure or natural ageing overcame the natural resistance of back-skin basal cells to undergoing EHFP reprogramming and tumour initiation after SmoM2 expression. Altogether, our study shows that the composition of the extracellular matrix regulates how susceptible different regions of the body are to tumour initiation and invasion.
PXD040856	37968584	Comparison of in-gel and in-solution proteolysis in the proteome profiling of organ perfusion solutions. 	Comparison of gel and urea methods of digestion for proteomic analysis of organ perfusion solutions	Perfusate, kidney, liver, organ transplantation	PURPOSE: The organ perfusion solution (perfusate), collected at clinically and temporally significant stages of the organ preservation and transplantation process, provides a valuable insight into the biological status of an organ over time and prior to reperfusion (transplantation) in the recipient. The objective of this study was to assess two bottom-up proteomics workflows for the extraction of tryptic peptides from the perfusate. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Two different kinds of perfusate samples from kidney and liver trials were profiled using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The preparation of clean peptide mixtures for downstream analysis was performed considering different aspects of sample preparation; protein estimation, enrichment, in-gel and urea-based in-solution digestion. RESULTS: In-solution digestion of perfusate allowed identification of the highest number of peptides and proteins with greater sequence coverage and higher confidence data in kidney and liver perfusate. Key pathways identified by gene ontology analysis included complement, coagulation and antioxidant pathways, and a number of biomarkers previously linked to ischemia-reperfusion injury were also observed in perfusate. CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that in-solution digestion is a more efficient method for LC-MS/MS analysis of kidney and liver organ perfusion solutions. This method is also quicker and easier than in-gel digestion, allowing for greater sample throughput, with fewer opportunities for experimental error or peptide loss.
PXD042312	37969261	Proteomic sequencing analysis in a rat model of atrial fibrosis caused by chronic intermittent hypoxia. 	Proteomic sequencing of atrial fibrosis rat model caused by chronic intermittent hypoxia	atrial fibrillation, atrial fibrosis, pathway, protein	Background: Atrial fibrosis caused by long-term atrial fibrillation influences the outcomes of clinical treatment. An improved understanding of the mechanisms underlying atrial fibrillation may reveal new therapeutic targets. This study was conducted to analyze the changes in protein levels in the atrial tissue of a rat model of atrial fibrillation based on proteome sequencing. Methods: Sprague-Dawley rats were used to develop a model of atrial fibrillation induced by chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH). Histopathological changes were detected using hematoxylin and eosin staining and Masson's staining, and immunohistochemistry and western blotting for the levels of fibrosis biomarkers. Atrial fibrosis tissue samples were also evaluated by proteome sequencing. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between the CIH and control groups were evaluated in functional assay. The expression levels of several key proteins were validated using western blotting. Results: CIH resulted in atrial fibrosis and induced atrial fibrillation. We identified 145 DEPs between the CIH and control groups. These included Myh7, Myl2, Myl3, and Atpla3, which are involved in signaling pathways related to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, glycerolipid metabolism, and cardiac muscle contraction. Western blotting revealed the upregulation of Myh7, Myl2, and Myl3 and the downregulation of Atpla3 in the CIH group compared with the control group. These results were consistent with the sequencing results. Conclusions: Myh7, Myl2, Myl3, and Atpla3 may play key roles in the progression of atrial fibrillation through their involvement in cardiovascular-disease-related signaling pathways.
PXD034795	37969874	The Association of Biomolecular Resource Facilities Proteome Informatics Research Group Study on Metaproteomics (iPRG-2020). 	ABRF iPRG2020 Metaproteomics Study Data	ABRF, bacteria, bacteriophage, iPRG, iPRG2020, metaproteomics, phage	Metaproteomics research using mass spectrometry data has emerged as a powerful strategy to understand the mechanisms underlying microbiome dynamics and the interaction of microbiomes with their immediate environment. Recent advances in sample preparation, data acquisition, and bioinformatics workflows have greatly contributed to progress in this field. In 2020, the Association of Biomolecular Research Facilities Proteome Informatics Research Group launched a collaborative study to assess the bioinformatics options available for metaproteomics research. The study was conducted in 2 phases. In the first phase, participants were provided with mass spectrometry data files and were asked to identify the taxonomic composition and relative taxa abundances in the samples without supplying any protein sequence databases. The most challenging question asked of the participants was to postulate the nature of any biological phenomena that may have taken place in the samples, such as interactions among taxonomic species. In the second phase, participants were provided a protein sequence database composed of the species present in the sample and were asked to answer the same set of questions as for phase 1. In this report, we summarize the data processing methods and tools used by participants, including database searching and software tools used for taxonomic and functional analysis. This study provides insights into the status of metaproteomics bioinformatics in participating laboratories and core facilities.
PXD046003	37970674	SUMOylation regulates Lem2 function in centromere clustering and silencing. 	SUMOylation regulates Lem2 function in centromere clustering and silencing.	Lem2, SUMOylation, centromere, fission yeast, ubiquitination	Regulation by the small modifier SUMO is heavily dependent on spatial control of enzymes that mediate the attachment and removal of SUMO on substrate proteins. Here, we show that in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, delocalisation of the SUMO protease Ulp1 from the nuclear envelope results in centromeric defects that can be attributed to hyper-SUMOylation at the nuclear periphery. Unexpectedly, we find that although this localised hyper-SUMOylation impairs centromeric silencing, it can also enhance centromere clustering. Moreover, both effects are at least partially dependent on SUMOylation of the inner nuclear membrane protein Lem2. Lem2 has previously been implicated in diverse biological processes, including the promotion of both centromere clustering and silencing, but how these distinct activities are coordinated was unclear; our observations suggest a model whereby SUMOylation serves as a regulatory switch, modulating Lem2 interactions with competing partner proteins to balance its roles in alternative pathways. Our findings also reveal a previously unappreciated role for SUMOylation in promoting centromere clustering.
PXD044931	37971644	TIPRL1 and its ATM-dependent phosphorylation promote radiotherapy resistance in head and neck cancer. 	TIPRL1 and its ATM-dependent phosphorylation modulate the DNA Damage Response to promote radiotherapy resistance in head and neck cancer	Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated (ATM) kinase/ DNA Damage Response (DDR)/ Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC)/ radioresistance/ target of rapamycin signaling pathway regulator-like 1 (TIPRL1)	PURPOSE: TIPRL1 (target of rapamycin signaling pathway regulator-like 1) is a known interactor and inhibitor of protein phosphatases PP2A, PP4 and PP6 - all pleiotropic modulators of the DNA Damage Response (DDR). Here, we investigated the role of TIPRL1 in the radiotherapy (RT) response of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC). METHODS: TIPRL1 mRNA (cBioportal) and protein expression (immunohistochemistry) in HNSCC samples were linked with clinical patient data. TIPRL1-depleted HNSCC cells were generated by CRISPR/Cas9 editing, and effects on colony growth, micronuclei formation (microscopy), cell cycle (flow cytometry), DDR signaling (immunoblots) and proteome (mass spectrometry) following RT were assessed. Mass spectrometry was used for TIPRL1 phosphorylation and interactomics analysis in irradiated cells. RESULTS: TIPRL1 expression was increased in tumor versus non-tumor tissue, with high tumoral TIPRL1 expression associating with lower locoregional control and decreased survival of RT-treated patients. TIPRL1 deletion in HNSCC cells resulted in increased RT sensitivity, a faster but prolonged cell cycle arrest, increased micronuclei formation and an altered proteome-wide DDR. Upon irradiation, ATM phosphorylates TIPRL1 at Ser265. A non-phospho Ser265Ala mutant could not rescue the increased radiosensitivity phenotype of TIPRL1-depleted cells. While binding to PP2A-like phosphatases was confirmed, DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PKcs), RAD51 recombinase and nucleosomal histones were identified as novel TIPRL1 interactors. Histone binding, although stimulated by RT, was adversely affected by TIPRL1 Ser265 phosphorylation. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings underscore a clinically relevant role for TIPRL1 and its ATM-dependent phosphorylation in RT resistance through modulation of the DDR, highlighting its potential as a new HNSCC predictive marker and therapeutic target.
PXD046435	37971787	Dimethylthiourea as a Quencher in Hydroxyl Radical Protein Footprinting Experiments. 	Dimethylthiourea as a Quencher in Hydroxyl Radical Protein Footprinting Experiments	Dimethylthiourea, HRPF, quencher	Hydroxyl radical protein footprinting (HRPF) is a mass-spectrometry-based method for studying protein structures, interactions, conformations, and folding. This method is based on the irreversible labeling of solvent-exposed amino acid side chains by hydroxyl radicals. While catalase is commonly used as a quencher after the labeling of a protein by the hydroxyl radicals to efficiently remove the remaining hydrogen peroxide, it has some disadvantages. Catalase quenching adds a relatively high amount of protein to the sample, limiting the sensitivity of the method due to dynamic range issues and causing significant issues when dealing with more complex samples. We evaluated dimethylthiourea (DMTU) as a replacement for catalase in the quenching HRPF reactions. We observed that DMTU is highly effective at quenching HRPF oxidation. DMTU does not cause the background protein issues that catalase does, resulting in an increased number of protein identifications from complex mixtures. We recommend the replacement of catalase quenching with DMTU for all HRPF experiments.
PXD033564	37971880	Disruption of CFAP418 interaction with lipids causes widespread abnormal membrane-associated cellular processes in retinal degenerations. 	Label-free semi-quantitative proteome profiling of retinas at P5 of Wild type and Cfap418-/- mice	Retina	Syndromic ciliopathies and retinal degenerations are large heterogeneous groups of genetic diseases. Pathogenic variants in the CFAP418 gene may cause both disorders, and its protein sequence is evolutionarily conserved. However, the disease mechanism underlying CFAP418 mutations has not been explored. Here, we apply quantitative lipidomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic profiling and affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry to address the molecular function of CFAP418 in retinas. We show that CFAP418 protein binds to lipid metabolism precursor phosphatidic acid (PA) and mitochondrion-specific lipid cardiolipin but does not form a tight and static complex with proteins. Loss of Cfap418 in mice disturbs membrane lipid homeostasis and membrane-protein association, which subsequently causes mitochondrial defects and membrane remodeling abnormalities across multiple vesicular trafficking pathways in photoreceptors, especially the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) pathway. Ablation of Cfap418 also increases the activity of PA-binding protein kinase Calpha in the retina. Overall, our results indicate that membrane lipid imbalance is a pathological mechanism underlying syndromic ciliopathies and retinal degenerations, which is associated with other known causative genes of these diseases.
PXD033358	37974198	Epigenetic-focused CRISPR/Cas9 screen identifies (absent, small, or homeotic)2-like protein (ASH2L) as a regulator of glioblastoma cell survival. 	Epigenetic-focused CRISPR-Cas9 screen identifies ASH2L as a regulator of Glioblastoma cell survival	ASH2L, CRISPER-CAS9, Glioblastoma	BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma is the most common and aggressive primary brain tumor with extremely poor prognosis, highlighting an urgent need for developing novel treatment options. Identifying epigenetic vulnerabilities of cancer cells can provide excellent therapeutic intervention points for various types of cancers. METHOD: In this study, we investigated epigenetic regulators of glioblastoma cell survival through CRISPR/Cas9 based genetic ablation screens using a customized sgRNA library EpiDoKOL, which targets critical functional domains of chromatin modifiers. RESULTS: Screens conducted in multiple cell lines revealed ASH2L, a histone lysine methyltransferase complex subunit, as a major regulator of glioblastoma cell viability. ASH2L depletion led to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. RNA sequencing and greenCUT&RUN together identified a set of cell cycle regulatory genes, such as TRA2B, BARD1, KIF20B, ARID4A and SMARCC1 that were downregulated upon ASH2L depletion. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed the interaction partners of ASH2L in glioblastoma cell lines as SET1/MLL family members including SETD1A, SETD1B, MLL1 and MLL2. We further showed that glioblastoma cells had a differential dependency on expression of SET1/MLL family members for survival. The growth of ASH2L-depleted glioblastoma cells was markedly slower than controls in orthotopic in vivo models. TCGA analysis showed high ASH2L expression in glioblastoma compared to low grade gliomas and immunohistochemical analysis revealed significant ASH2L expression in glioblastoma tissues, attesting to its clinical relevance. Therefore, high throughput, robust and affordable screens with focused libraries, such as EpiDoKOL, holds great promise to enable rapid discovery of novel epigenetic regulators of cancer cell survival, such as ASH2L. CONCLUSION: Together, we suggest that targeting ASH2L could serve as a new therapeutic opportunity for glioblastoma. Video Abstract.
PXD045907	37976471	Comparative Proteomics Reveals Prolonged Corneal Preservation Impaired Ocular Surface Immunity Accompanied by Fibrosis in Human Stroma. 	Comparative Proteomics Reveals Prolonged Corneal Preservation Impaired Ocular Surface Immunity Accompanied with Fibrosis in Human Stroma	LC-MS/MS analysis, corneal stroma, corneal transplantation, fibrosis, ocular sur-face immunity	Cornea transplantation is one of the most commonly performed allotransplantations worldwide. Prolonged storage of donor corneas leads to decreased endothelial cell viability, severe stromal edema, and opacification, significantly compromising the success rate of corneal transplantation. Corneal stroma, which constitutes the majority of the cornea, plays a crucial role in maintaining its shape and transparency. In this study, we conducted proteomic analysis of corneal stroma preserved in Optisol-GS medium at 4 degreesC for 7 or 14 days to investigate molecular changes during storage. Among 1923 identified proteins, 1634 were quantifiable and 387 were significantly regulated with longer preservation. Compared to stroma preserved for 7 days, proteins involved in ocular surface immunomodulation were largely downregulated while proteins associated with extracellular matrix reorganization and fibrosis were upregulated in those preserved for 14 days. The increase in extracellular matrix structural proteins together with upregulation of growth factor signaling implies the occurrence of stromal fibrosis, which may compromise tissue clarity and cause vision impairments. This study is the first to provide insights into how storage duration affects corneal stroma from a proteomic perspective. Our findings may contribute to future research efforts aimed at developing long-term preservation techniques and improving the quality of preserved corneas, thus maximizing their clinical application.
PXD034934	37977116	Genome homeostasis defects drive enlarged cells into senescence. 	Investigating proteome remodeling as a function of mammalian cell size	TMT, cell size	Cellular senescence refers to an irreversible state of cell-cycle arrest and plays important roles in aging and cancer biology. Because senescence is associated with increased cell size, we used reversible cell-cycle arrests combined with growth rate modulation to study how excessive growth affects proliferation. We find that enlarged cells upregulate p21, which limits cell-cycle progression. Cells that re-enter the cell cycle encounter replication stress that is well tolerated in physiologically sized cells but causes severe DNA damage in enlarged cells, ultimately resulting in mitotic failure and permanent cell-cycle withdrawal. We demonstrate that enlarged cells fail to recruit 53BP1 and other non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) machinery to DNA damage sites and fail to robustly initiate DNA damage-dependent p53 signaling, rendering them highly sensitive to genotoxic stress. We propose that an impaired DNA damage response primes enlarged cells for persistent replication-acquired damage, ultimately leading to cell division failure and permanent cell-cycle exit.
PXD036519	37977118	CDK4/6 inhibitor-mediated cell overgrowth triggers osmotic and replication stress to promote senescence. 	CDK4/6 inhibitor-mediated cell overgrowth triggers an osmotic stress response	DIA, cell cycle, cell growth	Abnormal increases in cell size are associated with senescence and cell cycle exit. The mechanisms by which overgrowth primes cells to withdraw from the cell cycle remain unknown. We address this question using CDK4/6 inhibitors, which arrest cells in G0/G1 and are licensed to treat advanced HR+/HER2- breast cancer. We demonstrate that CDK4/6-inhibited cells overgrow during G0/G1, causing p38/p53/p21-dependent cell cycle withdrawal. Cell cycle withdrawal is triggered by biphasic p21 induction. The first p21 wave is caused by osmotic stress, leading to p38- and size-dependent accumulation of p21. CDK4/6 inhibitor washout results in some cells entering S-phase. Overgrown cells experience replication stress, resulting in a second p21 wave that promotes cell cycle withdrawal from G2 or the subsequent G1. We propose that the levels of p21 integrate signals from overgrowth-triggered stresses to determine cell fate. This model explains how hypertrophy can drive senescence and why CDK4/6 inhibitors have long-lasting effects in patients.
PXD046300	37977141	Reversible phosphorylation of a lectin-receptor-like kinase controls xylem immunity. 	Reversible phosphorylation of a lectin receptor-like kinase controls xylem immunity	Ralstonia solanacearum, lectin receptor-like kinase, reactive oxygen species, reversible phosphorylation, xylem immunity	Pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs) mediate basal resistance to most phytopathogens. However, plant responses can be cell type specific, and the mechanisms governing xylem immunity remain largely unknown. We show that the lectin-receptor-like kinase LORE contributes to xylem basal resistance in Arabidopsis upon infection with Ralstonia solanacearum, a destructive plant pathogen that colonizes the xylem to cause bacterial wilt. Following R. solanacearum infection, LORE is activated by phosphorylation at residue S761, initiating a phosphorelay that activates reactive oxygen species production and cell wall lignification. To prevent prolonged activation of immune signaling, LORE recruits and phosphorylates type 2C protein phosphatase LOPP, which dephosphorylates LORE and attenuates LORE-mediated xylem immunity to maintain immune homeostasis. A LOPP knockout confers resistance against bacterial wilt disease in Arabidopsis and tomatoes without impacting plant growth. Thus, our study reveals a regulatory mechanism in xylem immunity involving the reversible phosphorylation of receptor-like kinases.
PXD046363	37978291	Simultaneous selection of nanobodies for accessible epitopes on immune cells in the tumor microenvironment. 	Simultaneous selection of nanobodies for immune epitopes in the complex tumor microenvironment	immune cells, nanobodies, phage	In the rapidly advancing field of synthetic biology, there exists a critical need for technology to discover targeting moieties for therapeutic biologics. Here we present INSPIRE-seq, an approach that utilizes a nanobody library and next-generation sequencing to identify nanobodies selected for complex environments. INSPIRE-seq enables the parallel enrichment of immune cell-binding nanobodies that penetrate the tumor microenvironment. Clone enrichment and specificity vary across immune cell subtypes in the tumor, lymph node, and spleen. INSPIRE-seq identifies a dendritic cell binding clone that binds PHB2. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals a connection with cDC1s, and immunofluorescence confirms nanobody-PHB2 colocalization along cell membranes. Structural modeling and docking studies assist binding predictions and will guide nanobody selection. In this work, we demonstrate that INSPIRE-seq offers an unbiased approach to examine complex microenvironments and assist in the development of nanobodies, which could serve as active drugs, modified to become drugs, or used as targeting moieties.
PXD044623	37979582	ABLs and TMKs are co-receptors for extracellular auxin. 	ABLs and TMKs are co-receptors for extracellular auxin	auxin receptor	Extracellular perception of auxin, an essential phytohormone in plants, has been debated for decades. Auxin-binding protein 1 (ABP1) physically interacts with quintessential transmembrane kinases (TMKs) and was proposed to act as an extracellular auxin receptor, but its role was disputed because abp1 knockout mutants lack obvious morphological phenotypes. Here, we identified two new auxin-binding proteins, ABL1 and ABL2, that are localized to the apoplast and directly interact with the extracellular domain of TMKs in an auxin-dependent manner. Furthermore, functionally redundant ABL1 and ABL2 genetically interact with TMKs and exhibit functions that overlap with those of ABP1 as well as being independent of ABP1. Importantly, the extracellular domain of TMK1 itself binds auxin and synergizes with either ABP1 or ABL1 in auxin binding. Thus, our findings discovered auxin receptors ABL1 and ABL2 having functions overlapping with but distinct from ABP1 and acting together with TMKs as co-receptors for extracellular auxin.
PXD044750	37979917	Mapping interactions of calmodulin and neuronal NO synthase by crosslinking and mass spectrometry. 	Mapping Interactions of Calmodulin and nNOS by CXL-MS	CXL-MS, crosslinking, neuronal nitric oxide synthase	Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is a homodimeric cytochrome P450-like enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of L-arginine to nitric oxide in the presence of NADPH and molecular oxygen. The binding of calmodulin (CaM) to a linker region between the FAD/FMN-containing reductase domain, and the heme-containing oxygenase domain is needed for electron transfer reactions, reduction of the heme, and NO synthesis. Due to the dynamic nature of the reductase domain and low resolution of available full-length structures, the exact conformation of the CaM-bound active complex during heme reduction is still unresolved. Interestingly, hydrogen-deuterium exchange and mass spectrometry studies revealed interactions of the FMN domain and CaM with the oxygenase domain for iNOS, but not nNOS. This finding prompted us to utilize covalent crosslinking and mass spectrometry to clarify interactions of CaM with nNOS. Specifically, MS-cleavable bifunctional crosslinker disuccinimidyl dibutyric urea was used to identify thirteen unique crosslinks between CaM and nNOS as well as 61 crosslinks within the nNOS. The crosslinks provided evidence for CaM interaction with the oxygenase and reductase domain residues as well as interactions of the FMN domain with the oxygenase dimer. Cryo-EM studies, which gave a high-resolution model of the oxygenase domain, along with crosslink-guided docking provided a model of nNOS that brings the FMN within 15 Aa of the heme in support for a more compact conformation than previously observed. These studies also point to the utility of covalent crosslinking and mass spectrometry in capturing transient dynamic conformations that may not be captured by hydrogen-deuterium exchange and mass spectrometry experiments.
PXD046099	37981008	Proteomic investigation reveals the role of bacterial laccase from Bacillus pumilus in oxidative stress defense. 	Proteomic investigation reveals the role of bacterial laccase from Bacillus pumilus in the oxidative stress defense	Bacillus pumilus, laccase, oxidative stress, stress defense	The wide distribution of laccases in nature makes them involved in different biological processes. However, little information is known about how laccase participates in the defense machinery of bacteria against oxidative stress. The present study aimed to elucidate the oxidative stress response mechanism of Bacillus pumilus ZB1 and the functional role of bacterial laccase in stress defense. The oxidative stress caused by methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) significantly induced laccase activity and its transcript level. The morphological analysis revealed that the defense of B. pumilus ZB1 against oxidative stress was activated. Based on the proteomic study, 114 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were up-regulated and 79 DEPs were down-regulated. In COG analysis, 66.40% DEPs were classified into the category "Metabolism". We confirmed that laccase was up-regulated in response to MMS stress and its functional annotation was related to "Secondary metabolites biosynthesis, transport and catabolism". Based on protein-protein interaction prediction, two up-regulated DEPs (YcnJ and GabP) showed interaction with laccase and contributed to the formation of laccase stability and adaptability. The overexpressed laccase might improve the antioxidative property of B. pumilus ZB1. These findings provide an insight and the guidelines for better exploitation of bioremediation using bacterial laccase. SIGNIFICANCE: Bacillus pumilus is a gram-positive bacterium that has the potential for many applications, such as bioremediation. The expression of bacterial laccase is significantly influenced by oxidative stress, while the underlying mechanism of laccase overexpression in bacteria has not been fully studied. Elucidation of the biological process may benefit the bioremediation using bacteria in the future. In this study, the differentially expressed proteins were analyzed using a TMT-labeling proteomic approach when B. pumilus was treated with methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). Reactive oxygen species induced by MMS activated the secondary metabolites biosynthesis, transport, and catabolism in B. pumilus, including laccase overexpression. Moreover, the simultaneously up-regulated YcnJ and GabP may benefit the synthesis and the stability of laccase, then improve the antioxidative property of B. pumilus against environmental stress. Our findings advance the understanding of the adaptive mechanism of B. pumilus to environmental conditions.
PXD042498	37981907	Ergolide mediates anti-cancer effects on metastatic uveal melanoma cells and modulates their cellular and extracellular vesicle proteomes. 	Total Proteome: Ergolide Mediates Anti-Cancer Effects on Metastatic Uveal Melanoma Cells and Modulates their Cell Lysate and Extracellular Vesicle proteomes.	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Erglotide, Human Proteome Project, Melanoma, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Q Exactive	Background: Uveal melanoma is a poor prognosis cancer. Ergolide, a sesquiterpene lactone isolated from Inula Brittanica, exerts anti-cancer properties. The objective of this study was to 1) evaluate whether ergolide reduced metastatic uveal melanoma (MUM) cell survival/viability in vitro and in vivo; and 2) to understand the molecular mechanism of ergolide action. Methods: Ergolide bioactivity was screened via long-term proliferation assay in UM/MUM cells and in zebrafish MUM xenograft models. Mass spectrometry profiled proteins modulated by ergolide within whole cell or extracellular vesicle (EVs) lysates of the OMM2.5 MUM cell line. Protein expression was analyzed by immunoblots and correlation analyses to UM patient survival used The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. Results: Ergolide treatment resulted in significant, dose-dependent reductions (48.5 to 99.9%; p<0.0001) in OMM2.5 cell survival in vitro and of normalized primary zebrafish xenograft fluorescence (56%; p<0.0001) in vivo, compared to vehicle controls. Proteome-profiling of ergolide-treated OMM2.5 cells, identified 5023 proteins, with 52 and 55 proteins significantly altered at 4 and 24 hours, respectively ( p<0.05; fold-change >1.2). Immunoblotting of heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1) and growth/differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) corroborated the proteomic data. Additional proteomics of EVs isolated from OMM2.5 cells treated with ergolide, detected 2931 proteins. There was a large overlap with EV proteins annotated within the Vesiclepedia compendium. Within the differentially expressed proteins, the proteasomal pathway was primarily altered. Interestingly, BRCA2 and CDKN1A Interacting Protein (BCCIP) and Chitinase Domain Containing 1 (CHID1), were the only proteins significantly differentially expressed by ergolide in both the OMM2.5 cellular and EV isolates and they displayed inverse differential expression in the cells versus the EVs. Conclusions: Ergolide is a novel, promising anti-proliferative agent for UM/MUM. Proteomic profiling of OMM2.5 cellular/EV lysates identified candidate pathways elucidating the action of ergolide and putative biomarkers of UM, that require further examination.
PXD047435	37982431	Identification of distinct active pools of yeast serine palmitoyltransferase in sub-compartments of the ER. 	Identification of distinct active pools of yeast serine palmitoyltransferase in sub-compartments of the ER.	Sphingolipids, serine palmitoyltransferase	Sphingolipids (SP) are one of the three major lipid classes in eukaryotic cells and serve as structural components of the plasma membrane. The rate-limiting step in SP biosynthesis is catalyzed by the serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT). In yeast, SPT is negatively regulated by the two proteins, Orm1 and Orm2. Regulating SPT activity enables cells to adapt SP metabolism to changing environmental conditions. Therefore, the Orm proteins are phosphorylated by two signaling pathways originating from either the plasma membrane or the lysosome/vacuole. Moreover, uptake of exogenous serine is necessary for the regulation of SP biosynthesis, which suggests the existence of differentially regulated SPT pools based on their intracellular localization. However, measuring lipid metabolic enzyme activity in different cellular sub-compartments has been challenging. Combining a nanobody recruitment approach with sphingolipid flux analysis, we show that the nuclear ER localized SPT and the peripheral ER localized SPT pools are differentially active. Thus, our data add another layer to the complex network of SPT regulation. Moreover, combining lipid metabolic enzyme re-localization with flux analysis serves as versatile tool to measure lipid metabolism with sub-cellular resolution.
PXD038899	37982752	Snapper: high-sensitive detection of methylation motifs based on Oxford Nanopore reads. 	Snapper: a high-sensitive algorithm to detect methylation motifs based on Oxford Nanopore reads	Helicobacter pylori, methylation, strain	MOTIVATION: The Oxford Nanopore technology has a great potential for the analysis of methylated motifs in genomes, including whole-genome methylome profiling. However, we found that there are no methylation motifs detection algorithms, which would be sensitive enough and return deterministic results. Thus, the MEME suit does not extract all Helicobacter pylori methylation sites de novo even using the iterative approach implemented in the most up-to-date methylation analysis tool Nanodisco. RESULTS: We present Snapper, a new highly sensitive approach, to extract methylation motif sequences based on a greedy motif selection algorithm. Snapper does not require manual control during the enrichment process and has enrichment sensitivity higher than MEME coupled with Tombo or Nanodisco instruments that was demonstrated on H.pylori strain J99 studied earlier by the PacBio technology and on four external datasets representing different bacterial species. We used Snapper to characterize the total methylome of a new H.pylori strain A45. At least four methylation sites that have not been described for H.pylori earlier were revealed. We experimentally confirmed the presence of a new CCAG-specific methyltransferase and inferred a gene encoding a new CCAAK-specific methyltransferase. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: Snapper is implemented using Python and is freely available as a pip package named "snapper-ont." Also, Snapper and the demo dataset are available in Zenodo (10.5281/zenodo.10117651).
PXD030544	37985661	A single pseudouridine on rRNA regulates ribosome structure and function in the mammalian parasite Trypanosoma brucei. 	Role of H/ACA snoRNA in translation	RNA modification, Trypanosome, pseudouridine, quantitative proteomics, snoRNA	Trypanosomes are protozoan parasites that cycle between insect and mammalian hosts and are the causative agent of sleeping sickness. Here, we describe the changes of pseudouridine (Psi) modification on rRNA in the two life stages of the parasite using four different genome-wide approaches. CRISPR-Cas9 knock-outs of all four snoRNAs guiding Psi on helix 69 (H69) of the large rRNA subunit were lethal. A single knock-out of a snoRNA guiding Psi530 on H69 altered the composition of the 80S monosome. These changes specifically affected the translation of only a subset of proteins. This study correlates a single site Psi modification with changes in ribosomal protein stoichiometry, supported by a high-resolution cryo-EM structure. We propose that alteration in rRNA modifications could generate ribosomes preferentially translating state-beneficial proteins.
PXD044778	37985711	Single-cell and spatial architecture of primary liver cancer. 	Single-cell and Spatial Architecture of Primary Liver Cancer	Primary liver cancer, combined hepatocellular-cholangiocarcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, multi-omics, single-cell RNA-Seq, spatial transcriptomics	Primary liver cancer (PLC) poses a leading threat to human health, and its treatment options are limited. Meanwhile, the investigation of homogeneity and heterogeneity among PLCs remains challenging. Here, using single-cell RNA sequencing, spatial transcriptomic and bulk multi-omics, we elaborated a molecular architecture of 3 PLC types, namely hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) and combined hepatocellular-cholangiocarcinoma (CHC). Taking a high-resolution perspective, our observations revealed that CHC cells exhibit internally discordant phenotypes, whereas ICC and HCC exhibit distinct tumor-specific features. Specifically, ICC was found to be the primary source of cancer-associated fibroblasts, while HCC exhibited disrupted metabolism and greater individual heterogeneity of T cells. We further revealed a diversity of intermediate-state cells residing in the tumor-peritumor junctional zone, including a congregation of CPE(+) intermediate-state endothelial cells (ECs), which harbored the molecular characteristics of tumor-associated ECs and normal ECs. This architecture offers insights into molecular characteristics of PLC microenvironment, and hints that the tumor-peritumor junctional zone could serve as a targeted region for precise therapeutical strategies.
PXD046783	37986787	APC/C prevents non-canonical order of cyclin/CDK activity to maintain CDK4/6 inhibitor-induced arrest. 	Proteomic profiling of Palbociclib arrested cells  APC/C inactivation.	APC/C, Palbociclib, cancer, cell cycle	Regulated cell cycle progression ensures homeostasis and prevents cancer. In proliferating cells, premature S phase entry is avoided by the E3 ubiquitin ligase APC/C (anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome), although the APC/C substrates whose degradation restrains G1-S progression are not fully known. The APC/C is also active in arrested cells that exited the cell cycle, but it is not clear if APC/C maintains all types of arrest. Here by expressing the APC/C inhibitor, EMI1, we show that APC/C activity is essential to prevent S phase entry in cells arrested by pharmacological CDK4/6 inhibition (Palbociclib). Thus, active protein degradation is required for arrest alongside repressed cell cycle gene expression. The mechanism of rapid and robust arrest bypass from inhibiting APC/C involves cyclin-dependent kinases acting in an atypical order to inactivate RB-mediated E2F repression. Inactivating APC/C first causes mitotic cyclin B accumulation which then promotes cyclin A expression. We propose that cyclin A is the key substrate for maintaining arrest because APC/C-resistant cyclin A, but not cyclin B, is sufficient to induce S phase entry. Cells bypassing arrest from CDK4/6 inhibition initiate DNA replication with severely reduced origin licensing. The simultaneous accumulation of S phase licensing inhibitors, such as cyclin A and geminin, with G1 licensing activators disrupts the normal order of G1-S progression. As a result, DNA synthesis and cell proliferation are profoundly impaired. Our findings predict that cancers with elevated EMI1 expression will tend to escape CDK4/6 inhibition into a premature, underlicensed S phase and suffer enhanced genome instability.
PXD054696	37986959	Covalent 14-3-3 Molecular Glues and Heterobifunctional Molecules Against Nuclear Transcription Factors and Regulators. 	Targeted Protein Localization by Covalent 14-3-3 Recruitment	14-3-3	14-3-3 proteins have the unique ability to bind and sequester a multitude of diverse phosphorylated signaling proteins and transcription factors. Many previous studies have shown that 14-3-3 interactions with specific phosphorylated substrate proteins can be enhanced through small-molecule natural product or fully synthetic molecular glue interactions. However, enhancing 14-3-3 interactions with both therapeutically intractable transcription factor substrates as well as potential neo-substrates to sequester and inhibit their function has remained elusive. One of the 14-3-3 proteins, 14-3-3sigma or SFN, has a cysteine C38 at the substrate binding interface near sites where previous 14-3-3 molecular glues have been found to bind. In this study, we screened a fully synthetic cysteine-reactive covalent ligand library to identify molecular glues that enhance interaction of 14-3-3sigma with not only druggable transcription factors such as estrogen receptor (ERalpha), but also challenging oncogenic transcription factors such as YAP and TAZ that are part of the Hippo transducer pathway. We identified a hit EN171 that covalently targets 14-3-3 to enhance 14-3-3 interactions with ERalpha, YAP, and TAZ leading to impaired estrogen receptor and Hippo pathway transcriptional activity. We further demonstrate that EN171 could not only be used as a molecular glue to enhance native protein interactions, but also could be used as a covalent 14-3-3 recruiter in heterobifunctional molecules to sequester nuclear neo-substrates such as BRD4 into the cytosol. Overall, our study reveals a covalent ligand that acts as a novel 14-3-3 molecular glue for challenging transcription factors such as YAP and TAZ and also demonstrates that these glues can be potentially utilized in heterobifunctional molecules to sequester nuclear neo-substrates out of the nucleus and into the cytosol to enable targeted protein localization.
PXD047381	37986967	Synapses are uniquely vulnerable to sleep loss during brain development while maturation confers resilience. 	The synaptic proteome and phosphoproteome is uniquely vulnerable to sleep loss during brain development while maturation confers resilience	Brain development, Sleep, Sleep deprivation, Synapses	Sleep supports lifelong brain health and cognition. Sleep loss in early life can drive lasting changes in adult behavior, indicating sleep plays a distinct but poorly understood role in brain development. We systematically examined the homeostatic adaptations and synaptic consequences of acute sleep deprivation (SD) in developing and adult mice. Developing mice lack robust homeostatic adaptations to SD, exacerbating cognitive deficits. Synapse proteome and phosphoproteome analysis revealed profound vulnerability to SD in developing mice, including immediate impacts on synaptogenesis and key aspects of brain development. With maturation, a unified biochemical effect of sleep on synapses emerges, together with robust homeostatic adaptations and resilience to SD. Our findings show sleep plays a distinct role in early life supporting synapse development, transitioning to homeostatic functions with maturation. One-Sentence Summary: Effects of sleep loss across life stages indicate sleep plays a distinct role in early life supporting synapse maturation.
PXD045362	37987315	Benefits of FAIMS to Improve the Proteome Coverage of Deteriorated and/or Cross-Linked TMT 10-Plex FFPE Tissue and Plasma-Derived Exosomes Samples. 	Benefits of FAIMS to improve the proteome coverage of deteri-orated, and/or cross-linked TMT 10-plex FFPE tissue and plas-ma-derived exosomes samples	Exosomes, FAIMS, FFPE tissue, Orbitrap Exploris 480	The proteome characterization of complex, deteriorated, or cross-linked protein mixtures as paired clinical FFPE or exosome samples isolated from low plasma volumes (250 microL) might be a challenge. In this work, we aimed at investigating the benefits of FAIMS technology coupled to the Orbitrap Exploris 480 mass spectrometer for the TMT quantitative proteomics analyses of these complex samples in comparison to the analysis of protein extracts from cells, frozen tissue, and exosomes isolated from large volume plasma samples (3 mL). TMT experiments were performed using a two-hour gradient LC-MS/MS with or without FAIMS and two compensation voltages (CV = -45 and CV = -60). In the TMT experiments of cells, frozen tissue, or exosomes isolated from large plasma volumes (3 mL) with FAIMS, a limited increase in the number of identified and quantified proteins accompanied by a decrease in the number of peptides identified and quantified was observed. However, we demonstrated here a noticeable improvement (>100%) in the number of peptide and protein identifications and quantifications for the plasma exosomes isolated from low plasma volumes (250 microL) and FFPE tissue samples in TMT experiments with FAIMS in comparison to the LC-MS/MS analysis without FAIMS. Our results highlight the potential of mass spectrometry analyses with FAIMS to increase the depth into the proteome of complex samples derived from deteriorated, cross-linked samples and/or those where the material was scarce, such as FFPE and plasma-derived exosomes from low plasma volumes (250 microL), which might aid in the characterization of their proteome and proteoforms and in the identification of dysregulated proteins that could be used as biomarkers.
PXD038121	37987316	Proteome-Wide Profiling Using Sample Multiplexing of a Human Cell Line Treated with Cannabidiol (CBD) and Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). 	Proteome-wide profiling using sample multiplexing of a human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line treated with cannabidiol (CBD) and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)	Cannabidiol, Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, RTS, TMTpro, endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, unfolded protein response	Cannabis has been used historically for both medicinal and recreational purposes, with the most notable cannabinoids being cannabidiol (CBD) and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). Although their therapeutic effects have been well studied and their recreational use is highly debated, the underlying mechanisms of their biological effects remain poorly defined. In this study, we use isobaric tag-based sample multiplexed proteome profiling to investigate protein abundance differences in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line treated with CBD and THC. We identified significantly regulated proteins by each treatment and performed a pathway classification and associated protein-protein interaction analysis. Our findings suggest that these treatments may lead to mitochondrial dysfunction and induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These data can potentially be interrogated further to investigate the potential role of CBD and THC in various biological and disease contexts, providing a foundation for future studies.
PXD039312	37987447	Microautophagy regulated by STK38 and GABARAPs is essential to repair lysosomes and prevent aging. 	TMTpro-18plex analysis of siSTK38 or siLuc HeLa cells treated with EBSS or LLOMe	EBSS, LLOMe, STK38 siRNA, TMTpro-18plex	Lysosomes are degradative organelles and signaling hubs that maintain cell and tissue homeostasis, and lysosomal dysfunction is implicated in aging and reduced longevity. Lysosomes are frequently damaged, but their repair mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that damaged lysosomal membranes are repaired by microautophagy (a process termed "microlysophagy") and identify key regulators of the first and last steps. We reveal the AGC kinase STK38 as a novel microlysophagy regulator. Through phosphorylation of the scaffold protein DOK1, STK38 is specifically required for the lysosomal recruitment of the AAA+ ATPase VPS4, which terminates microlysophagy by promoting the disassembly of ESCRT components. By contrast, microlysophagy initiation involves non-canonical lipidation of ATG8s, especially the GABARAP subfamily, which is required for ESCRT assembly through interaction with ALIX. Depletion of STK38 and GABARAPs accelerates DNA damage-induced cellular senescence in human cells and curtails lifespan in C. elegans, respectively. Thus, microlysophagy is regulated by STK38 and GABARAPs and could be essential for maintaining lysosomal integrity and preventing aging.
PXD044218	37987851	3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) overexpression in HEK-293 cells alters the global expression profile and modulates cellular processes and pathways. 	3'-tRF-CysGCA overexpression alters the expression profile of HEK-293 cells and modulates cellular processes and pathways	non-coding RNA, post-transcriptional regulation, tRNA-derived RNA fragment (tRF), transcriptomics	tRNA fragments (tRFs) are small non-coding RNAs generated through specific cleavage of tRNAs and involved in various biological processes. Among the different types of tRFs, the 3'-tRFs have attracted scientific interest due to their regulatory role in gene expression. In this study, we investigated the role of 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA), a tRF deriving from cleavage in the T-loop of tRNA(CysGCA), in the regulation of gene expression in HEK-293 cells. Previous studies have shown that 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) is incorporated into the RISC complex and interacts with Argonaute proteins, suggesting its involvement in the regulation of gene expression. However, the general role and effect of the deregulation of 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) levels in human cells have not been investigated so far. To fill this gap, we stably overexpressed 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) in HEK-293 cells and performed transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. Moreover, we validated the interaction of this tRF with putative targets, the levels of which were found to be affected by 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) overexpression. Lastly, we investigated the implication of 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) in various pathways using extensive bioinformatics analysis. Our results indicate that 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) overexpression led to changes in the global gene expression profile of HEK-293 cells and that multiple cellular pathways were affected by the deregulation of the levels of this tRF. Additionally, we demonstrated that 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) directly interacts with thymopoietin (TMPO) transcript variant 1 (also known as LAP2alpha), leading to modulation of its levels. In conclusion, our findings suggest that 3'-tRF-Cys(GCA) plays a significant role in gene expression regulation and highlight the importance of this tRF in cellular processes.
PXD046464	37989721	Plasma proteomic analysis on neuropathic pain in idiopathic peripheral neuropathy patients. 	Plasma proteomic analysis on neuropathic pain in idiopathic peripheral neuropathy patients	idiopathic peripheral neuropathy, neuropathic pain	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Why only half of the idiopathic peripheral neuropathy (IPN) patients develop neuropathic pain remains unknown. By conducting a proteomics analysis on IPN patients, we aimed to discover proteins and new pathways that are associated with neuropathic pain. METHODS: We conducted unbiased mass-spectrometry proteomics analysis on blood plasma from 31 IPN patients with severe neuropathic pain and 29 IPN patients with no pain, to investigate protein biomarkers and protein-protein interactions associated with neuropathic pain. Univariate modeling was done with linear mixed modeling (LMM) and corrected for multiple testing. Multivariate modeling was performed using elastic net analysis and validated with internal cross-validation and bootstrapping. RESULTS: In the univariate analysis, 73 proteins showed a p-value <.05 and 12 proteins showed a p-value <.01. None were significant after Benjamini-Hochberg adjustment for multiple testing. Elastic net analysis created a model containing 12 proteins with reasonable discriminatory power to differentiate between painful and painless IPN (false-negative rate 0.10, false-positive rate 0.18, and an area under the curve 0.75). Eight of these 12 proteins were clustered into one interaction network, significantly enriched for the complement and coagulation pathway (Benjamini-Hochberg adjusted p-value = .0057), with complement component 3 (C3) as the central node. Bootstrap validation identified insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 2 (IGFBP2), complement factor H-related protein 4 (CFHR4), and ferritin light chain (FTL), as the most discriminatory proteins of the original 12 identified. INTERPRETATION: This proteomics analysis suggests a role for the complement system in neuropathic pain in IPN.
PXD045961	37989995	PTK2B promotes TBK1 and STING oligomerization and enhances the STING-TBK1 signaling. 	Overexpress S-protein tagged mouse TBK1 protein and identify the TBK1-interacting proteins by mass spectrometry	LC-MS/MS assays, RAW 264.7 cells, SFB-tagged mTBK1	TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) is a key kinase in regulating antiviral innate immune responses. While the oligomerization of TBK1 is critical for its full activation, the molecular mechanism of how TBK1 forms oligomers remains unclear. Here, we show that protein tyrosine kinase 2 beta (PTK2B) acts as a TBK1-interacting protein and regulates TBK1 oligomerization. Functional assays reveal that PTK2B depletion reduces antiviral signaling in mouse embryonic fibroblasts, macrophages and dendritic cells, and genetic experiments show that Ptk2b-deficient mice are more susceptible to viral infection than control mice. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that PTK2B directly phosphorylates residue Tyr591 of TBK1, which increases TBK1 oligomerization and activation. In addition, we find that PTK2B also interacts with the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) and can promote its oligomerization in a kinase-independent manner. Collectively, PTK2B enhances the oligomerization of TBK1 and STING via different mechanisms, subsequently regulating STING-TBK1 activation to ensure efficient antiviral innate immune responses.
PXD035935	37990292	Development of a predictive model to distinguish prostate cancer from benign prostatic hyperplasia by integrating serum glycoproteomics and clinical variables. 	PRM analysis of serum samples obtained from PCa and BPH patients	PRM, serum	BACKGROUND: Prostate Cancer (PCa) represents the second leading cause of cancer-related death in men. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) serum testing, currently used for PCa screening, lacks the necessary sensitivity and specificity. New non-invasive diagnostic tools able to discriminate tumoral from benign conditions and aggressive (AG-PCa) from indolent forms of PCa (NAG-PCa) are required to avoid unnecessary biopsies. METHODS: In this work, 32 formerly N-glycosylated peptides were quantified by PRM (parallel reaction monitoring) in 163 serum samples (79 from PCa patients and 84 from individuals affected by benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)) in two technical replicates. These potential biomarker candidates were prioritized through a multi-stage biomarker discovery pipeline articulated in: discovery, LC-PRM assay development and verification phases. Because of the well-established involvement of glycoproteins in cancer development and progression, the proteomic analysis was focused on glycoproteins enriched by TiO2 (titanium dioxide) strategy. RESULTS: Machine learning algorithms have been applied to the combined matrix comprising proteomic and clinical variables, resulting in a predictive model based on six proteomic variables (RNASE1, LAMP2, LUM, MASP1, NCAM1, GPLD1) and five clinical variables (prostate dimension, proPSA, free-PSA, total-PSA, free/total-PSA) able to distinguish PCa from BPH with an area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve of 0.93. This model outperformed PSA alone which, on the same sample set, was able to discriminate PCa from BPH with an AUC of 0.79. To improve the clinical managing of PCa patients, an explorative small-scale analysis (79 samples) aimed at distinguishing AG-PCa from NAG-PCa was conducted. A predictor of PCa aggressiveness based on the combination of 7 proteomic variables (FCN3, LGALS3BP, AZU1, C6, LAMB1, CHL1, POSTN) and proPSA was developed (AUC of 0.69). CONCLUSIONS: To address the impelling need of more sensitive and specific serum diagnostic tests, a predictive model combining proteomic and clinical variables was developed. A preliminary evaluation to build a new tool able to discriminate aggressive presentations of PCa from tumors with benign behavior was exploited. This predictor displayed moderate performances, but no conclusions can be drawn due to the limited number of the sample cohort. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD035935.
PXD045952	37991368	Interaction of species A rotavirus VP4 with the cellular proteins vimentin and actin related protein 2 discovered by a proximity interactome assay. 	Interaction of species A rotavirus VP4 with the cellular proteins vimentin and actin related protein 2 discovered by a proximity interactome assay	ACTR2, Rotavirus, VIM, VP4, Viral entry, proximity labeling	IMPORTANCE: Rotavirus (RV) is an important zoonosis virus, which can cause severe diarrhea and extra-intestinal infection. To date, some proteins or carbohydrates have been shown to participate in the attachment or internalization of RV, including HGBAs, Hsc70, and integrins. This study attempted to indicate whether there were other proteins that would participate in the entry of RV; thus, the RV VP4-interacting proteins were identified by proximity labeling. After analysis and verification, it was found that VIM and ACTR2 could significantly promote the proliferation of RV in intestinal cells. Through further viral binding assays after knockdown, antibody blocking, and recombinant protein overexpression, it was revealed that both VIM and ACTR2 could promote RV replication.
PXD040208	37991879	Open Source Antibiotics: Simple Diarylimidazoles Are Potent against Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 	Kinase Selectivity Profiling of anti-MRSA Diarylimidazoles in HEK293 Cells	HEK293, MIB-MS, antimicrobials, diarylimidazole, kinases	Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is widely acknowledged as one of the most serious public health threats facing the world, yet the private sector finds it challenging to generate much-needed medicines. As an alternative discovery approach, a small array of diarylimidazoles was screened against the ESKAPE pathogens, and the results were made publicly available through the Open Source Antibiotics (OSA) consortium (https://github.com/opensourceantibiotics). Of the 18 compounds tested (at 32 mug/mL), 15 showed >90% growth inhibition activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) alone. In the subsequent hit-to-lead optimization of this chemotype, 147 new heterocyclic compounds containing the diarylimidazole and other core motifs were synthesized and tested against MRSA, and their structure-activity relationships were identified. While potent, these compounds have moderate to high intrinsic clearance and some associated toxicity. The best overall balance of parameters was found with OSA_975, a compound with good potency, good solubility, and reduced intrinsic clearance in rat hepatocytes. We have progressed toward the knowledge of the molecular target of these phenotypically active compounds, with proteomic techniques suggesting TGFBR1 is potentially involved in the mechanism of action. Further development of these compounds toward antimicrobial medicines is available to anyone under the licensing terms of the project.
PXD045488	37993102	Glycan Complexity and Heterogeneity of Glycoproteins in Somatic Extracts and Secretome of the Infective Stage of the Helminth Fasciola hepatica. 	Glycosylation of somatic extracts and secretome in the infective stage of the helminth Fasciola hepatica	Glycosylation, Parasites, glycoproteomics, orbitrap	Fasciola hepatica is a global helminth parasite of humans and their livestock. The invasive stage of the parasite, the newly excysted juvenile (NEJs), relies on glycosylated excreted-secreted (ES) products and surface/somatic molecules to interact with host cells and tissues and to evade the host's immune responses, such as disarming complement and shedding bound antibody. While -omics technologies have generated extensive databases of NEJs' proteins and their expression, detailed knowledge of the glycosylation of proteins is still lacking. Here, we employed glycan, glycopeptide, and proteomic analyses to determine the glycan profile of proteins within the NEJs' somatic (Som) and ES extracts. These analyses characterized 123 NEJ glycoproteins, 71 of which are secreted proteins, and allowed us to map 356 glycopeptides and their associated 1690 N-glycan and 37 O-glycan forms to their respective proteins. We discovered abundant micro-heterogeneity in the glycosylation of individual glycosites and between different sites of multi-glycosylated proteins. The global heterogeneity across NEJs' glycoproteome was refined to 53 N-glycan and 16 O-glycan structures, ranging from highly truncated paucimannosidic structures to complex glycans carrying multiple phosphorylcholine (PC) residues, and included various unassigned structures due to unique linkages, particularly in pentosylated O-glycans. Such exclusive glycans decorate some well-known secreted molecules involved in host invasion, including cathepsin B and L peptidases, and a variety of membrane-bound glycoproteins, suggesting that they participate in host interactions. Our findings show that F. hepatica NEJs generate exceptional protein variability via glycosylation, suggesting that their molecular portfolio that communicates with the host is far more complex than previously anticipated by transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. This study opens many avenues to understand the glycan biology of F. hepatica throughout its life-stages, as well as other helminth parasites, and allows us to probe the glycosylation of individual NEJs proteins in the search for innovative diagnostics and vaccines against fascioliasis.
PXD025589	37993104	Integrative proteogenomics for differential expression and splicing variation in a DM1 mouse model. 	Integrative proteogenomics for differential expression and splicing variation in a DM1 mouse model	Alternative Splicing, Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1), Proteogenomics, Transcriptomics, mouse model	Dysregulated mRNA splicing is involved in the pathogenesis of many diseases including cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, and muscular dystrophies such as myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1). Comprehensive assessment of dysregulated splicing on the transcriptome and proteome level has been methodologically challenging, and thus investigations have often been targeting only few genes. Here, we performed a large-scale coordinated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis to characterize a DM1 mouse model (HSA(LR)) in comparison to wild-type. Our integrative proteogenomics approach comprised gene- and splicing-level assessments for mRNAs and proteins. It recapitulated many known instances of aberrant mRNA splicing in DM1 and identified new ones. It enabled the design and targeting of splicing-specific peptides and confirmed the translation of known instances of aberrantly spliced disease-related genes (e.g. Atp2a1, Bin1, Ryr1), complemented by novel findings (Flnc and Ywhae). Comparative analysis of large-scale mRNA and protein expression data showed quantitative agreement of differentially expressed genes and splicing patterns between disease and wild-type. We hence propose this work as a suitable blueprint for a robust and scalable integrative proteogenomic strategy geared towards advancing our understanding of splicing-based disorders. With such a strategy, splicing-based biomarker candidates emerge as an attractive and accessible option, as they can be efficiently asserted on the mRNA and protein level in coordinated fashion.
PXD039505	37993262	Combined Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Characterization of the Molecular Regulators and Functional Modules During Pancreatic Progenitor Cell Development. 	Combined proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling characterizes the molecular regulators and functional modules during pancreatic progenitor cell development	pancreatic progenitor cell	Differentiated multipotent pancreatic progenitors have major advantages for both modeling pancreas development and preventing or treating diabetes. Despite significant advancements in inducing the differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells into insulin-producing cells, the complete mechanism governing proliferation and differentiation remains poorly understood. This study used large-scale mass spectrometry to characterize molecular processes at various stages of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) differentiation toward pancreatic progenitors. hESCs were induced into pancreatic progenitor cells in a five-stage differentiation protocol. A high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry platform was used to undertake comprehensive proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of cells at different stages. A series of bioinformatic explorations, including coregulated modules, gene regulatory networks, and phosphosite enrichment analysis, were then conducted. A total of 27,077 unique phosphorylated sites and 8122 proteins were detected, including several cyclin-dependent kinases at the initial stage of cell differentiation. Furthermore, we discovered that ERK1, a member of the MAPK cascade, contributed to proliferation at an early stage. Finally, Western blotting confirmed that the phosphosites from SIRT1 and CHEK1 could inhibit the corresponding substrate abundance in the late stage. Thus, this study extends our understanding of the molecular mechanism during pancreatic cell development.
PXD040236	37994785	Interactome of intact chromatosome variants with site-specifically ubiquitylated and acetylated linker histone H1.2. 	Interactome of intact chromatosome variants with site-specifically ubiquitylated and acetylated linker histone H1.2	:  Proteomics, Post-translational modification, affinity enrichment, chemical biology, chromatosome, linker histone	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) of histones have fundamental effects on chromatin structure and function. While the impact of PTMs on the function of core histones are increasingly well understood, this is much less the case for modifications of linker histone H1, which is at least in part due to a lack of proper tools. In this work, we establish the assembly of intact chromatosomes containing site-specifically ubiquitylated and acetylated linker histone H1.2 variants obtained by a combination of chemical biology approaches. We then use these complexes in a tailored affinity enrichment mass spectrometry workflow to identify and comprehensively characterize chromatosome-specific cellular interactomes and the impact of site-specific linker histone modifications on a proteome-wide scale. We validate and benchmark our approach by western-blotting and by confirming the involvement of chromatin-bound H1.2 in the recruitment of proteins involved in DNA double-strand break repair using an in vitro ligation assay. We relate our data to previous work and in particular compare it to data on modification-specific interaction partners of free H1. Taken together, our data supports the role of chromatin-bound H1 as a regulatory protein with distinct functions beyond DNA compaction and constitutes an important resource for future investigations of histone epigenetic modifications.
PXD041685	37996419	BioE3 identifies specific substrates of ubiquitin E3 ligases. 	BioE3 enables the identification of bona fide targets of E3 ligases	BioE3, E3-ligases, ubiquitination	Hundreds of E3 ligases play a critical role in recognizing specific substrates for modification by ubiquitin (Ub). Separating genuine targets of E3s from E3-interactors remains a challenge. We present BioE3, a powerful approach for matching substrates to Ub E3 ligases of interest. Using BirA-E3 ligase fusions and bioUb, site-specific biotinylation of Ub-modified substrates of particular E3s facilitates proteomic identification. We show that BioE3 identifies both known and new targets of two RING-type E3 ligases: RNF4 (DNA damage response, PML bodies), and MIB1 (endocytosis, autophagy, centrosome dynamics). Versatile BioE3 identifies targets of an organelle-specific E3 (MARCH5) and a relatively uncharacterized E3 (RNF214). Furthermore, BioE3 works with NEDD4, a HECT-type E3, identifying new targets linked to vesicular trafficking. BioE3 detects altered specificity in response to chemicals, opening avenues for targeted protein degradation, and may be applicable for other Ub-likes (UbLs, e.g., SUMO) and E3 types. BioE3 applications shed light on cellular regulation by the complex UbL network.
PXD046173	37996458	ID1 expressing macrophages support cancer cell stemness and limit CD8(+) T cell infiltration in colorectal cancer. 	Screening for the transcriptional factors interacted  with Id1 in RAW264.7 cells	Id1,RAW264.7 cells, protein-protein interaction	Elimination of cancer stem cells (CSCs) and reinvigoration of antitumor immunity remain unmet challenges for cancer therapy. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) constitute the prominant population of immune cells in tumor tissues, contributing to the formation of CSC niches and a suppressive immune microenvironment. Here, we report that high expression of inhibitor of differentiation 1 (ID1) in TAMs correlates with poor outcome in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). ID1 expressing macrophages maintain cancer stemness and impede CD8(+) T cell infiltration. Mechanistically, ID1 interacts with STAT1 to induce its cytoplasmic distribution and inhibits STAT1-mediated SerpinB2 and CCL4 transcription, two secretory factors responsible for cancer stemness inhibition and CD8(+) T cell recruitment. Reducing ID1 expression ameliorates CRC progression and enhances tumor sensitivity to immunotherapy and chemotherapy. Collectively, our study highlights the pivotal role of ID1 in controlling the protumor phenotype of TAMs and paves the way for therapeutic targeting of ID1 in CRC.
PXD044936	37996818	Integrated small RNA, mRNA and protein omics reveal a miRNA network orchestrating metabolic maturation of the developing human heart. 	Integrated small RNA, mRNA and protein omics reveal a miRNA network orchestrating metabolic maturation of the developing human heart	Human fetal heart	BACKGROUND: As the fetal heart develops, cardiomyocyte proliferation potential decreases while fatty acid oxidative capacity increases in a highly regulated transition known as cardiac maturation. Small noncoding RNAs, such as microRNAs (miRNAs), contribute to the establishment and control of tissue-specific transcriptional programs. However, small RNA expression dynamics and genome-wide miRNA regulatory networks controlling maturation of the human fetal heart remain poorly understood. RESULTS: Transcriptome profiling of small RNAs revealed the temporal expression patterns of miRNA, piRNA, circRNA, snoRNA, snRNA and tRNA in the developing human heart between 8 and 19 weeks of gestation. Our analysis demonstrated that miRNAs were the most dynamically expressed small RNA species throughout mid-gestation. Cross-referencing differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNAs predicted 6200 mRNA targets, 2134 of which were upregulated and 4066 downregulated as gestation progressed. Moreover, we found that downregulated targets of upregulated miRNAs, including hsa-let-7b, miR-1-3p, miR-133a-3p, miR-143-3p, miR-499a-5p, and miR-30a-5p predominantly control cell cycle progression. In contrast, upregulated targets of downregulated miRNAs, including hsa-miR-1276, miR-183-5p, miR-1229-3p, miR-615-3p, miR-421, miR-200b-3p and miR-18a-3p, are linked to energy sensing and oxidative metabolism. Furthermore, integrating miRNA and mRNA profiles with proteomes and reporter metabolites revealed that proteins encoded in mRNA targets and their associated metabolites mediate fatty acid oxidation and are enriched as the heart develops. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents the first comprehensive analysis of the small RNAome of the maturing human fetal heart. Our findings suggest that coordinated activation and repression of miRNA expression throughout mid-gestation is essential to establish a dynamic miRNA-mRNA-protein network that decreases cardiomyocyte proliferation potential while increasing the oxidative capacity of the maturing human fetal heart. Our results provide novel insights into the molecular control of metabolic maturation of the human fetal heart.
PXD046030	37999519	Structural Similarities, in Relation with the Cross-Reactivity, of Hymenoptera Allergenic Dipeptidyl Peptidases IV-An Overall Comparison Including a New Dipeptidyl Peptidase IV Sequence from Vespa velutina. 	Structural Similarities on Hymenoptera Allergenic Dipeptidyl Peptidases IV (DPPIVs). Overall comparison also including a new DPPIV sequence from Vespa velutina.	DPPIV Vespa velutina allergen sequence cross-reactivity	(1) Background: Dipeptidyl Peptidases IV (DPPIVs), present in many organisms, are minor components in the venoms of Hymenoptera, where they have been identified as cross-reactive allergenic molecules. Considering that the structure of homologous DPPIVs is well characterized, we aimed to explain which regions have higher similarity among these proteins and present a comparison among them, including a new Vespa velutina DPPIV sequence. Moreover, two cases of sensitization to DPPIVs in wasp- and honeybee-sensitized patients are presented. (2) Methods: Proteomic analyses have been performed on the venom of the Asian hornet Vespa velutina to demonstrate the sequence of its DPPIV (allergen named Vesp v 3, with sequence accession number P0DRB8, and with the proteomic data available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD046030). A comparison performed through their alignments and analysis of the three-dimensional structure showed a region with higher similarity among Hymenoptera DPPIVs. Additionally, ImmunoCAP(TM) determinations (including specific inhibition experiments), as well as IgE immunoblotting, are performed to demonstrate the allergenicity of Api m 5 and Ves v 3. (3) Results and Conclusions: The data presented demonstrate that the similarities among Hymenoptera DPPIVs are most likely localized at the C-terminal region of these enzymes. In addition, a higher similarity of the Vespa/Vespula DPPIVs is shown. The clinical cases analyzed demonstrated the allergenicity of Api m 5 and Ves v 3 in the sera of the allergic patients, as well as the presence of this minor component in the preparations used in venom immunotherapy.
PXD040642	37	Poly(8-aminoguanylic acid): formation of ordered self-structures and interaction with poly(cytidylic acid). 	Mouse Kidney LC-MS/MS with HRP-Ism1	Isthmin-1, Mouse kidney	Poly(8-aminoguanylic acid) has in neutral solution a novel ordered structure of high stability. The 8-amino group permits formation of three hydrogen bonds between two residues along the "top", or long axis, of the purines. The usual hydrogen bonding protons and Watson-Crick pairing sites are not involved in the association. The bonding scheme has a twofold rotation axis and is hemiprotonated at N(7). Poly(8NH2G) is converted by alkaline titration (pK = 9.7) to a quite different ordered structure, which is the favored form over the range approximately pH 10-11. The bonding scheme appears to be composed of a planar, tetrameric array of guanine residues, in which the 8-amino group does not participate in interbase hydrogen bonding. Poly (8NH2G) does not interact with poly(C) in neutral solution because of the high stability of the hemiprotonated G-G self-structure. Titration to the alkaline plateau, however, permits ready formation of a two-stranded Watson-Crick helix. In contrast to the monomer 8NH2GMP, poly(8NH2G) does not form a triple helix with poly(C) under any conditions. The properties of the ordered structures are interpreted in terms of a strong tendency of the 8-amino group to form a third interbase hydrogen bond, when this possibility is not prevented by high pH.
PXD044810	38000035	Accurate prediction of HLA class II antigen presentation across all loci using tailored data acquisition and refined machine learning. 	Accurate prediction of antigen presentation for HLA class II across loci using tailored data acquisition and refined machine learning	Antigen Presentation, HLA-Class II, HLA-DP, Machine learning, NetMHCIIpan-4.3	Accurate prediction of antigen presentation by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II molecules is crucial for rational development of immunotherapies and vaccines targeting CD4(+) T cell activation. So far, most prediction methods for HLA class II antigen presentation have focused on HLA-DR because of limited availability of immunopeptidomics data for HLA-DQ and HLA-DP while not taking into account alternative peptide binding modes. We present an update to the NetMHCIIpan prediction method, which closes the performance gap between all three HLA class II loci. We accomplish this by first integrating large immunopeptidomics datasets describing the HLA class II specificity space across all loci using a refined machine learning framework that accommodates inverted peptide binders. Next, we apply targeted immunopeptidomics assays to generate data that covers additional HLA-DP specificities. The final method, NetMHCIIpan-4.3, achieves high accuracy and molecular coverage across all HLA class II allotypes.
PXD040078	38001062	Improved in situ characterization of protein complex dynamics at scale with thermal proximity co-aggregation. 	Improved in situ Characterization of Proteome-wide Protein Complex Dynamics with Thermal Proximity Co-Aggregation	Slim-TPCA, glucose deprivation, protein complexes	Cellular activities are carried out vastly by protein complexes but large repertoire of protein complexes remains functionally uncharacterized which necessitate new strategies to delineate their roles in various cellular processes and diseases. Thermal proximity co-aggregation (TPCA) is readily deployable to characterize protein complex dynamics in situ and at scale. We develop a version termed Slim-TPCA that uses fewer temperatures increasing throughputs by over 3X, with new scoring metrics and statistical evaluation that result in minimal compromise in coverage and detect more relevant complexes. Less samples are needed, batch effects are minimized while statistical evaluation cost is reduced by two orders of magnitude. We applied Slim-TPCA to profile K562 cells under different duration of glucose deprivation. More protein complexes are found dissociated, in accordance with the expected downregulation of most cellular activities, that include 55S ribosome and respiratory complexes in mitochondria revealing the utility of TPCA to study protein complexes in organelles. Protein complexes in protein transport and degradation are found increasingly assembled unveiling their involvement in metabolic reprogramming during glucose deprivation. In summary, Slim-TPCA is an efficient strategy for characterization of protein complexes at scale across cellular conditions, and is available as Python package at https://pypi.org/project/Slim-TPCA/ .
PXD046315	38001233	The Rauvolfia tetraphylla genome suggests multiple distinct biosynthetic routes for yohimbane monoterpene indole alkaloids. 	Rauvolfia tetraphylla latex proteome	alkaloid, geissoschizine, medium chain dehydrogenase/reductase, rauwolscine, yohimbane, yohimbine	Monoterpene indole alkaloids (MIAs) are a structurally diverse family of specialized metabolites mainly produced in Gentianales to cope with environmental challenges. Due to their pharmacological properties, the biosynthetic modalities of several MIA types have been elucidated but not that of the yohimbanes. Here, we combine metabolomics, proteomics, transcriptomics and genome sequencing of Rauvolfia tetraphylla with machine learning to discover the unexpected multiple actors of this natural product synthesis. We identify a medium chain dehydrogenase/reductase (MDR) that produces a mixture of four diastereomers of yohimbanes including the well-known yohimbine and rauwolscine. In addition to this multifunctional yohimbane synthase (YOS), an MDR synthesizing mainly heteroyohimbanes and the short chain dehydrogenase vitrosamine synthase also display a yohimbane synthase side activity. Lastly, we establish that the combination of geissoschizine synthase with at least three other MDRs also produces a yohimbane mixture thus shedding light on the complex mechanisms evolved for the synthesis of these plant bioactives.
PXD044147	38001239	IL-1beta-mediated adaptive reprogramming of endogenous human cardiac fibroblasts to cells with immune features during fibrotic remodeling. 	IL1B Fibrosis Secretome Samples	Fibrosis, IL1B	The source and roles of fibroblasts and T-cells during maladaptive remodeling and myocardial fibrosis in the setting of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) have been long debated. We demonstrate, using single-cell mass cytometry, a subpopulation of endogenous human cardiac fibroblasts expressing increased levels of CD4, a helper T-cell marker, in addition to myofibroblast markers distributed in human fibrotic RV tissue, interstitial and perivascular lesions in SUGEN/Hypoxia (SuHx) rats, and fibroblasts labeled with pdgfralpha CreERt2/+ in R26R-tdTomato mice. Recombinant IL-1beta increases IL-1R, CCR2 receptor expression, modifies the secretome, and differentiates cardiac fibroblasts to form CD68-positive cell clusters. IL-1beta also activates stemness markers, such as NANOG and SOX2, and genes involved in dedifferentiation, lymphoid cell function and metabolic reprogramming. IL-1beta induction of lineage traced primary mouse cardiac fibroblasts causes these cells to lose their fibroblast identity and acquire an immune phenotype. Our results identify IL-1beta induced immune-competency in human cardiac fibroblasts and suggest that fibroblast secretome modulation may constitute a therapeutic approach to PAH and other diseases typified by inflammation and fibrotic remodeling.
PXD045034	38001256	Non-canonical BIM-regulated energy metabolism determines drug-induced liver necrosis. 	Non-canonical BIM-regulated energy metabolism determines drug-induced liver necrosis	APAP, Paracetamol, hepatotoxicity, necrosis	Paracetamol (acetaminophen, APAP) overdose severely damages mitochondria and triggers several apoptotic processes in hepatocytes, but the final outcome is fulminant necrotic cell death, resulting in acute liver failure and mortality. Here, we studied this switch of cell death modes and demonstrate a non-canonical role of the apoptosis-regulating BCL-2 homolog BIM/Bcl2l11 in promoting necrosis by regulating cellular bioenergetics. BIM deficiency enhanced total ATP production and shifted the bioenergetic profile towards glycolysis, resulting in persistent protection from APAP-induced liver injury. Modulation of glucose levels and deletion of Mitofusins confirmed that severe APAP toxicity occurs only in cells dependent on oxidative phosphorylation. Glycolytic hepatocytes maintained elevated ATP levels and reduced ROS, which enabled lysosomal recycling of damaged mitochondria by mitophagy. The present study highlights how metabolism and bioenergetics affect drug-induced liver toxicity, and identifies BIM as important regulator of glycolysis, mitochondrial respiration, and oxidative stress signaling.
PXD045723	38001909	Interplay between Cultured Human Osteoblastic and Skeletal Muscle Cells: Effects of Conditioned Media on Glucose and Fatty Acid Metabolism. 	Interplay between cultured human osteoblastic and skeletal muscle cells: Effects of conditioned media on glucose and fatty acid metabolism	Energy metabolism, Myokines, Osteoblastic cells, Osteokines, Primary human myotubes	The interplay between skeletal muscle and bone is primarily mechanical; however, biochemical crosstalk by secreted mediators has recently gained increased attention. The aim of this study was to investigate metabolic effects of conditioned medium from osteoblasts (OB-CM) on myotubes and vice versa. Human skeletal muscle cells incubated with OB-CM showed increased glucose uptake and oxidation, and mRNA expression of the glucose transporter (GLUT) 1, while fatty acid uptake and oxidation, and mRNA expression of the fatty acid transporter CD36 were decreased. This was supported by proteomic analysis, where expression of proteins involved in glucose uptake, glycolytic pathways, and the TCA cycle were enhanced, and expression of several proteins involved in fatty acid metabolism were reduced. Similar effects on energy metabolism were observed in human bone marrow stromal cells differentiated to osteoblastic cells incubated with conditioned medium from myotubes (SKM-CM), with increased glucose uptake and reduced oleic acid uptake. Proteomic analyses of the two conditioned media revealed many common proteins. Thus, our data may indicate a shift in fuel preference from fatty acid to glucose metabolism in both cell types, induced by conditioned media from the opposite cell type, possibly indicating a more general pattern in communication between these tissues.
PXD046776	38003379	Keratinocytes Exposed to Blue or Red Light: Proteomic Characterization Showed Cytoplasmic Thioredoxin Reductase 1 and Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1 Member C3 Triggered Expression. 	HaCaT cells exposed to blue and red light	blue light, keratinocytes, red light	Several cell-signaling mechanisms are activated by visible light radiation in human keratinocytes, but the key regulatory proteins involved in this specific cellular response have not yet been identified. Human keratinocytes (HaCaT cells) were exposed to blue or red light at low or high irradiance for 3 days in cycles of 12 h of light and 12 h of dark. The cell viability, apoptotic rate and cell cycle progression were analyzed in all experimental conditions. The proteomic profile, oxidative stress and mitochondrial morphology were additionally evaluated in the HaCaT cells following exposure to high-irradiance blue or red light. Low-irradiance blue or red light exposure did not show an alteration in the cell viability, cell death or cell cycle progression. High-irradiance blue or red light reduced the cell viability, induced cell death and cell cycle G2/M arrest, increased the reactive oxygen species (ROS) and altered the mitochondrial density and morphology. The proteomic profile revealed a pivotal role of Cytoplasmic thioredoxin reductase 1 (TXNRD1) and Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3) in the response of the HaCaT cells to high-irradiance blue or red light exposure. Blue or red light exposure affected the viability of keratinocytes, activating a specific oxidative stress response and inducing mitochondrial dysfunction. Our results can help to address the targets for the therapeutic use of light and to develop adequate preventive strategies for skin damage. This in vitro study supports further in vivo investigations of the biological effects of light on human keratinocytes.
PXD046488	38003390	Global Analysis of Lysine Lactylation of Germinated Seeds in Wheat. 	Global Analysis of Lysine Lactylation of Germinated Seeds in Wheat	Posttranslational modification, lactylome, seed germination, wheat	Protein lactylation is a newly discovered posttranslational modification (PTM) and is involved in multiple biological processes, both in mammalian cells and rice grains. However, the function of lysine lactylation remains unexplored in wheat. In this study, we performed the first comparative proteomes and lysine lactylomes during seed germination of wheat. In total, 8000 proteins and 927 lactylated sites in 394 proteins were identified at 0 and 12 h after imbibition (HAI). Functional enrichment analysis showed that glycolysis- and TCA-cycle-related proteins were significantly enriched, and more differentially lactylated proteins were enriched in up-regulated lactylated proteins at 12 HAI vs. 0 HAI through the KEGG pathway and protein domain enrichment analysis compared to down-regulated lactylated proteins. Meanwhile, ten particularly preferred amino acids near lactylation sites were found in the embryos of germinated seeds: AA*K(la)T, A***K(la)D********A, K(la)A**T****K, K******A*K(la), K*K(la)********K, K(la)A******A, K(la)*A, KD****K(la), K********K(la) and K(la)G. These results supplied a comprehensive profile of lysine lactylation of wheat and indicated that protein lysine lactylation played important functions in several biological processes.
PXD046265	38005222	Two-Dimensional-PAGE Coupled with nLC-MS/MS-Based Identification of Differentially Expressed Proteins and Tumorigenic Pathways in MCF7 Breast Cancer Cells Transfected for JTB Protein Silencing. 	2D-PAGE coupled with nLC-MS/MS-based identification of differentialy expressed proteins and tumorigenic pathways in MCF7 breast cancer cell line transfected for JTB protein silencing	JTB protein silencing, MCF7, breast cancer (BC), downregulated JTB-interactome, overexpressed JTB-interactome, tumorigenic pathways	The identification of new cancer-associated genes/proteins, the characterization of their expression variation, the interactomics-based assessment of differentially expressed genes/proteins (DEGs/DEPs), and understanding the tumorigenic pathways and biological processes involved in BC genesis and progression are necessary and possible by the rapid and recent advances in bioinformatics and molecular profiling strategies. Taking into account the opinion of other authors, as well as based on our own team's in vitro studies, we suggest that the human jumping translocation breakpoint (hJTB) protein might be considered as a tumor biomarker for BC and should be studied as a target for BC therapy. In this study, we identify DEPs, carcinogenic pathways, and biological processes associated with JTB silencing, using 2D-PAGE coupled with nano-liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS) proteomics applied to a MCF7 breast cancer cell line, for complementing and completing our previous results based on SDS-PAGE, as well as in-solution proteomics of MCF7 cells transfected for JTB downregulation. The functions of significant DEPs are analyzed using GSEA and KEGG analyses. Almost all DEPs exert pro-tumorigenic effects in the JTB(low) condition, sustaining the tumor suppressive function of JTB. Thus, the identified DEPs are involved in several signaling and metabolic pathways that play pro-tumorigenic roles: EMT, ERK/MAPK, PI3K/AKT, Wnt/beta-catenin, mTOR, C-MYC, NF-kappaB, IFN-gamma and IFN-alpha responses, UPR, and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. These pathways sustain cancer cell growth, adhesion, survival, proliferation, invasion, metastasis, resistance to apoptosis, tight junctions and cytoskeleton reorganization, the maintenance of stemness, metabolic reprogramming, survival in a hostile environment, and sustain a poor clinical outcome. In conclusion, JTB silencing might increase the neoplastic phenotype and behavior of the MCF7 BC cell line. The data is available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD046265.
PXD042459	38006349	Identified Small Open Reading Frame-Encoded Peptides in Human Serum with Nanoparticle Protein Coronas. 	Identified small open reading frame encoded peptides in plasma with nanoparticle protein coronas	Nanoparticle protein coronas, Serum, Small open reading encoded peptides	The low-molecular-weight proteins (LMWP) in serum and plasma are related to various human diseases and can be valuable biomarkers. A small open reading frame-encoded peptide (SEP) is one kind of LMWP, which has been found to function in many bioprocesses and has also been found in human blood, making it a potential biomarker. The detection of LMWP by a mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic assay is often inhibited by the wide dynamic range of serum/plasma protein abundance. Nanoparticle protein coronas are a newly emerging protein enrichment method. To analyze SEPs in human serum, we have developed a protocol integrated with nanoparticle protein coronas and liquid chromatography (LC)/MS/MS. With three nanoparticles, TiO2, Fe3O4@SiO2, and Fe3O4@SiO2@TiO2, we identified 164 new SEPs in the human serum sample. Fe3O4@SiO2 and a nanoparticle mixture obtained the maximum number and the largest proportion of identified SEPs, respectively. Compared with acetonitrile-based extraction, nanoparticle protein coronas can cover more small proteins and SEPs. The magnetic nanoparticle is also fit for high-throughput parallel protein separation before LC/MS. This method is fast, efficient, reproducible, and easy to operate in 96-well plates and centrifuge tubes, which will benefit the research on SEPs and biomarkers.
PXD040905	38006431	Assessment of hypoxia and oxidative-related changes in a lung-derived brain metastasis model by [(64)Cu][Cu(ATSM)] PET and proteomic studies. 	Proteomic study in a preclinical lung-derived brain metastasis	Brain metastasis, lung cancer, preclinical, rat	BACKGROUND: Brain metastases (BM) are the most frequent malignant brain tumors. The aim of this study was to characterize the tumor microenvironment (TME) of BM and particularly hypoxia and redox state, known to play a role in tumor growth and treatment resistance with multimodal PET and MRI imaging, immunohistochemical and proteomic approaches in a human lung cancer (H2030-BrM3)-derived BM model in rats. RESULTS: First, in vitro studies confirmed that H2030-BrM3 cells respond to hypoxia with increasing expression of HIF-1, HIF-2 and their target genes. Proteomic analyses revealed, among expression changes, proteins associated with metabolism, oxidative stress, metal response and hypoxia signaling in particular in cortical BM. [(64)Cu][Cu(ATSM)] PET revealed a significant uptake by cortical BM (p < 0.01), while no uptake is observed in striatal BM 23 days after tumor implantation. Pimonidazole, HIF-1alpha, HIF-2alpha, CA-IX as well as GFAP, CTR1 and DMT1 immunostainings are positive in both BM. CONCLUSION: Overall, [(64)Cu][Cu(ATSM)] imaging and proteomic results showed the presence of hypoxia and protein expression changes linked to hypoxia and oxidative stress in BM, which are more pronounced in cortical BM compared to striatal BM. Moreover, it emphasized the interest of [(64)Cu][Cu(ATSM)] PET to characterize TME of BM and depict inter-metastasis heterogeneity that could be useful to guide treatments.
PXD041218	38008115	Progresses and challenges in Strongyloides spp. proteomics. 	Progresses and challenges of Strongyloides spp. proteomics	Excretory/Secretory product (ESP), Immunoproteomics, Somatic proteome, Strongyloidiasis	The availability of high-quality data of helminth genomes provided over the past two decades has supported and accelerated large-scale 'omics studies and, consequently, the achievement of a more in-depth molecular characterization of a number of pathogens. This has also involved Strongyloides spp. and since their genome was made available transcriptomics has been rather frequently applied to investigate gene expression regulation across their life cycle. Strongyloides proteomics characterization has instead been somehow neglected, with only a few reports performing high-throughput or targeted analyses associated with protein identification by tandem mass spectrometry. Such investigations are however necessary in order to discern important aspects associated with human strongyloidiasis, including understanding parasite biology and the mechanisms of host-parasite interaction, but also to identify novel diagnostic and therapeutic targets. In this review article, we will give an overview of the published proteomics studies investigating strongyloidiasis at different levels, spanning from the characterization of the somatic proteome and excretory/secretory products of different parasite stages to the investigation of potentially immunogenic proteins. Moreover, in the effort to try to start filling the current gap in host-proteomics, we will also present the first serum proteomics analysis in patients suffering from human strongyloidiasis. This article is part of the Theo Murphy meeting issue 'Strongyloides: omics to worm-free populations'.
PXD042528	38008487	High-throughput intact Glycopeptide quantification strategy with targeted-MS (HTiGQs-target) reveals site-specific IgG N-glycopeptides as biomarkers for hepatic disorder diagnosis and staging. 	High-Throughput Intact Glycopeptide Quantification Strategy with Targeted-MS (HTiGQs-Target) Reveals Site-Specific IgG N-Glycopeptides as Biomarkers for Hepatic Disorder Diagnosis and Staging	High-throughput, IgG N-Glycopeptides, biomarker, liver disease, parallel reaction monitoring, targeted mass spectrometry	Liver disease is one of the leading causes of global mortality, and identifying biomarkers for diagnosing the progression of liver diseases is crucial for improving its outcomes. Targeted mass spectrometry technology is a powerful tool with unique advantages for verifying biomarker candidates and clinical applications. It is particularly useful in validating protein biomarkers with post-translational modifications, eliminating the need for site-specific antibodies. Especially, targeted mass spectrometry technique is particularly critical for translation of glycoproteins into clinical applications as there are no site-specific antibodies for N-glycosylation. Nevertheless, its limitation in analyzing only one sample per run has become apparent when dealing with a large number of clinical samples. Herein, we developed a high-throughput intact N-glycopeptides quantification strategy with targeted-MS (HTiGQs-Target), which allows the validation of 20 samples per run with an average analysis time of only 3 min per sample. We applied HTiGQs-Target in a cohort of 461 serum samples (including 120 healthy controls (HC), 127 chronic hepatitis B (CHB) cases, 106 liver cirrhosis (LC) cases, and 108 hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) cases) and found that a panel of 10 IgG N-glycopeptides have strong clinical utility in evaluating the severity of the liver disease.
PXD041736	38008782	Label-free quantification of host cell protein impurity in recombinant hemoglobin materials. 	Label-free Quantification of Host-Cell Protein Impurity in a Recombinant Hemoglobin Reference Material	DDA-PASEF, Host-Cell Proteins, Label-free Quantification, Protein Reference Materials	Quantitative analysis relies on pure-substance primary calibrators with known mass fractions of impurity. Here, label-free quantification (LFQ) is being evaluated as a readily available, reliable method for determining the mass fraction of host cell proteins (HCPs) in bioengineered proteins which are intended for use as protein calibration standards. In this study a purified hemoglobin-A2 (HbA2) protein, obtained through its overexpression in E. coli, was used. Two different materials were produced: natural and U(15)N-labeled HbA2. For the quantification of impurities, precursor ion (MS1-) intensities were integrated over all E. coli proteins identified and divided by the intensities obtained for HbA2. This ratio was calibrated against the corresponding results for an E. coli cell lysate, which had been spiked at known mass ratios to pure HbA2. To demonstrate the universal applicability of LFQ, further proteomes (yeast and human K562) were then alternatively used for calibration and found to produce comparable results. Valid results were also obtained when the complexity of the calibrator was reduced to a mix of just nine proteins, and a minimum of five proteins was estimated to be sufficient to keep the sampling error below 15%. For the studied materials, HbA2 mass fractions (or purities) of 923 and 928 mg(HbA2)/g(total protein) were found with expanded uncertainties (U) of 2.8 and 1.3%, resp. Value assignment by LFQ thus contributes up to about 3% of the overall uncertainty of HbA2 quantification when these materials are used as calibrators. Further purification of the natural HbA2 yielded a mass fraction of 999.1 mg/g, with a negligible uncertainty (U = 0.02%), though at a significant loss of material. If an overall uncertainty of 5% is acceptable for protein quantification, working with the original materials would therefore definitely be viable, circumventing the need of further purification.
PXD042902	38009400	Cysteine-free cone snail venom peptides: Classification of precursor proteins and identification of mature peptides. 	Analysis of Conus monile venom duct	Conus monile	The cysteine-free acyclic peptides present in marine cone snail venom have been much less investigated than their disulfide bonded counterparts. Precursor protein sequences derived from transcriptomic data, together with mass spectrometric fragmentation patterns for peptides present in venom duct tissue extracts, permit the identification of mature peptides. Twelve distinct gene superfamiles have been identified with precursor lengths between 64 and 158 residues. In the case of Conus monile, three distinct mature peptides have been identified, arising from two distinct protein precursors. Mature acyclic peptides are often post-translationally modified, with C-terminus amidation, a feature characteristic of neuropeptides. In the present study, 20 acyclic peptides from Conus monile and Conus betulinus were identified. The common modifications of C-terminus amidation, gamma carboxylation of glutamic acid (E to Upsilon), N-terminus conversion of Gln (Q) to a pyroglutamyl residue (Z), and hydroxylation of Pro (P) to Hyp (O) are observed in one or more peptides identified in this study. Proteolytic trimming of sequences by cleavage at the C-terminus of Asn (N) residues is established. The presence of an asparagine endopeptidase is strengthened by the identification of legumain-like sequences in the transcriptome assemblies from diverse Conus species. Such sequences may be expected to have a cleavage specificity at Asn-Xxx peptide bonds.
PXD045801	38009565	A YTHDF-PABP interaction is required for m(6) A-mediated organogenesis in plants. 	A YTHDF-PABP axis is required for m6A-mediated organogenesis in plants	ECT2, Plants, m6A	N6-methyladenosine (m(6) A) in mRNA is key to eukaryotic gene regulation. Many m(6) A functions involve RNA-binding proteins that recognize m(6) A via a YT521-B Homology (YTH) domain. YTH domain proteins contain long intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) that may mediate phase separation and interaction with protein partners, but whose precise biochemical functions remain largely unknown. The Arabidopsis thaliana YTH domain proteins ECT2, ECT3, and ECT4 accelerate organogenesis through stimulation of cell division in organ primordia. Here, we use ECT2 to reveal molecular underpinnings of this function. We show that stimulation of leaf formation requires the long N-terminal IDR, and we identify two short IDR elements required for ECT2-mediated organogenesis. Of these two, a 19-amino acid region containing a tyrosine-rich motif conserved in both plant and metazoan YTHDF proteins is necessary for binding to the major cytoplasmic poly(A)-binding proteins PAB2, PAB4, and PAB8. Remarkably, overexpression of PAB4 in leaf primordia partially rescues the delayed leaf formation in ect2 ect3 ect4 mutants, suggesting that the ECT2-PAB2/4/8 interaction on target mRNAs of organogenesis-related genes may overcome limiting PAB concentrations in primordial cells.
PXD044397	38009700	Adapting an Isobaric Tag-Labeled Yeast Peptide Standard to Develop Targeted Proteomics Assays. 	Adapting an isobaric tag-labeled yeast peptide standard to develop targeted proteomics assays	API, GoDig, TKO, TMT, TMTpro, targeted assay	Targeted proteomics strategies present a streamlined hypothesis-driven approach to analyze specific sets of pathways or disease related proteins. goDig is a quantitative, targeted tandem mass tag (TMT)-based assay that can measure the relative abundance differences for hundreds of proteins directly from unfractionated mixtures. Specific protein groups or entire pathways of up to 200 proteins can be selected for quantitative profiling, while leveraging sample multiplexing permits the simultaneous analysis of up to 18 samples. Despite these benefits, implementing goDig is not without challenges, as it requires access to an instrument application programming interface (iAPI), an elution order and spectral library, a web-based method builder, and dedicated companion software. In addition, the absence of an example test assay may dissuade researchers from testing or implementing goDig. Here, we repurpose the TKO11 standard-which is commercially available but may also be assembled in-lab-and establish it as a de facto test assay for goDig. We build a proteome-wide goDig yeast library, quantify protein expression across several gene ontology (GO) categories, and compare these results to a fully fractionated yeast gold-standard data set. Essentially, we provide a guide detailing the goDig-based quantification of TKO11, which can also be used as a template for user-defined assays in other species.
PXD041870	38011562	PARP7-mediated ADP-ribosylation of FRA1 promotes cancer cell growth by repressing IRF1- and IRF3-dependent apoptosis. 	PARP7-mediated ADP-ribosylation stabilizes FRA1 and restrains IRF3/IRF1-dependent apoptosis and immune signaling and in cancer cells	ADP-ribosylation, FRA1, PARP7, lung cancer	PARP7 was reported to promote tumor growth in a cell-autonomous manner and by repressing the antitumor immune response. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanism of how PARP7-mediated ADP-ribosylation exerts these effects in cancer cells remains elusive. Here, we identified PARP7 as a nuclear and cysteine-specific mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase that modifies targets critical for regulating transcription, including the AP-1 transcription factor FRA1. Loss of FRA1 ADP-ribosylation via PARP7 inhibition by RBN-2397 or mutation of the ADP-ribosylation site C97 increased FRA1 degradation by the proteasome via PSMC3. The reduction in FRA1 protein levels promoted IRF1- and IRF3-dependent cytokine as well as proapoptotic gene expression, culminating in CASP8-mediated apoptosis. Furthermore, high PARP7 expression was indicative of the PARP7 inhibitor response in FRA1-positive lung and breast cancer cells. Collectively, our findings highlight the connected roles of PARP7 and FRA1 and emphasize the clinical potential of PARP7 inhibitors for FRA1-driven cancers.
PXD056584	38014223	Lymphatic platelet thrombosis limits bone repair by precluding lymphatic transporting DAMPs. 	Lymphatic platelet thrombosis limits bone repair by precluding lymphatic transporting DAMPs	LC-MS, Rat thoract duct lymph, fracture	Lymphatic vessels (LVs) interdigitated with blood vessels, travel and form an extensive transport network in the musculoskeletal system. Blood vessels in bone regulate osteogenesis and hematopoiesis, however, whether LVs in bone affect fracture healing is unclear. Here, by near infrared indocyanine green lymphatic imaging (NIR-ICG), we examined lymphatic draining function at the tibial fracture sites and found lymphatic drainage insufficiency (LDI) occurred as early as two weeks after fracture. Sufficient lymphatic drainage facilitates fracture healing. In addition, we identified that lymphatic platelet thrombosis (LPT) blocks the draining lymphoid sinus and LVs, caused LDI and then inhibited fracture healing, which can be rescued by a pharmacological approach. Moreover, unblocked lymphatic drainage decreased neutrophils and increased M2-like macrophages of hematoma niche to support osteoblast (OB) survival and bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC) proliferation via transporting damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). These findings demonstrate that LPT limits bone regeneration by blocking lymphatic drainage from transporting DAMPs. Together, these findings represent a novel way forward in the treatment of bone repair.
PXD044029	38015076	Phosphoproteomic Changes Induced by Cell-Derived Matrix and Their Effect on Tumor Cell Migration and Cytoskeleton Remodeling. 	Phosphoproteomic Changes Induced by Cell-Derived Matrix and Their Effect on Tumor Cell Migration and Cytoskeleton Remodeling	LYN signaling, adhesion, cytoskeleton, extracellular matrix, migration, phosphoproteomics	Increased fibrotic extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition promotes tumor invasion, which is the first step of the metastatic cascade. Yet, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood as conventional studies of tumor cell migration are often performed in 2D cultures lacking the compositional and structural complexity of native ECM. Moreover, these studies frequently focus on select candidate pathways potentially overlooking other relevant changes in cell signaling. Here, we combine a cell-derived matrix (CDM) model with phosphotyrosine phosphoproteomic analysis to investigate tumor cell migration on fibrotic ECM relative to standard tissue culture plastic (TCP). Our results suggest that tumor cells cultured on CDMs migrate faster and in a more directional manner than their counterparts on TCP. These changes in migration correlate with decreased cell spreading and increased cell elongation. While the formation of phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (pFAK)+ adhesion complexes did not vary between TCP and CDMs, time-dependent phosphoproteomic analysis identified that the SRC family kinase LYN may be differentially regulated. Pharmacological inhibition of LYN decreased tumor cell migration and cytoskeletal rearrangement on CDMs and also on TCP, suggesting that LYN regulates tumor cell migration on CDMs in combination with other mechanisms. These data highlight how the combination of physicochemically complex in vitro systems with phosphoproteomics can help identify signaling mechanisms by which the fibrotic ECM regulates tumor cell migration.
PXD044053	38015820	Multicenter Collaborative Study to Optimize Mass Spectrometry Workflows of Clinical Specimens. 	A multi-center collaborative study to optimize mass spectrometry workflows of clinical specimen	CSF, DDA, DIA, LC-MS, Plasma, Round robin study, clinical specimen, inter-laboratory, intra-laboratory	The foundation for integrating mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics into systems medicine is the development of standardized start-to-finish and fit-for-purpose workflows for clinical specimens. An essential step in this pursuit is to highlight the common ground in a diverse landscape of different sample preparation techniques and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) setups. With the aim to benchmark and improve the current best practices among the proteomics MS laboratories of the CLINSPECT-M consortium, we performed two consecutive round-robin studies with full freedom to operate in terms of sample preparation and MS measurements. The six study partners were provided with two clinically relevant sample matrices: plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In the first round, each laboratory applied their current best practice protocol for the respective matrix. Based on the achieved results and following a transparent exchange of all lab-specific protocols within the consortium, each laboratory could advance their methods before measuring the same samples in the second acquisition round. Both time points are compared with respect to identifications (IDs), data completeness, and precision, as well as reproducibility. As a result, the individual performances of participating study centers were improved in the second measurement, emphasizing the effect and importance of the expert-driven exchange of best practices for direct practical improvements.
PXD042733	38015841	Nucleolin binds to and regulates transcription of hepatitis B virus covalently closed circular DNA minichromosome. 	Identification of cellular protein interacting with HBV genome by protein mass spectrometry	HBV cccDNA, mini-chromosome, therapy, transcription	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) remains a major public health threat with nearly 300 million people chronically infected worldwide who are at a high risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma. Current therapies are effective in suppressing HBV replication but rarely lead to cure. Current therapies do not affect the HBV covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA), which serves as the template for viral transcription and replication and is highly stable in infected cells to ensure viral persistence. In this study, we aim to identify and elucidate the functional role of cccDNA-associated host factors using affinity purification and protein mass spectrometry in HBV-infected cells. Nucleolin was identified as a key cccDNA-binding protein and shown to play an important role in HBV cccDNA transcription, likely via epigenetic regulation. Targeting nucleolin to silence cccDNA transcription in infected hepatocytes may be a promising therapeutic strategy for a functional cure of HBV.
PXD047487	38016335	A novel capsid-XL32-derived adeno-associated virus serotype prompts retinal tropism and ameliorates choroidal neovascularization. 	A novel capsid-XL32-derived adeno-associated virus serotype prompts retinal tropism and ameliorates choroidal neovascularization	AAVXL32	Gene therapy has been adapted, from the laboratory to the clinic, to treat retinopathies. In contrast to subretinal route, intravitreal delivery of AAV vectors displays the advantage of bypassing surgical injuries, but the viral particles are more prone to be nullified by the host neutralizing factors. To minimize such suppression of therapeutic effect, especially in terms of AAV2 and its derivatives, we introduced three serine-to-glycine mutations, based on the phosphorylation sites identified by mass spectrum analysis, to the XL32 capsid to generate a novel serotype named AAVYC5. Via intravitreal administration, AAVYC5 was transduced more effectively into multiple retinal layers compared with AAV2 and XL32. AAVYC5 also enabled successful delivery of anti-angiogenic molecules to rescue laser-induced choroidal neovascularization and astrogliosis in mice and non-human primates. Furthermore, we detected fewer neutralizing antibodies and binding IgG in human sera against AAVYC5 than those specific for AAV2 and XL32. Our results thus implicate this capsid-optimized AAVYC5 as a promising vector suitable for a wide population, particularly those with undesirable AAV2 seroreactivity.
PXD046040	38016942	INPP5D regulates inflammasome activation in human microglia. 	INPP5D regulates inflammasome activation in human microglia	Alzheimers, INPP5D	Microglia and neuroinflammation play an important role in the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase D (INPP5D/SHIP1) is a myeloid-expressed gene genetically-associated with AD. Through unbiased analyses of RNA and protein profiles in INPP5D-disrupted iPSC-derived human microglia, we find that reduction in INPP5D activity is associated with molecular profiles consistent with disrupted autophagy and inflammasome activation. These findings are validated through targeted pharmacological experiments which demonstrate that reduced INPP5D activity induces the formation of the NLRP3 inflammasome, cleavage of CASP1, and secretion of IL-1beta and IL-18. Further, in-depth analyses of human brain tissue across hundreds of individuals using a multi-analytic approach provides evidence that a reduction in function of INPP5D in microglia results in inflammasome activation in AD. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying microglia-mediated processes in AD and highlight the inflammasome as a potential therapeutic target for modulating INPP5D-mediated vulnerability to AD.
PXD043061	38017409	Identification and characterization of ARID1A-interacting proteins in renal tubular cells and their molecular regulation of angiogenesis. 	Identification and characterization of ARID1A-interacting proteins in renal tubular cells and their molecular regulation of angiogenesis	Actin, Endothelial cells, Interacting proteins, Renal cancer, Renal epithelial cells, Tumor suppressor	BACKGROUND: Defects and deficiency of AT-rich interactive domain-containing protein 1A (ARID1A) encoded by a tumor suppressor gene ARID1A have recently been suggested to get involved in angiogenesis, a crucial process in carcinogenesis. However, molecular mechanisms of ARID1A deficiency to induce angiogenesis in kidney cancer remain underinvestigated. METHODS: We performed large-scale identification of ARID1A protein interactors in renal tubular epithelial cells (RTECs) using immunoprecipitation (IP) followed by nanoLC-ESI-LTQ-Orbitrap tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Their roles in angiogenesis were investigated using various assays. RESULTS: A total of 74 ARID1A-interacting proteins were identified. Protein-protein interactions analysis revealed that these identified proteins interacted directly or indirectly with ARID1A. Among them, the direct interaction between ARID1A and beta-actin was validated by IP and reciprocal IP followed by Western blotting. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) was used for single and double knockdowns of ARID1A and ACTB. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated that deficiency of ARID1A, but not ACTB, significantly affected expression of angiogenesis-related genes in RTECs (VEGF and FGF2 were increased, whereas PDGF and EGF were decreased). However, the knockdowns did not affect TGFB1 and FGF1 levels. The quantitative mRNA expression data of VEGF and TGFB1 were consistent with the secreted levels of their protein products as measured by ELISA. Only secreted products derived from ARID1A-deficient RTECs significantly increased endothelial cells (ECs) migration and tube formation. Some of the other carcinogenic features could also be confirmed in the ARID1A-deficient RTECs, including increased cell migration and chemoresistance. Double knockdowns of both ARID1A and ACTB did not enhance the effects of single ARID1A knockdown in all assays. CONCLUSIONS: We report herein a large dataset of the ARID1A-interacting proteins in RTECs using an IP-MS/MS approach and confirm the direct interaction between ARID1A and beta-actin. However, the role of ARID1A deficiency in angiogenesis is independent of beta-actin.
PXD045177	38018467	Ganglioside GM3 Protects Against Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm by Suppressing Ferroptosis in Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells. 	The ganglioside GM3 protects against abdominal aortic  aneurysm by suppressing ferroptosis in vascular smooth muscle cells	Sphingolipids, abdominal aortic aneurysm, ferroptosis, gangliosides GM3, smooth muscle cell	BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a potentially life-threatening vascular condition, but approved medical therapies to prevent AAA progression and rupture are currently lacking. Sphingolipid metabolism disorders are associated with the occurrence and development of AAA. It has been discovered that ganglioside GM3, a sialic acid-containing type of glycosphingolipid, plays a protective role in atherosclerosis, which is an important risk factor for AAA; however, the potential contribution of GM3 to AAA development has not been investigated. METHODS: We performed a metabolomics study to evaluated GM3 level in plasma of human patients with AAA. We profiled GM3 synthase (ST3GAL5) expression in the mouse model of aneurysm and human AAA tissues through Western blotting and immunofluorescence staining. RNA sequencing, affinity purification and mass spectrometry, proteomic analysis, surface plasmon resonance analysis, and functional studies were used to dissect the molecular mechanism of GM3-regulating ferroptosis. We conditionally deleted and overexpressed St3gal5 in smooth muscle cells (SMCs) in vivo to investigate its role in AAA. RESULTS: We found significantly reduced plasma levels of GM3 in human patients with AAA. GM3 content and ST3GAL5 expression were decreased in abdominal aortic vascular SMCs in patients with AAA and an AAA mouse model. RNA sequencing analysis showed that ST3GAL5 silencing in human aortic SMCs induced ferroptosis. We showed that GM3 interacted directly with the extracellular domain of TFR1 (transferrin receptor 1), a cell membrane protein critical for cellular iron uptake, and disrupted its interaction with holo-transferrin. SMC-specific St3gal5 knockout exacerbated iron accumulation at lesion sites and significantly promoted AAA development in mice, whereas GM3 supplementation suppressed lipid peroxidation, reduced iron deposition in aortic vascular SMCs, and markedly decreased AAA incidence. CONCLUSIONS: Together, these results suggest that GM3 dysregulation promotes ferroptosis of vascular SMCs in AAA. Furthermore, GM3 may constitute a new therapeutic target for AAA.
PXD046824	38019609	Effects of phosphorylation on Drp1 activation by its receptors, actin, and cardiolipin. 	Identification of phosphorylation sites on purified recombinant protein Dynamin-like protein 1	Drp1-S579, Drp1-S600, mitochondria, phosphorylation	Drp1 is a dynamin family GTPase required for mitochondrial and peroxisomal division. Oligomerization increases Drp1 GTPase activity through interactions between neighboring GTPase domains. In cells, Drp1 is regulated by several factors including Drp1 receptors, actin filaments, cardiolipin, and phosphorylation at two sites: S579 and S600. Commonly, phosphorylation of S579 is considered activating, while S600 phosphorylation is considered inhibiting. However, direct effects of phosphorylation on Drp1 GTPase activity have not been investigated in detail. Here, we compare effects of S579 and S600 phosphorylation on purified Drp1, using phospho-mimetic mutants and in vitro phosphorylation. Both phospho-mimetic mutants are shifted toward smaller oligomers. Both phospho-mimetic mutations maintain basal GTPase activity, but eliminate GTPase stimulation by actin and decrease GTPase stimulation by cardiolipin, Mff, and MiD49. Phosphorylation of S579 by Erk2 produces similar effects. When mixed with wildtype Drp1, both S579D and S600D phospho-mimetic mutants reduce the actin-stimulated GTPase activity of Drp1-WT. Conversely, a Drp1 mutant (K38A) lacking GTPase activity stimulates Drp1-WT GTPase activity under both basal and actin-stimulated conditions. These results suggest that the effect of S579 phosphorylation is not to activate Drp1 directly. In addition, our results suggest that nearest neighbor interactions within the Drp1 oligomer affect catalytic activity.
PXD036770	38019906	GTF2I dosage regulates neuronal differentiation and social behavior in 7q11.23 neurodevelopmental disorders. 	GTF2I dosage regulates neuronal differentiation and social behavior in 7q11.23 neurodevelopmental disorders	GTF2I, autism, neurodevelopment, organoids, sociability, transcriptomics	Copy number variations at 7q11.23 cause neurodevelopmental disorders with shared and opposite manifestations. Deletion causes Williams-Beuren syndrome featuring hypersociability, while duplication causes 7q11.23 microduplication syndrome (7Dup), frequently exhibiting autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Converging evidence indicates GTF2I as key mediator of the cognitive-behavioral phenotypes, yet its role in cortical development and behavioral hallmarks remains largely unknown. We integrated proteomic and transcriptomic profiling of patient-derived cortical organoids, including longitudinally at single-cell resolution, to dissect 7q11.23 dosage-dependent and GTF2I-specific disease mechanisms. We observed dosage-dependent impaired dynamics of neural progenitor proliferation, transcriptional imbalances, and highly specific alterations in neuronal output, leading to precocious excitatory neuron production in 7Dup, which was rescued by restoring physiological GTF2I levels. Transgenic mice with Gtf2i duplication recapitulated progenitor proliferation and neuronal differentiation defects alongside ASD-like behaviors. Consistently, inhibition of lysine demethylase 1 (LSD1), a GTF2I effector, was sufficient to rescue ASD-like phenotypes in transgenic mice, establishing GTF2I-LSD1 axis as a molecular pathway amenable to therapeutic intervention in ASD.
PXD005169	38022636	Profound N-glycan remodelling accompanies MHC-II immunopeptide presentation. 	Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection Manipulates the Glycosylation Machinery and the N-Glycoproteome of Human Macrophages and their Microparticles	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, N-glycosylation, exoglycosidase, glycomics, glycoprofiling, glycoproteome, macrophage, microparticle, tuberculosis	Immunopeptidomics, the study of peptide antigens presented on the cell surface by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), offers insights into how our immune system recognises self/non-self in health and disease. We recently discovered that hyper-processed (remodelled) N-glycans are dominant features decorating viral spike immunopeptides presented via MHC-class II (MHC-II) molecules by dendritic cells pulsed with SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, but it remains unknown if endogenous immunopeptides also undergo N-glycan remodelling. Taking a multi-omics approach, we here interrogate published MHC-II immunopeptidomics datasets of cultured monocyte-like (THP-1) and breast cancer-derived (MDA-MB-231) cell lines for overlooked N-glycosylated peptide antigens, which we compare to their source proteins in the cellular glycoproteome using proteomics and N-glycomics data from matching cell lines. Hyper-processed chitobiose core and paucimannosidic N-glycans alongside under-processed oligomannosidic N-glycans were found to prevalently modify MHC-II-bound immunopeptides isolated from both THP-1 and MDA-MB-231, while complex/hybrid-type N-glycans were (near-)absent in the immunopeptidome as supported further by new N-glycomics data generated from isolated MHC-II-bound peptides derived from MDA-MB-231 cells. Contrastingly, the cellular proteomics and N-glycomics data from both cell lines revealed conventional N-glycosylation rich in complex/hybrid-type N-glycans, which, together with the identification of key lysosomal glycosidases, suggest that MHC-II peptide antigen processing is accompanied by extensive N-glycan trimming. N-glycan remodelling appeared particularly dramatic for cell surface-located glycoproteins while less remodelling was observed for lysosomal-resident glycoproteins. Collectively, our findings indicate that both under- and hyper-processed N-glycans are prevalent features of endogenous MHC-II immunopeptides, an observation that demands further investigation to enable a better molecular-level understanding of immune surveillance.
PXD046369	38022651	Serum protein biomarkers for HCC risk prediction in HIV/HBV co-infected people: a clinical proteomic study using mass spectrometry. 	A study based on proteomic analysis	HCC, acute HIV infection, glucose metabolism, liver cirrhosis	Background: HBV coinfection is frequent in people living with HIV (PLWH) and is the leading cause of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). While risk prediction methods for HCC in patients with HBV monoinfection have been proposed, suitable biomarkers for early diagnosis of HCC in PLWH remain uncommon. Methods: Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to examine serum protein alterations in HCC and non-HCC patients with HIV and HBV co-infection. Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Disease Ontology (DO) enrichment analysis were performed on the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). The risk prediction model was created using five-cross-validation and LASSO regression to filter core DEPs. Results: A total of 124 DEPs were discovered, with 95 proteins up-regulated and 29 proteins down-regulated. Extracellular matrix organization and membrane component were the DEPs that were most abundant in the categories of biological processes (BP) and cellular components (CC). Proteoglycans in cancer were one of the top three DEPs primarily enriched in the KEGG pathway, and 60.0% of DEPs were linked to various neoplasms in terms of DO enrichment. Eleven proteins, including GAPR1, PLTP, CLASP2, IGHV1-69D, IGLV5-45, A2M, VNN1, KLK11, ANPEP, DPP4 and HYI, were chosen as the core DEPs, and a nomogram was created to predict HCC risk. Conclusion: In HIV/HBV patients with HCC, several differential proteins can be detected in plasma by mass spectrometry, which can be used as screening markers for early diagnosis and risk prediction of HCC. Monitoring protease expression differences can help in the diagnosis and prognosis of HCC.
PXD046225	38024365	Metagenomic and metaproteomic analyses of microbial amino acid metabolism during Cantonese soy sauce fermentation. 	Metagenomic and metaproteomic analyses of microbial amino acid metabolism during Cantonese soy sauce fermentation	metaproteomic,microbial amino acid metabolism,Cantonese soy sauce	Cantonese soy sauce is an important type of traditional Chinese brewed soy sauce that was developed in southern China, mainly in Guangdong. Due to the long fermentation period and complex microbiota in Cantonese soy sauce, there are few reports on the microbial metaproteomics of Cantonese soy sauce. In this study, integrative metagenomic and metaproteomic analyzes were used to identify the changes in the dominant microbiota and amino acid synthesis-related enzymes and metabolism during Cantonese soy sauce fermentation. Metagenomic analysis revealed that Tetragenococcus halophilus, Weissella confusa, Weissella paramesenteroides, Enterobacter hormaechei, and Aspergillus oryzae were the dominant microbiota. Using the Top 15 dominant microbiota identified by metagenomics as the database, LTQ Orbitrap Velos Pro ETD mass spectrometry was used to obtain metaproteomic information about the microbes in the soy sauce, and the results indicated that the active enzymes involved in the metabolism of amino acids were secreted by microorganisms such as A. oryzae, T. halophilus, and Zygosaccharomyces rouxii. During the Cantonese soy sauce fermentation process. Among them, early fermentation (0-15d) was dominated by A. oryzae and T. halophilus, mid-term fermentation (60-90d) was dominated by Z. rouxii, A. oryzae, and T. halophilus, and late fermentation (90-120d) was dominated by A. oryzae, Z. rouxii, and T. halophilus. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis revealed that the main enzymes involved in the metabolism of umami amino acids were aspartate aminotransferase, citrate synthase, aconitase, and isocitrate dehydrogenase, which were produced by Z. rouxii and A. oryzae during early fermentation (0-15 d) and the middle fermentation stage (60-90 d). This study constructed a regulatory network of enzymes potentially involved in the metabolism of flavor amino acids, which provided a theoretical basis for studying the amino acid metabolism of Cantonese soy sauce.
PXD043700	38025260	Impaired synaptic incorporation of AMPA receptors in a mouse model of fragile X syndrome. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of synaptic proteome of adult Fmr1 KO and wild-type mice.	Fmr1 KO mice, brain, synaptoneurosomes	Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common monogenetic cause of inherited intellectual disability and autism in humans. One of the well-characterized molecular phenotypes of Fmr1 KO mice, a model of FXS, is increased translation of synaptic proteins. Although this upregulation stabilizes in adulthood, abnormalities during the critical period of plasticity have long-term effects on circuit formation and synaptic properties. Using high-resolution quantitative proteomics of synaptoneurosomes isolated from the adult, developed brains of Fmr1 KO mice, we show a differential abundance of proteins regulating the postsynaptic receptor activity of glutamatergic synapses. We investigated the AMPA receptor composition and shuttling in adult Fmr1 KO and WT mice using a variety of complementary experimental strategies such as surface protein crosslinking, immunostaining of surface receptors, and electrophysiology. We discovered that the activity-dependent synaptic delivery of AMPARs is impaired in adult Fmr1 KO mice. Furthermore, we show that Fmr1 KO synaptic AMPARs contain more GluA2 subunits that can be interpreted as a switch in the synaptic AMPAR subtype toward an increased number of Ca(2+-)impermeable receptors in adult Fmr1 KO synapses.
PXD040353	38026167	O-GlcNAcylation regulates OTX2's proteostasis. 	O-GlcNAcylation and chaperonin CCT5 protect OTX2 from aggregation in medulloblastoma cellsO-GlcNAcylation andanalysis of OTX2 O-GlcNac sites and dependent interactions	EtHCD-MS, O-GlcNAc, OTX2, interactome	O-GlcNAcylation is a key post-translational modification, playing a vital role in cell signaling during development, especially in the brain. In this study, we investigated the role of O-GlcNAcylation in regulating the homeobox protein OTX2, which contributes to various brain disorders, such as combined pituitary hormone deficiency, retinopathy, and medulloblastoma. Our research demonstrated that, under normal physiological conditions, the proteasome plays a pivotal role in breaking down endogenous OTX2. However, when the levels of OTX2 rise, it forms oligomers and/or aggregates that require macroautophagy for clearance. Intriguingly, we demonstrated that O-GlcNAcylation enhances the solubility of OTX2, thereby limiting the formation of these aggregates. Additionally, we unveiled an interaction between OTX2 and the chaperone protein CCT5 at the O-GlcNAc sites, suggesting a potential collaborative role in preventing OTX2 aggregation. Finally, our study demonstrated that while OTX2 physiologically promotes cell proliferation, an O-GlcNAc-depleted OTX2 is detrimental to cancer cells.
PXD045944	38026208	WIPF1 promotes gastric cancer progression by regulating PI3K/Akt signaling in a myocardin-dependent manner. 	WIPF1 promotes gastric cancer progression by regulating PI3K/Akt signaling in a myocardin-dependent manner	WIPF1, gastric cancer, myocardin-dependent	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein-interacting protein family member 1 (WIPF1) is associated with malignant tumor progression. However, molecular links between WIPF1 and gastric cancer (GC) remain elusive. The expression of WIPF1 was detected in GC tissues and cells. WIPF1 was overexpressed in GC tissues and cells and high expression of WIPF1 was an independent risk factor for a poor prognosis in patients with GC. Further experiments indicated that WIPF1 promoted the proliferation, invasion, and migration of GC cells in vivo and in vitro. WIPF1-regulated genes were closely related to cell proliferation and migration in GC, and silencing WIPF1 significantly repressed PI3K/AKT signaling pathway activation. WIPF1 was activated by myocardin (MYOCD) translation. Rescue experiments confirmed that MYOCD promotes the proliferation, invasion, and migration of GC cells in a WIPF1-dependent manner and activates the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. MYOCD may transactivate WIPF1 and facilitate GC cell growth and metastasis by activating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
PXD040444	38026225	Guanylate-binding protein 1 modulates proteasomal machinery in ovarian cancer. 	Genetically modified ID8 cells to study the role of GBP1 in ovarian cancer	CETSA, GBP1, knockdown, ovarian cancer, overexpression	Guanylate-binding protein 1 (GBP1) is known as an interferon-gamma-induced GTPase. Here, we used genetically modified ovarian cancer (OC) cells to study the role of GBP1. The data generated show that GBP1 inhibition constrains the clonogenic potential of cancer cells. In vivo studies revealed that GBP1 overexpression in tumors promotes tumor progression and reduces median survival, whereas GBP1 inhibition delayed tumor progression with longer median survival. We employed proteomics-based thermal stability assay (CETSA) on GBP1 knockdown and overexpressed OC cells to study its molecular functions. CETSA results show that GBP1 interacts with many members of the proteasome. Furthermore, GBP1 inhibition sensitizes OC cells to paclitaxel treatment via accumulated ubiquitinylated proteins where GBP1 inhibition decreases the overall proteasomal activity. In contrast, GBP1-overexpressing cells acquired paclitaxel resistance via boosted cellular proteasomal activity. Overall, these studies expand the role of GBP1 in the activation of proteasomal machinery to acquire chemoresistance.
PXD042310	38029181	Response of a new rumen-derived Bacillus licheniformis to different carbon sources. 	Integrative Analysis of Transcriptome and Proteome for a new Rumen-derived Bacillus Licheniform in regulating microenvrionment Treating with Different Carbon Sources	Bacillus licheniformis, cows rumen fluid, different carbon sources, transcriptome	Introduction: Bacillus licheniformis (B. licheniformis) is a microorganism with a wide range of probiotic properties and applications. Isolation and identification of novel strains is a major aspect of microbial research. Besides, different carbon sources have varying effects on B. licheniformis in regulating the microenvironment, and these mechanisms need to be investigated further. Methods: In this study, we isolated and identified a new strain of B. licheniformis from bovine rumen fluid and named it B. licheniformis NXU98. The strain was treated with two distinct carbon sources-microcrystalline cellulose (MC) and cellobiose (CB). A combination of transcriptome and proteome analyses was used to investigate different carbon source effects. Results: The results showed that B. licheniformis NXU98 ABC transporter proteins, antibiotic synthesis, flagellar assembly, cellulase-related pathways, and proteins were significantly upregulated in the MC treatment compared to the CB treatment, and lactate metabolism was inhibited. In addition, we used MC as a distinct carbon source to enhance the antibacterial ability of B. licheniformis NXU98, to improve its disease resistance, and to regulate the rumen microenvironment. Discussion: Our research provides a potential new probiotic for feed research and a theoretical basis for investigating the mechanisms by which bacteria respond to different carbon sources.
PXD040738	38029200	Unveiling the inhibition mechanism of Clostridioides difficile by Bifidobacterium longum via multiomics approach. 	Unveiling the inhibition mechanism of Clostridioides difficile by Bifidobacterium longum via multiomics approach	Bifidobacterium longum, Clostridioides difficile, Metabolomics, Microbe-microbe interaction, Molecular mechanism.	Antibiotic-induced gut microbiota disruption constitutes a major risk factor for Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI). Further, antibiotic therapy, which is the standard treatment option for CDI, exacerbates gut microbiota imbalance, thereby causing high recurrent CDI incidence. Consequently, probiotic-based CDI treatment has emerged as a long-term management and preventive option. However, the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of probiotics for CDI remain uninvestigated, thereby creating a knowledge gap that needs to be addressed. To fill this gap, we used a multiomics approach to holistically investigate the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of probiotics for CDI at a molecular level. We first screened Bifidobacterium longum owing to its inhibitory effect on C. difficile growth, then observed the physiological changes associated with the inhibition of C. difficile growth and toxin production via a multiomics approach. Regarding the mechanism underlying C. difficile growth inhibition, we detected a decrease in intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis due to B. longum-produced lactate and a subsequent decrease in (deoxy)ribonucleoside triphosphate synthesis. Via the differential regulation of proteins involved in translation and protein quality control, we identified B. longum-induced proteinaceous stress. Finally, we found that B. longum suppressed the toxin production of C. difficile by replenishing proline consumed by it. Overall, the findings of the present study expand our understanding of the mechanisms by which probiotics inhibit C. difficile growth and contribute to the development of live biotherapeutic products based on molecular mechanisms for treating CDI.
PXD046678	38029258	Integrative proteomic and metabonomic profiling elucidates amino acid and lipid metabolism disorder in CA-MRSA-infected breast abscesses. 	Integrative proteomic and metabonomic profiling elucidate amino acid and lipid metabolism disorder in CA-MRSA infected human breast abscesses	Breast, Pus	Objective: Bacterial culture and drug sensitivity testing have been the gold standard for confirming community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) infection in breast abscess with a long history. However, these tests may delay treatment and increase the risk of nosocomial infections. To handle and improve this critical situation, this study aimed to explore biomarkers that could facilitate the rapid diagnosis of CA-MRSA infection. Methods: This study for the first time applied label-free quantitative proteomics and non-targeted metabonomics to identify potential differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) in breast abscess infected with CA-MRSA compared to methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA). The two omics data were integrated and analyzed using bioinformatics, and the results were validated using Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated to evaluate the predictive efficiency of the identified biomarkers for diagnosing CA-MRSA infection. Results: After using the above-mentioned strategies, 109 DEPs were identified, out of which 86 were upregulated and 23 were downregulated. Additionally, a total of 61 and 26 DEMs were initially screened in the positive and negative ion modes, respectively. A conjoint analysis indicated that the amino acid metabolism, glycosphingolipid biosynthesis, and glycerophospholipid metabolism pathways were co-enriched by the upstream DEPs and downstream DEMs, which may be involved in structuring the related network of CA-MRSA infection. Furthermore, three significant DEMs, namely, indole-3-acetic acid, L-(-)-methionine, and D-sedoheptulose 7-phosphate, displayed good discriminative abilities in early identification of CA-MRSA infection in ROC analysis. Conclusion: As there is limited high-quality evidence and multiple omics research in this field, the explored candidate biomarkers and pathways may provide new insights into the early diagnosis and drug resistance mechanisms of CA-MRSA infection in Chinese women.
PXD045955	38029268	Comparative proteome analysis revealed the differences in response to both Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium bovis infection of bovine alveolar macrophages. 	Comparative proteome analysis revealed the differences in response to  both M.tb and Mb infection of bovine alveolar macrophages	Autophagy, Bovine tuberculosis, Inflammatory response, Resistance mechanism	Tuberculosis (TB), attributed to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, is one of the most serious zoonotic diseases worldwide. Nevertheless, the host mechanisms preferentially leveraged by Mycobacterium remain unclear. After infection, both Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) and Mycobacterium bovis (MB) bacteria exhibit intimate interactions with host alveolar macrophages; however, the specific mechanisms underlying these macrophage responses remain ambiguous. In our study, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis of bovine alveolar macrophages (BAMs) infected with MTB or MB to elucidate the differential responses of BAMs to each pathogen at the protein level. Our findings revealed heightened TB infection susceptibility of BAMs that had been previously infected with MTB or MB. Moreover, we observed that both types of mycobacteria triggered significant changes in BAM energy metabolism. A variety of proteins and signalling pathways associated with autophagy and inflammation-related progression were highly activated in BAMs following MB infection. Additionally, proteins linked to energy metabolism were highly expressed in BAMs following MTB infection. In summary, we propose that BAMs may resist MTB and MB infections via different mechanisms. Our findings provide critical insights into TB pathogenesis, unveiling potential biomarkers to facilitate more effective TB treatment strategies. Additionally, our data lend support to the hypothesis that MTB may be transmitted via cross-species infection.
PXD043855	38030186	Disclosing Potential Therapeutic Targets Associated With Osimertinib Resistance in the Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Cell Line H1975. 	Disclosing potential therapeutic targets associated with Osimertinib resistance in non-small cell lung cancer cell line H1975	H1975/OSI, NSCLC, Osimertinib, omics analysis, resistant	BACKGROUND/AIM: Osimertinib, a third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is a highly effective and valuable treatment option for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with EGFR mutations, such as T790M. However, acquired resistance ultimately limits its clinical application. In this study, we aimed to identify potential targets for overcoming osimertinib resistance. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The H1975/OSI cell line was induced in vitro through intermittent induction. Cell activity was measured using a cell counting kit-8 assay. Uni-omics and multi-omics analyses were conducted on the transcriptomic and proteomic (4D label-free) expression profiles, which involved differential expression analysis, GO functional annotation and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis, as well as correlation analysis of transcription factors and PPI network. RESULTS: H1975/OSI cells showed resistance towards osimertinib with IC50 values approximately 5.25-fold higher than H1975 cells. A total of 2519 genes were found to be differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 1533 proteins were found to be differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). Furthermore, 147 genes that were differentially expressed at both the transcription and protein levels (TPGs) were identified as being differentially expressed in both the transcriptome and proteome. It was revealed that many pathways related to the structure and function of ribosomes, as well as metabolites, were altered. The highest connectivity genes of 147 TPGs included NOP56, DDX21, PDCD11, CCNB1, and TOP2A. The hub genes of the transcriptional regulatory network included DDX21, KPNA2, DDX5, BRCA1, LMNB1, and HIF1A. CONCLUSION: Collectively, our high-throughput analysis uncovered functional properties that interacted with gene signatures of H1975/OSI cells, and highlighted certain pathways and eleven hub genes that may be the potential targets for improving clinical osimertinib resistance.
PXD044471	38030596	HDAC8-mediated inhibition of EP300 drives a transcriptional state that increases melanoma brain metastasis. 	HDAC8-mediated inhibition of EP300 drives a transcriptional state that increases melanoma brain metastasis	Acetylation, Brain Metastasis, HDAC8, Melanoma	Melanomas can adopt multiple transcriptional states. Little is known about the epigenetic drivers of these cell states, limiting our ability to regulate melanoma heterogeneity. Here, we identify stress-induced HDAC8 activity as driving melanoma brain metastasis development. Exposure of melanocytes and melanoma cells to multiple stresses increases HDAC8 activation leading to a neural crest-stem cell transcriptional state and an amoeboid, invasive phenotype that increases seeding to the brain. Using ATAC-Seq and ChIP-Seq we show that increased HDAC8 activity alters chromatin structure by increasing H3K27ac and enhancing accessibility at c-Jun binding sites. Functionally, HDAC8 deacetylates the histone acetyltransferase EP300, causing its enzymatic inactivation. This, in turn, increases binding of EP300 to Jun-transcriptional sites and decreases binding to MITF-transcriptional sites. Inhibition of EP300 increases melanoma cell invasion, resistance to stress and increases melanoma brain metastasis development. HDAC8 is identified as a mediator of transcriptional co-factor inactivation and chromatin accessibility that drives brain metastasis.
PXD036045	38030636	A click chemistry-mediated all-peptide cell printing hydrogel platform for diabetic wound healing. 	Effects of 3D printing HUVEC(vefg165+) -laden hydrogel on diabetic wound healing	HUVEC(vefg165+) lentivirus overexpression, bioprinting, diabetic wound healing, hydrogel	High glucose-induced vascular endothelial injury is a major pathological factor involved in non-healing diabetic wounds. To interrupt this pathological process, we design an all-peptide printable hydrogel platform based on highly efficient and precise one-step click chemistry of thiolated gamma-polyglutamic acid, glycidyl methacrylate-conjugated gamma-polyglutamic acid, and thiolated arginine-glycine-aspartate sequences. Vascular endothelial growth factor 165-overexpressed human umbilical vein endothelial cells are printed using this platform, hence fabricating a living material with high cell viability and precise cell spatial distribution control. This cell-laden hydrogel platform accelerates the diabetic wound healing of rats based on the unabated vascular endothelial growth factor 165 release, which promotes angiogenesis and alleviates damages on vascular endothelial mitochondria, thereby reducing tissue hypoxia, downregulating inflammation, and facilitating extracellular matrix remodeling. Together, this study offers a promising strategy for fabricating tissue-friendly, high-efficient, and accurate 3D printed all-peptide hydrogel platform for cell delivery and self-renewable growth factor therapy.
PXD045045	38030709	C1QA and COMP: plasma-based biomarkers for early diagnosis of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. 	LC-MS of Human Blood of Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors	LC-MS, Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, Plasma	Pancreatic Neuroendocrine tumors (PanNET) are challenging to diagnose and often detected at advanced stages due to a lack of specific and sensitive biomarkers. This study utilized proteomics as a valuable approach for cancer biomarker discovery; therefore, mass spectrometry-based proteomic profiling was conducted on plasma samples from 12 subjects (3 controls; 5 Grade I, 4 Grade II PanNET patients) to identify potential proteins capable of effectively distinguishing PanNET from healthy controls. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD045045. 13.2% of proteins were uniquely identified in PanNET, while 60% were commonly expressed in PanNET and controls. 17 proteins exhibiting significant differential expression between PanNET and controls were identified with downstream analysis. Further, 5 proteins (C1QA, COMP, HSP90B1, ITGA2B, and FN1) were selected by pathway analysis and were validated using Western blot analysis. Significant downregulation of C1QA (p = 0.001: within groups, 0.03: control vs. grade I, 0.0013: grade I vs. grade II) and COMP (p = 0.011: within groups, 0.019: control vs grade I) were observed in PanNET Grade I & II than in controls. Subsequently, ELISA on 38 samples revealed significant downregulation of C1QA and COMP with increasing disease severity. This study shows the potential of C1QA and COMP in the early detection of PanNET, highlighting their role in the search for early-stage (Grade-I and Grade-II) diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets for PanNET.
PXD046145	38031139	EZH2 K63-polyubiquitination affecting migration in extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma. 	E3 ligase TRIP12 affecting EZH2 ubiquitination in ENKTL	E3 ligase, EZH2, lymphoma	BACKGROUND: Overexpressed EZH2 is oncogenically involved in the pathogenesis of different cancerous contexts including extranodal natural killer/T cell lymphoma (ENKTL). However, the underlying mechanisms of EZH2 upregulation have not been fully clarified and it is still difficult to target EZH2 in ENKTL. RESULTS: Current study identifies an E3 ligase TRIP12 that triggers K63-linked polyubiquitination of EZH2 in ENKTL and unexpectedly, stabilizes EZH2. As determined by gene expression profiling (GEP), TRIP12 and EZH2 levels correlate with each other in ENKTL patient samples. Aided by quantitative mass spectrometry (MS) and follow-up analysis, we identify K634 as the ubiquitination site of EZH2. Further study confirms that TRIP12-mediated EZH2 K634 ubiquitination enhances the interaction between EZH2 and SUZ12 or CDK1 and increases the level of EZH2 T487 phosphorylation. This study further demonstrates the TRIP12-EZH2 signaling might be regulated by cytoplasmic HSP60. Importantly, the TRIP12-EZH2 axis mediates ENKTL cell migration via accelerating epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Moreover, our study finds out dexamethasone treatment manipulates TRIP12-EZH2 signaling and may represent a novel therapeutic strategy against ENKTL metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, TRIP12 induces K63-linked site-specific polyubiquitination of EZH2 for stabilization, which promotes ENKTL cell migration and could be targeted by dexamethasone treatment.
PXD040814	38031171	Unveiling the role of osteosarcoma-derived secretome in premetastatic lung remodelling. 	Osteosarcoma cells-derived secretome induce pre-metastatic changes in the lung microenvironment that support lung metastasis formation	lung metastasis, osteosarcoma, premetastatic niche, secretome, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Lung metastasis is the most adverse clinical factor and remains the leading cause of osteosarcoma-related death. Deciphering the mechanisms driving metastatic spread is crucial for finding open therapeutic windows for successful organ-specific interventions that may halt or prevent lung metastasis. METHODS: We employed a mouse premetastatic lung-based multi-omics integrative approach combined with clinical features to uncover the specific changes that precede lung metastasis formation and identify novel molecular targets and biomarker of clinical utility that enable the design of novel therapeutic strategies. RESULTS: We found that osteosarcoma-bearing mice or those preconditioned with the osteosarcoma cell secretome harbour profound lung structural alterations with airway damage, inflammation, neutrophil infiltration, and extracellular matrix remodelling with increased deposition of fibronectin and collagens by resident stromal activated fibroblasts, favouring the adhesion of disseminated tumour cells. Systemic-induced microenvironmental changes, supported by transcriptomic and histological data, promoted and accelerated lung metastasis formation. Comparative proteome profiling of the cell secretome and mouse plasma identified a large number of proteins involved in extracellular-matrix organization, cell-matrix adhesion, neutrophil degranulation, and cytokine-mediated signalling, consistent with the observed lung microenvironmental changes. Moreover, we identified EFEMP1, an extracellular matrix glycoprotein exclusively secreted by metastatic cells, in the plasma of mice bearing a primary tumour and in biopsy specimens from osteosarcoma patients with poorer overall survival. Depletion of EFEMP1 from the secretome prevents the formation of lung metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: Integration of our data uncovers neutrophil infiltration and the functional contribution of stromal-activated fibroblasts in ECM remodelling for tumour cell attachment as early pro-metastatic events, which may hold therapeutic potential in preventing or slowing the metastatic spread. Moreover, we identified EFEMP1, a secreted glycoprotein, as a metastatic driver and a potential candidate prognostic biomarker for lung metastasis in osteosarcoma patients. Osteosarcoma-derived secreted factors systemically reprogrammed the lung microenvironment and fostered a growth-permissive niche for incoming disseminated cells to survive and outgrow into overt metastasis. Daily administration of osteosarcoma cell secretome mimics the systemic release of tumour-secreted factors of a growing tumour in mice during PMN formation; Transcriptomic and histological analysis of premetastatic lungs revealed inflammatory-induced stromal fibroblast activation, neutrophil infiltration, and ECM remodelling as early onset pro-metastatic events; Proteome profiling identified EFEMP1, an extracellular secreted glycoprotein, as a potential predictive biomarker for lung metastasis and poor prognosis in osteosarcoma patients. Osteosarcoma patients with EFEMP1 expressing biopsies have a poorer overall survival.
PXD042252	38032138	Trace Sample Proteome Quantification by Data-Dependent Acquisition without Dynamic Exclusion. 	Multiplexed Quantitative Analyses Using Data-Dependent Acquisition Without Dynamic Exclusion for trace sample analysis	iTRAQ, turboDDA	Despite continuous technological improvements in sample preparation, mass-spectrometry-based proteomics for trace samples faces the challenges of sensitivity, quantification accuracy, and reproducibility. Herein, we explored the applicability of turboDDA (a method that uses data-dependent acquisition without dynamic exclusion) for quantitative proteomics of trace samples. After systematic optimization of acquisition parameters, we compared the performance of turboDDA with that of data-dependent acquisition with dynamic exclusion (DEDDA). By benchmarking the analysis of trace unlabeled human cell digests, turboDDA showed substantially better sensitivity in comparison with DEDDA, whether for unfractionated or high pH fractionated samples. Furthermore, through designing an iTRAQ-labeled three-proteome model (i.e., tryptic digest of protein lysates from yeast, human, and E. coli) to document the interference effect, we evaluated the quantification interference, accuracy, reproducibility of iTRAQ labeled trace samples, and the impact of PIF (precursor intensity fraction) cutoff for different approaches (turboDDA and DEDDA). The results showed that improved quantification accuracy and reproducibility could be achieved by turboDDA, while a more stringent PIF cutoff resulted in more accurate quantification but less peptide identification for both approaches. Finally, the turboDDA strategy was applied to the differential analysis of limited amounts of human lung cancer cell samples, showing great promise in trace proteomics sample analysis.
PXD047140	38032734	Sustained hyperglycemia specifically targets translation of mRNAs for insulin secretion. 	Sustained hyperglycemia specifically targets translation of mRNAs for insulin secretion	glucose toxicity, islets, mRNA translation, nascent proteomics, pancreatic beta-cells, ribosome profiling	Pancreatic beta-cells are specialized for coupling glucose metabolism to insulin peptide production and secretion. Acute glucose exposure robustly and coordinately increases translation of proinsulin and proteins required for secretion of mature insulin peptide. By contrast, chronically elevated glucose levels that occur during diabetes impair beta-cell insulin secretion and have been shown experimentally to suppress insulin translation. Whether translation of other genes critical for insulin secretion are similarly downregulated by chronic high glucose is unknown. Here, we used high-throughput ribosome profiling and nascent proteomics in MIN6 insulinoma cells to elucidate the genome-wide impact of sustained high glucose on beta-cell mRNA translation. Prior to induction of ER stress or suppression of global translation, sustained high glucose suppressed glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and downregulated translation of not only insulin, but also of mRNAs related to insulin secretory granule formation, exocytosis, and metabolism-coupled insulin secretion. Translation of these mRNAs was also downregulated in primary rat and human islets following ex-vivo incubation with sustained high glucose and in an in vivo model of chronic mild hyperglycemia. Furthermore, translational downregulation decreased cellular abundance of these proteins. Our study uncovered a translational regulatory circuit during beta-cell glucose toxicity that impairs expression of proteins with critical roles in beta-cell function.
PXD045918	38032917	Bacterial amidohydrolases and modified 5-fluorocytidine compounds: Novel enzyme-prodrug pairs. 	Identification of YqfB enzyme expressed in colorectal cancer cell line HCT116 using LC-MS/MS proteomics	Colorectal cancer, HCT116, YqfB	Gene-directed enzyme prodrug therapy is an emerging strategy for cancer treatment based on the delivery of a gene that encodes an enzyme that is able to convert a prodrug into a potent cytotoxin exclusively in target cancer cells. However, it is limited by the lack of suitable enzyme variants and a scarce choice of chemical bonds that could be activated. Therefore, this study is aimed to determine the capability of bacterial amidohydrolases YqfB and D8_RL to activate novel prodrugs and the effect such system has on the viability of eukaryotic cancer cells. We have established cancer cell lines that stably express the bacterial amidohydrolase genes and selected several N4-acylated cytidine derivatives as potential prodrugs. A significant decrease in the viability of HCT116 human colon cancer cell lines expressing either the YqfB or the D8_RL was observed after exposure to the novel prodrugs. The data we acquired suggests that bacterial YqfB and D8_RL amidohydrolases, together with the modified cytidine-based prodrugs, may serve as a promising enzyme-prodrug system for gene-directed enzyme prodrug therapy.
PXD046681	38033593	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of the antibacterial mechanism of silver nanoparticles against multidrug-resistant Streptococcus suis. 	The effect of AgNPs on the protein expression of Streptococcus suis	AgNPs, Streptococcus suis, protein	Background: The increase in antibiotic resistance of bacteria has become a major concern in clinical treatment. Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) have significant antibacterial effects against Streptococcus suis. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the antibacterial activity and mechanism of action of AgNPs against multidrug-resistant S. suis. Methods: The effect of AgNPs on the morphology of multidrug-resistant S. suis was observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Differentially expressed proteins were analyzed by iTRAQ quantitative proteomics, and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was assayed by H2DCF-DA staining. Results: SEM showed that AgNPs disrupted the normal morphology of multidrug-resistant S. suis and the integrity of the biofilm structure. Quantitative proteomic analysis revealed that a large number of cell wall synthesis-related proteins, such as penicillin-binding protein and some cell cycle proteins, such as the cell division protein FtsZ and chromosomal replication initiator protein DnaA, were downregulated after treatment with 25 mug/mL AgNPs. Significant changes were also observed in the expression of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione reductase, alkyl hydroperoxides-like protein, alpha/beta superfamily hydrolases/acyltransferases, and glutathione disulfide reductases. ROS production in S. suis positively correlated with AgNP concentration. Conclusion: The potential antibacterial mechanism of AgNPs may involve disrupting the normal morphology of bacteria by inhibiting the synthesis of cell wall peptidoglycans and inhibiting the growth of bacteria by inhibiting the cell division protein FtsZ and Chromosomal replication initiator protein DnaA. High oxidative stress may be a significant cause of bacterial death. The potential mechanism by which AgNPs inhibit S. suis biofilm formation may involve affecting bacterial adhesion and interfering with the quorum sensing system.
PXD035514	38034020	Clinical characterization and proteomic profiling of lean nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 	Clinical characterization and proteomic profiling of  lean nonalcoholic fatty liver disease	plasma	Introduction: Obesity has been historically associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), but it can also occur in lean individuals. However, limited data is available on this special group. To investigate the clinical and proteomic characteristics of lean subjects with NAFLD, and to identify potential clinical variables and plasma proteins for diagnosing NAFLD in lean individuals, we collected clinical data from a large cohort of 2,236 subjects. Methods: Diagnosis of NAFLD relied on detecting pronounced hepatic steatosis through abdominal ultrasonography. Participants were categorized into four groups based on body mass index: overweight NAFLD, overweight control, lean NAFLD, and lean control. Plasma proteomic profiling was performed on samples from 20 subjects in each group. The lean NAFLD group was compared to both lean healthy and obese NAFLD groups across all data. Results and discussion: The results indicated that the lean NAFLD group exhibited intermediate metabolic profiles, falling between those of the lean healthy and overweight NAFLD groups. Proteomic profiling of plasma in lean subjects with or without NAFLD revealed 45 statistically significant changes in proteins, of which 37 showed high diagnostic value (AUC > 0.7) for lean NAFLD. These potential biomarkers primarily involved lipid metabolism, the immune and complement systems, and platelet degranulation. Furthermore, AFM, GSN, CFH, HGFAC, MMP2, and MMP9 have been previously associated with NAFLD or NAFLD-related factors such as liver damage, insulin resistance, metabolic syndromes, and extracellular homeostasis. Overall, lean individuals with NAFLD exhibit distinct clinical profiles compared to overweight individuals with NAFLD. Despite having worse metabolic profiles than their healthy counterparts, lean NAFLD patients generally experience milder systemic metabolic disturbances compared to obese NAFLD patients. Additionally, the plasma proteomic profile is significantly altered in lean NAFLD, highlighting the potential of differentially expressed proteins as valuable biomarkers or therapeutic targets for diagnosing and treating NAFLD in this population.
PXD046231	38034359	Mof plays distinct roles in hepatic lipid metabolism under healthy or non-alcoholic fatty liver conditions. 	MS analysis of PPAR alpha acetylation	PPAR alpha, acetylation	The disturbance of hepatic lipid metabolism has a strong association with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and diabetes. Mof, an acetyltransferase involved in obesity and carbon metabolism, has not been thoroughly examined in its connection to hepatic metabolism. We aimed to explore the impact of Mof on hepatic lipid metabolism. The alteration of Mof expression was found in both obese mice and NAFLD human liver. The genes regulated by Mof were closely associated with lipid metabolism. In normal mice or hepatic cells, the down-regulation or inhibition of Mof resulted in increased lipid accumulation due to decreased PPARalpha expression. Conversely, in diet-induced obesity (DIO) mice or hepatic cells treated with palmitic acid, the inhibition of Mof led to improved lipid metabolism, attributed to the reduction in p-mTOR/mTOR levels. In summary, Mof exhibited distinct roles in lipid metabolism under different conditions. The inhibition of Mof may hold potential as a therapeutic target for hepatic lipid metabolism disturbances.
PXD046337	38036537	Skeletal muscle-secreted DLPC orchestrates systemic energy homeostasis by enhancing adipose browning. 	Skeletal muscle-secreted DLPC orchestrates systemic energy homeostasis by enhancing adipose browning	DLPC	MyoD is a skeletal muscle-specifically expressed transcription factor and plays a critical role in regulating myogenesis during muscle development and regeneration. However, whether myofibers-expressed MyoD exerts its metabolic function in regulating whole body energy homeostasis in vivo remains largely unknown. Here, we report that genetic deletion of Myod in male mice enhances the oxidative metabolism of muscle and, intriguingly, renders the male mice resistant to high fat diet-induced obesity. By performing lipidomic analysis in muscle-conditioned medium and serum, we identify 1,2-dilinoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DLPC) as a muscle-released lipid that is responsible for MyoD-orchestrated body energy homeostasis in male Myod KO mice. Functionally, the administration of DLPC significantly ameliorates HFD-induced obesity in male mice. Mechanistically, DLPC is found to induce white adipose browning via lipid peroxidation-mediated p38 signaling in male mice. Collectively, our findings not only uncover a novel function of MyoD in controlling systemic energy homeostasis through the muscle-derived lipokine DLPC but also suggest that the DLPC might have clinical potential for treating obesity in humans.
PXD042049	38036981	Quantitative proteomics analysis based on data-independent acquisition reveals the effect of Shenling Baizhu powder (SLP) on protein expression in MAFLD rat liver tissue. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis based on data-independent acquisition reveals the effect of Shenling Baizhu powder (SLP) on protein expression in MAFLD rat liver tissue	DIA proteomics, Metabolism-associated fatty liver disease, Shenling Baizhu Powder, Traditional Chinese medicine	BACKGROUND: Metabolic associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) has become the most common chronic liver disease worldwide, and it is also a high-risk factor for the development of other metabolic diseases. Shenling Baizhu powder (SLP) is a traditional Chinese herbal formula with good clinical efficacy against MAFLD. However, its molecular mechanism for the treatment of MAFLD is still not fully understood. This study used quantitative proteomics analysis to reveal the SLP action mechanism in the treatment of MAFLD by discovering the effect of SLP on protein expression in the liver tissue of MAFLD rats. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Q-Orbitrap LC-MS/MS was used to identify the incoming blood compounds of SLP. The 18 SD male rats were randomly divided into 3 groups (n = 6): control group, HFD group and SLP group. The HFD group and SLP group were established as MAFLD rat models by feeding them a high-fat diet for 4 weeks. Afterwards, the SLP group was treated with SLP (10.89 g/kg/d) for 3 weeks. Biochemical parameters and liver pathological status were measured. Rat liver tissue was analyzed using DIA-based quantitative proteomics and the DEPs were validated by western blotting analysis. RESULTS: A total of 18 active compounds of SLP were identified and isolated to enter the bloodstream. Comparison of DEPs between control group vs. HFD group and HFD group vs. SLP group revealed that SLP restored the expression of 113 DEPs. SLP catalyzes oxidoreductase activity and binding activity on mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum to promote lipid oxidative catabolism, maintain oxoacid metabolic homeostasis in vivo and mitigate oxidative stress-induced hepatocyte injury. And 52 signaling pathways including PPAR signaling, arachidonic acid metabolism and glycine, serine and threonine metabolism were enriched by KEGG. PPI topology analysis showed that Cyp4a2, Agxt2, Fabp1, Pck1, Acsm3, Aldh1a1, Got1 and Hmgcs2 were the core DEPs. The western blotting analysis verified that SLP was able to reverse the increase in Fabp1 and Hmgcs2 and the decrease in Pck1 induced by HFD, and the results were consistent proteomic data. CONCLUSION: SLP ameliorates hepatic steatosis to exert therapeutic effects on MAFLD by inhibiting the expression of lipid synthesis genes and inhibiting lipid peroxidation in mitochondria. This study provides a new idea and basis for the study of SLP in the treatment of MAFLD and provides an experimental basis for the clinical application of SLP.
PXD031091	38039131	NGLY1 mutations cause protein aggregation in human neurons. 	NGLY1 mutations cause protein aggregation in human neurons	NGLY1 deficiency, forebrain organoids, fragmented mitochondria, heat shock proteins, neural cells, protein aggregates	Biallelic mutations in the gene that encodes the enzyme N-glycanase 1 (NGLY1) cause a rare disease with multi-symptomatic features including developmental delay, intellectual disability, neuropathy, and seizures. NGLY1's activity in human neural cells is currently not well understood. To understand how NGLY1 gene loss leads to the specific phenotypes of NGLY1 deficiency, we employed direct conversion of NGLY1 patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) to functional cortical neurons. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and functional studies of iPSC-derived neurons lacking NGLY1 function revealed several major cellular processes that were altered, including protein aggregate-clearing functionality, mitochondrial homeostasis, and synaptic dysfunctions. These phenotypes were rescued by introduction of a functional NGLY1 gene and were observed in iPSC-derived mature neurons but not astrocytes. Finally, laser capture microscopy followed by mass spectrometry provided detailed characterization of the composition of protein aggregates specific to NGLY1-deficient neurons. Future studies will harness this knowledge for therapeutic development.
PXD046523	38039132	The phosphorylated trimeric SOSS1 complex and RNA polymerase II trigger liquid-liquid phase separation at double-strand breaks. 	Determination of modification sites of hSSB1 by cABL1 kinase	cABL1, hSSB1, tyrosine phosphorylation	Double-strand breaks (DSBs) are the most severe type of DNA damage. Previously, we demonstrated that RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) phosphorylated at the tyrosine 1 (Y1P) residue of its C-terminal domain (CTD) generates RNAs at DSBs. However, the regulation of transcription at DSBs remains enigmatic. Here, we show that the damage-activated tyrosine kinase c-Abl phosphorylates hSSB1, enabling its interaction with Y1P RNAPII at DSBs. Furthermore, the trimeric SOSS1 complex, consisting of hSSB1, INTS3, and c9orf80, binds to Y1P RNAPII in response to DNA damage in an R-loop-dependent manner. Specifically, hSSB1, as a part of the trimeric SOSS1 complex, exhibits a strong affinity for R-loops, even in the presence of replication protein A (RPA). Our in vitro and in vivo data reveal that the SOSS1 complex and RNAPII form dynamic liquid-like repair compartments at DSBs. Depletion of the SOSS1 complex impairs DNA repair, underscoring its biological role in the R-loop-dependent DNA damage response.
PXD044294	38040731	A simple method for developing lysine targeted covalent protein reagents. 	A simple method for developing lysine targeted covalent protein reagents	Covalent probes, peptides	Peptide-based covalent probes can target shallow protein surfaces not typically addressable using small molecules, yet there is a need for versatile approaches to convert native peptide sequences into covalent binders that can target a broad range of residues. Here we report protein-based thio-methacrylate esters-electrophiles that can be installed easily on unprotected peptides and proteins via cysteine side chains, and react efficiently and selectively with cysteine and lysine side chains on the target. Methacrylate phosphopeptides derived from 14-3-3-binding proteins irreversibly label 14-3-3sigma via either lysine or cysteine residues, depending on the position of the electrophile. Methacrylate peptides targeting a conserved lysine residue exhibit pan-isoform binding of 14-3-3 proteins both in lysates and in extracellular media. Finally, we apply this approach to develop protein-based covalent binders. A methacrylate-modified variant of the colicin E9 immunity protein irreversibly binds to the E9 DNAse, resulting in significantly higher thermal stability relative to the non-covalent complex. Our approach offers a simple and versatile route to convert peptides and proteins into potent covalent binders.
PXD019633	38040826	Residual serum fibrinogen as a universal biomarker for all serotypes of Myasthenia gravis. 	Serum Proteomic Profiling of Myasthenia gravis	LCMSMS, MG, Myasthenia gravis, RA, Rheumatoid arthritis, Serum	Myasthenia Gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease associated with severe neuromuscular weakness. Diagnostic confirmation of MG is typically delayed and secured in about 85% and 50% of patients with generalized and ocular MG, respectively with serum antibodies. We have identified a sensitive and specific diagnostic biomarker for various MG serotypes with quantitative proteomics. Serum proteomes of 18 individuals (MG patients, healthy controls (HC), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) were quantified in a pilot study and occurrence of high residual fibrinogen was validated by immunoblotting and further investigated by targeted mass spectrometry on the sera of 79 individuals (31 MG of various serotypes, 30 HC, 18 RA). Initial proteomic analysis identified high residual fibrinogen in MG patient sera which was then validated by antibody-based testing. Subsequently, a blinded study of independent samples showed 100% differentiation of MG patients from controls. A final serological quantification of 14 surrogate peptides derived from alpha-, beta-, and gamma-subunits of fibrinogen in 79 individuals revealed fibrinogen to be highly specific and 100% sensitive for MG (p < 0.00001), with a remarkable average higher abundance of > 1000-fold over control groups. Our unanticipated discovery of high levels of residual serum fibrinogen in all MG patients can secure rapid bedside diagnosis of MG.
PXD043079	38041233	TGF-beta signaling promotes desmoid tumor formation via CSRP2 upregulation. 	Proteomic analysis of desmoid tumors in a novel mouse model.	TMT, desmoid tumor, mouse model	Desmoid tumors (DTs), also called desmoid-type fibromatoses, are locally aggressive tumors of mesenchymal origin. In the present study, we developed a novel mouse model of DTs by inducing a local mutation in the Ctnnb1 gene, encoding beta-catenin in PDGFRA-positive stromal cells, by subcutaneous injection of 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen. Tumors in this model resembled histologically clinical samples from DT patients and showed strong phosphorylation of nuclear SMAD2. Knockout of SMAD4 in the model significantly suppressed tumor growth. Proteomic analysis revealed that SMAD4 knockout reduced the level of Cysteine-and-Glycine-Rich Protein 2 (CSRP2) in DTs, and treatment of DT-derived cells with a TGF-beta receptor inhibitor reduced CSRP2 RNA levels. Knockdown of CSRP2 in DT cells significantly suppressed their proliferation. These results indicate that the TGF-beta/CSRP2 axis is a potential therapeutic target for DTs downstream of TGF-beta signaling.
PXD041391	38042886	MultiPro: DDA-PASEF and diaPASEF acquired cell line proteomic datasets with deliberate batch effects. 	DDA-PASEF and diaPASEF acquired HCC1806/HS578T proteomic datasets with deliberate batch effects	Batch Effects, DDA, DIA, HCC1806, HS578T, PASEF	Mass spectrometry-based proteomics plays a critical role in current biological and clinical research. Technical issues like data integration, missing value imputation, batch effect correction and the exploration of inter-connections amongst these technical issues, can produce errors but are not well studied. Although proteomic technologies have improved significantly in recent years, this alone cannot resolve these issues. What is needed are better algorithms and data processing knowledge. But to obtain these, we need appropriate proteomics datasets for exploration, investigation, and benchmarking. To meet this need, we developed MultiPro (Multi-purpose Proteome Resource), a resource comprising four comprehensive large-scale proteomics datasets with deliberate batch effects using the latest parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation in both Data-Dependent Acquisition (DDA) and Data Independent Acquisition (DIA) modes. Each dataset contains a balanced two-class design based on well-characterized and widely studied cell lines (A549 vs K562 or HCC1806 vs HS578T) with 48 or 36 biological and technical replicates altogether, allowing for investigation of a multitude of technical issues. These datasets allow for investigation of inter-connections between class and batch factors, or to develop approaches to compare and integrate data from DDA and DIA platforms.
PXD040478	38042915	Clonal heterogeneity in ER+ breast cancer reveals the proteasome and PKC as potential therapeutic targets. 	Phosphoproteomics measurement of clonal endocrine therapy sensitive and resistant breast cancer populations	Breast cancer, Phosphoproteomics, clonal deconvolution, therapy resistance	Intratumoral heterogeneity impacts the success or failure of anti-cancer therapies. Here, we investigated the evolution and mechanistic heterogeneity in clonal populations of cell models for estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. To this end, we established barcoded models of luminal breast cancer and rendered them resistant to commonly applied first line endocrine therapies. By isolating single clones from the resistant cell pools and characterizing replicates of individual clones we observed inter- (between cell lines) and intra-tumor (between different clones from the same cell line) heterogeneity. Molecular characterization at RNA and phospho-proteomic levels revealed private clonal activation of the unfolded protein response and respective sensitivity to inhibition of the proteasome, and potentially shared sensitivities for repression of protein kinase C. Our in vitro findings are consistent with tumor-heterogeneity that is observed in breast cancer patients thus highlighting the need to uncover heterogeneity at an individual patient level and to adjust therapies accordingly.
PXD046075	38043248	Comparative analysis of Chrysoporthe cubensis exoproteomes and their specificity for saccharification of sugarcane bagasse. 	Comparative analysis of Chrysoporthe cubensis exoproteomes and their specificity for saccharification of sugarcane bagasse	CAZymes, Chrysoporthe cubensis, biomass saccharification, exoproteome, sugarcane bagasse, wheat bran	The phytopathogenic fungus Chrysoporthe cubensis is a relevant source of lignocellulolytic enzymes. This work aimed to compare the profile of lignocellulose-degrading proteins secreted by C. cubensis grown under semi-solid state fermentation using wheat bran (WB) and sugarcane bagasse (SB). The exoproteomes of the fungus grown in wheat bran (WBE) and sugarcane bagasse (SBE) were qualitative and quantitatively analyzed by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD046075. Label-free proteomic analysis of WBE and SBE showed that the fungus produced a spectrum of carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) with exclusive characteristics from each extract. While SBE resulted in an enzymatic profile directed towards the depolymerization of cellulose, the enzymes in WBE were more adaptable to the degradation of biomass rich in hemicellulose and other non-lignocellulosic polymers. Saccharification of alkaline pre-treated sugarcane bagasse with SBE promoted glucose release higher than commercial cocktails (8.11 g L(-1)), while WBE promoted the higher release of xylose (5.71 g L(-1)). Our results allowed an in-depth knowledge of the complex set of enzymes secreted by C. cubensis responsible for its high lignocellulolytic activity and still provided the identification of promising target proteins for biotechnological applications in the context of biorefinery.
PXD042217	38046296	Qualitative Proteome-wide Lysine Crotonylation Profiling Reveals Protein Modification Alteration in the Leukocyte Extravasation Pathway in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. 	A qualitative proteome-wide lysine crotonylation profiling reveals protein modification alteration in the leukocyte extravasation pathway in systemic lupus erythematosus	Crotonylation, Leukocyte extravasation, Post-translational modifications, Systemic lupus erythematosus	BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a severe systemic autoimmune disease with multiple manifestations. Lysine crotonylation (Kcr) is a newly discovered posttranslational modification epigenetic pattern that may affect gene expression and is linked to diseases causally. METHODS: We collected blood samples from 11 SLE individuals and 36 healthy subjects. Then, we used highly sensitive liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry technology to carry out proteomics and quantitative crotonylome analysis of SLE peripheral blood mononuclear cells in this investigation, which indicated the unique etiology of SLE. Finally, we verified the expression of critical protein in the leukocyte extravasation pathway by online database analysis and Western blot. RESULTS: There were 618 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), and 612 crotonylated lysine sites for 272 differentially modified proteins (DMPs) found. These DEPs and DMPs are primarily enriched in the leukocyte extravasation signaling pathway, such as MMP8, MMP9, and ITGAM. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study of crotonylated modification proteomics in SLE. The leukocyte extravasation signaling pathway had a considerable concentration of DEPs and DMPs, indicating that this pathway may be involved in the pathogenic development of SLE.
PXD045997	38047041	Lysinoalanine cross-linking is a conserved post-translational modification in the spirochete flagellar hook. 	Lysinoalanine crosslinking is a conserved post-translational modification in the spirochete flagellar hookLysinoalanine crosslinking is a conserved post-translational modification in the spirochete flagellar hook	Spirochete, lysinoalanine, post-translational modification	Spirochetes cause Lyme disease, leptospirosis, syphilis, and several other human illnesses. Unlike other bacteria, spirochete flagella are enclosed within the periplasmic space where the filaments distort and push the cell body by the action of the flagellar motors. We previously demonstrated that the oral pathogen Treponema denticola (Td) and Lyme disease pathogen Borreliella burgdorferi (Bb) form covalent lysinoalanine (Lal) cross-links between conserved cysteine and lysine residues of the FlgE protein that composes the flagellar hook. In Td, Lal is unnecessary for hook assembly but is required for motility, presumably due to the stabilizing effect of the cross-link. Herein, we extend these findings to other, representative spirochete species across the phylum. We confirm the presence of Lal cross-linked peptides in recombinant and in vivo-derived samples from Treponema spp., Borreliella spp., Brachyspira spp., and Leptospira spp. As was observed with Td, a mutant strain of Bb unable to form the cross-link has greatly impaired motility. FlgE from Leptospira spp. does not conserve the Lal-forming cysteine residue which is instead substituted by serine. Nevertheless, Leptospira interrogans FlgE also forms Lal, with several different Lal isoforms being detected between Ser-179 and Lys-145, Lys-148, and Lys-166, thereby highlighting species or order-specific differences within the phylum. Our data reveal that the Lal cross-link is a conserved and necessary posttranslational modification across the spirochete phylum and may thus represent an effective target for the development of spirochete-specific antimicrobials.
PXD045279	38047073	Hepatic Huwe1 loss protects mice from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease through lipid metabolic rewiring. 	Hepatic Huwe1 loss protects mice from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease through lipid metabolic rewiring	NAFLD, PPAR, RXR, Steatosis	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most pervasive liver pathology worldwide. Here, we demonstrate that the ubiquitin E3 ligase Huwe1 is vital in NAFLD pathogenesis. Using mass spectrometry and RNA sequencing, we reveal that liver-specific deletion of Huwe1 (Huwe1LKO) in 1-year-old mice (approximately middle age in humans) elicits extensive lipid metabolic reprogramming that involves downregulation of de novo lipogenesis and fatty acid uptake, upregulation of fatty acid beta-oxidation, and increased oxidative phosphorylation. ChEA transcription factor prediction analysis inferred these changes result from attenuated PPARa, LXR, and RXR activity in Huwe1LKO livers. Consequently, Huwe1LKO mice fed chow diet exhibited significantly reduced hepatic steatosis and superior glucose tolerance compared to wild-type mice. Huwe1LKO also conferred protection from high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis by 6-months of age, with increasingly robust differences observed as mice reached middle age. Together, we present evidence that Huwe1 plays a critical role in the development of age- and diet-induced NAFLD.
PXD018922	38047086	Functional and spatial proteomics profiling reveals intra- and intercellular signaling crosstalk in colorectal cancer. 	DIA analysis of colorectal cancer organoids (cancer vs metastasis)	Colorectal cancer, organoids	Precision oncology approaches for patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) continue to lag behind other solid cancers. Functional precision oncology-a strategy that is based on perturbing primary tumor cells from cancer patients-could provide a road forward to personalize treatment. We extend this paradigm to measuring proteome activity landscapes by acquiring quantitative phosphoproteomic data from patient-derived organoids (PDOs). We show that kinase inhibitors induce inhibitor- and patient-specific off-target effects and pathway crosstalk. Reconstruction of the kinase networks revealed that the signaling rewiring is modestly affected by mutations. We show non-genetic heterogeneity of the PDOs and upregulation of stemness and differentiation genes by kinase inhibitors. Using imaging mass-cytometry-based profiling of the primary tumors, we characterize the tumor microenvironment (TME) and determine spatial heterocellular crosstalk and tumor-immune cell interactions. Collectively, we provide a framework for inferring tumor cell intrinsic signaling and external signaling from the TME to inform precision (immuno-) oncology in CRC.
PXD046080	38047647	Repurposing of the antimalarial agent tafenoquine to combat MRSA. 	Repurposing of the anti-malarial agent tafenoquine to combat MRSA	Staphylococcus aureus, antimicrobial agents, tafenoquine	IMPORTANCE: This study represents the first investigation into the antimicrobial effect of TAF against S. aureus and its potential mechanisms. Our data highlighted the effects of TAF against MRSA planktonic cells, biofilms, and persister cells, which is conducive to broadening the application of TAF. Through mechanistic studies, we revealed that TAF targets bacterial cell membranes. In addition, the in vivo experiments in mice demonstrated the safety and antimicrobial efficacy of TAF, suggesting that TAF could be a potential antibacterial drug candidate for the treatment of infections caused by multiple drug-resistant S. aureus.
PXD043081	38048304	SAD-1 kinase controls presynaptic phase separation by relieving SYD-2/Liprin-alpha autoinhibition. 	SAD-1 kinase controls presynaptic phase separation by relieving SYD-2/Liprin-alpha autoinhibition.	SAD-1 kinase, active zone, phase separation, phosphorylation	Neuronal development orchestrates the formation of an enormous number of synapses that connect the nervous system. In developing presynapses, the core active zone structure has been found to assemble through liquid-liquid phase separation. Here, we find that the phase separation of Caenorhabditis elegans SYD-2/Liprin-alpha, a key active zone scaffold, is controlled by phosphorylation. We identify the SAD-1 kinase as a regulator of SYD-2 phase separation and determine presynaptic assembly is impaired in sad-1 mutants and increased by overactivation of SAD-1. Using phosphoproteomics, we find SAD-1 phosphorylates SYD-2 on 3 sites that are critical to activate phase separation. Mechanistically, SAD-1 phosphorylation relieves a binding interaction between 2 folded domains in SYD-2 that inhibits phase separation by an intrinsically disordered region (IDR). We find synaptic cell adhesion molecules localize SAD-1 to nascent synapses upstream of active zone formation. We conclude that SAD-1 phosphorylates SYD-2 at developing synapses, activating its phase separation and active zone assembly.
PXD041762	38048423	Proteomic Evolution from Acute to Post-COVID-19 Conditions. 	PROTEOMICS EVOLUTION FROM ACUTE TO POST-COVID-19 CONDITION	COVID-19, Post-COVID-19 condition, restrictive lung disease, targeted proteomics	Many COVID-19 survivors have post-COVID-19 conditions, and females are at a higher risk. We sought to determine (1) how protein levels change from acute to post-COVID-19 conditions, (2) whether females have a plasma protein signature different from that of males, and (3) which biological pathways are associated with COVID-19 when compared to restrictive lung disease. We measured protein levels in 74 patients on the day of admission and at 3 and 6 months after diagnosis. We determined protein concentrations by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) using a panel of 269 heavy-labeled peptides. The predicted forced vital capacity (FVC) and diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO) were measured by routine pulmonary function testing. Proteins associated with six key lipid-related pathways increased from admission to 3 and 6 months; conversely, proteins related to innate immune responses and vasoconstriction-related proteins decreased. Multiple biological functions were regulated differentially between females and males. Concentrations of eight proteins were associated with FVC, %, and they together had c-statistics of 0.751 (CI:0.732-0.779); similarly, concentrations of five proteins had c-statistics of 0.707 (CI:0.676-0.737) for DLCO, %. Lipid biology may drive evolution from acute to post-COVID-19 conditions, while activation of innate immunity and vascular regulation pathways decreased over that period. (ProteomeXchange identifiers: PXD041762, PXD029437).
PXD045626	38048430	Proteomics of Serum Samples for the Exploration of the Pathological Mechanism of Obstetric Antiphospholipid Syndrome. 	DIA proteomic of serum samples for the exploration of the pathological mechanism of Obstetric Antiphospholipid syndorme	DIA, OAPS	Obstetric antiphospholipid syndrome (OAPS) is a multisystem disorder characterized by thrombosis or recurrent fetal loss. In this study, we aim to explore the pathological mechanism of OAPS. Herein, we carried out data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry quantitative proteomic analysis of serum samples from OAPS patients and healthy controls. A set of 93 differentially expressed proteins was identified, including 75 upregulated and 18 downregulated proteins compared with the levels in controls. Those proteins are enriched in KEGG pathways related to autoimmune diseases, allergic diseases, and pathogen infection. Interestingly, metabolic pathways such as fatty acid degradation and type I diabetes were enriched, indicating that OAPS is metabolic disease related. The significantly increased triglyceride also supported this idea. The differentially expressed proteins insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1), C-reactive protein (CRP), and ferritin light chain (FTL) were validated by ELISA. Our study presented a deep serum proteomics of OAPS and advanced our understanding of OAPS pathogenesis.
PXD030834	38049816	Molecular and functional characterization of Schistosoma japonicum annexin A13. 	the proteomic profiles of single-sex infected female worms and bisexual infected mature female worms of Schistosoma japonicum at 18, 21, 23 and 25 days post infection	Schistosoma japonicum, bisexual infected mature female, iTRAQ, single-sex infected female	Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease that affects humans and animals in tropical and subtropical regions worldwide. Schistosome eggs are responsible for the pathogenesis and transmission of schistosomiasis, thus reducing egg production is vital for prevention and control of schistosomiasis. However, the mechanisms underlying schistosome reproduction remain unclear. Annexin proteins (ANXs) are involved in the physiological and pathological functions of schistosomes, but the specific regulatory mechanisms and roles of ANX A13 in the development of Schistosoma japonicum and host-parasite interactions remain poorly understood. Therefore, in this study, the expression profiles of SjANX A13 at different life cycle stages of S. japonicum were assessed using quantitative PCR. In addition, the expression profiles of the homolog in S. mansoni were analyzed in reference to public datasets. The results of RNA interference showed that knockdown of SjANX A13 significantly affected the development and egg production of female worms in vivo. The results of an immune protection assay showed that recombinant SjANX A13 increased production of immunoglobulin G-specific antibodies. Finally, co-culture of S. japonicum exosomes with LX-2 cells using a transwell system demonstrated that SjANX A13 is involved in host-parasite interactions via exosomes. Collectively, these results will help to clarify the roles of SjANX A13 in the development of S. japonicum and host-parasite interactions as a potential vaccine candidate.
PXD041245	38049829	Immunoproteasome function maintains oncogenic gene expression in KMT2A-complex driven leukemia. 	Immunoproteasome function maintains oncogenic gene expression in KMT2A-complex driven leukemia	AML, Immunoproteasome, KMT2A, Leukemia, MLL-fusion	Pharmacologic targeting of chromatin-associated protein complexes has shown significant responses in KMT2A-rearranged (KMT2A-r) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) but resistance frequently develops to single agents. This points to a need for therapeutic combinations that target multiple mechanisms. To enhance our understanding of functional dependencies in KMT2A-r AML, we have used a proteomic approach to identify the catalytic immunoproteasome subunit PSMB8 as a specific vulnerability. Genetic and pharmacologic inactivation of PSMB8 results in impaired proliferation of murine and human leukemic cells while normal hematopoietic cells remain unaffected. Disruption of immunoproteasome function drives an increase in transcription factor BASP1 which in turn represses KMT2A-fusion protein target genes. Pharmacologic targeting of PSMB8 improves efficacy of Menin-inhibitors, synergistically reduces leukemia in human xenografts and shows preserved activity against Menin-inhibitor resistance mutations. This identifies and validates a cell-intrinsic mechanism whereby selective disruption of proteostasis results in altered transcription factor abundance and repression of oncogene-specific transcriptional networks. These data demonstrate that the immunoproteasome is a relevant therapeutic target in AML and that targeting the immunoproteasome in combination with Menin-inhibition could be a novel approach for treatment of KMT2A-r AML.
PXD037409	38049860	Noninvasive urinary protein signatures combined clinical information associated with microvascular invasion risk in HCC patients. 	Noninvasive urinary protein signatures combined clinical information associated with Microvascular Invasion Risk in patients with HCC	HCC, MVI, urinary	BACKGROUND: Microvascular invasion (MVI) is the main factor affecting the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The aim of this study was to identify accurate diagnostic biomarkers from urinary protein signatures for preoperative prediction. METHODS: We conducted label-free quantitative proteomic studies on urine samples of 91 HCC patients and 22 healthy controls. We identified candidate biomarkers capable of predicting MVI status and combined them with patient clinical information to perform a preoperative nomogram for predicting MVI status in the training cohort. Then, the nomogram was validated in the testing cohort (n = 23). Expression levels of biomarkers were further confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in an independent validation HCC cohort (n = 57). RESULTS: Urinary proteomic features of healthy controls are mainly characterized by active metabolic processes. Cell adhesion and cell proliferation-related pathways were highly defined in the HCC group, such as extracellular matrix organization, cell-cell adhesion, and cell-cell junction organization, which confirms the malignant phenotype of HCC patients. Based on the expression levels of four proteins: CETP, HGFL, L1CAM, and LAIR2, combined with tumor diameter, serum AFP, and GGT concentrations to establish a preoperative MVI status prediction model for HCC patients. The nomogram achieved good concordance indexes of 0.809 and 0.783 in predicting MVI in the training and testing cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: The four-protein-related nomogram in urine samples is a promising preoperative prediction model for the MVI status of HCC patients. Using the model, the risk for an individual patient to harbor MVI can be determined.
PXD043900	38050972	The previously uncharacterized RnpM (YlxR) protein modulates the activity of ribonuclease P in Bacillus subtilis in vitro. 	The previously uncharacterized YlxR (RnpM) protein modulates the activity of ribonuclease P	Bacillus subtilis, protein-RNA crosslinking	Even though Bacillus subtilis is one of the most studied organisms, no function has been identified for about 20% of its proteins. Among these unknown proteins are several RNA- and ribosome-binding proteins suggesting that they exert functions in cellular information processing. In this work, we have investigated the RNA-binding protein YlxR. This protein is widely conserved in bacteria and strongly constitutively expressed in B. subtilis suggesting an important function. We have identified the RNA subunit of the essential RNase P as the binding partner of YlxR. The main activity of RNase P is the processing of 5' ends of pre-tRNAs. In vitro processing assays demonstrated that the presence of YlxR results in reduced RNase P activity. Chemical cross-linking studies followed by in silico docking analysis and experiments with site-directed mutant proteins suggest that YlxR binds to the region of the RNase P RNA that is important for binding and cleavage of the pre-tRNA substrate. We conclude that the YlxR protein is a novel interaction partner of the RNA subunit of RNase P that serves to finetune RNase P activity to ensure appropriate amounts of mature tRNAs for translation. We rename the YlxR protein RnpM for RNase P modulator.
PXD033180	38051229	Interaction of whitefly effector G4 with tomato proteins impacts whitefly performance. 	Proteomics analysis of Bemisia tabaci (MED) saliva	Bemisia, artificial diet, saliva, whitefly	The phloem-feeding insect Bemisia tabaci is an important pest, responsible for the transmission of several crop-threatening virus species. While feeding, the insect secretes a cocktail of effectors to modulate plant defense responses. Here, we present a set of proteins that was identified in artificial diet on which B. tabaci was salivating. Subsequently we studied whether these candidate effectors can play a role in plant immune suppression. Effector G4 was the most robust suppressor of an induced-ROS response in Nicotiana benthamiana. In addition, G4 was able to suppress ROS production in Solanum lycopersicum (tomato) and Capsicum annuum (pepper). G4 localized predominantly in the ER in N. benthamiana leaves and co-localized with two identified target proteins in tomato: REF-like stress related protein 1 (RSP1) and meloidogyne-induced giant cell protein DB141 (MIPDB141). Silencing of MIPDB141 in tomato reduced whitefly fecundity up to 40%, demonstrating that the protein is involved in susceptibility to B. tabaci. Together our data demonstrate that effector G4 impairs tomato immunity to whiteflies by interfering with ROS production and via an interaction with tomato susceptibility protein MIPDB141.
PXD043557	38051559	Microglia Polarization and Antiglioma Effects Fostered by Dual Cell Membrane-Coated Doxorubicin-Loaded Hexagonal Boron Nitride Nanoflakes. 	Microglia polarization and anti-glioma effects fostered by dual cell membrane-coated doxorubicin-loaded hexagonal boron nitride nanoplatelets	M2 polarization, doxorubicin, glioblastoma multiforme, hexagonal boron nitride nanoplatelets, homotypic targeting, microglia	Microglial cells play a critical role in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) progression, which is considered a highly malignant brain cancer. The activation of microglia can either promote or inhibit GBM growth depending on the stage of the tumor development and on the microenvironment conditions. The current treatments for GBM have limited efficacy; therefore, there is an urgent need to develop novel and efficient strategies for drug delivery and targeting: in this context, a promising strategy consists of using nanoplatforms. This study investigates the microglial response and the therapeutic efficacy of dual-cell membrane-coated and doxorubicin-loaded hexagonal boron nitride nanoflakes tested on human microglia and GBM cells. Obtained results show promising therapeutic effects on glioma cells and an M2 microglia polarization, which refers to a specific phenotype or activation state that is associated with anti-inflammatory and tissue repair functions, highlighted through proteomic analysis.
PXD037623	38052926	RNA binding protein IGF2BP2 expression is induced by stress in the heart and mediates dilated cardiomyopathy. 	The RNA Binding Protein IGF2BP2 is Upregulated by Stress in the Heart and Causes Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Dilated Cardiomyopathy	IGF2BP2, LCMS, heart	The IGF2BP family of RNA binding proteins consists of three paralogs that regulate intracellular RNA localization, RNA stability, and translational control. Although IGF2BP1 and 3 are oncofetal proteins, IGF2BP2 expression is maintained in many tissues, including the heart, into adulthood. IGF2BP2 is upregulated in cardiomyocytes during cardiac stress and remodeling and returns to normal levels in recovering hearts. We wondered whether IGF2BP2 might play an adaptive role during cardiac stress and recovery. Enhanced expression of an IGF2BP2 transgene in a conditional, inducible mouse line leads to dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and death within 3-4 weeks in newborn or adult hearts. Downregulation of the transgene after 2 weeks, however, rescues these mice, with complete recovery by 12 weeks. Hearts overexpressing IGF2BP2 downregulate sarcomeric and mitochondrial proteins and have fragmented mitochondria and elongated, thinner sarcomeres. IGF2BP2 is also upregulated in DCM or myocardial infarction patients. These results suggest that IGF2BP2 may be an attractive target for therapeutic intervention in cardiomyopathies.
PXD044519	38053024	sBioSITe enables sensitive identification of the cell surface proteome through direct enrichment of biotinylated peptides. 	sBioSITe enables sensitive identification of the cell surface proteome through direct enrichment of biotinylated peptides	BioSITe, biotinylation, label-free quantitation, surfaceome	BACKGROUND: Cell surface proteins perform critical functions related to immune response, signal transduction, cell-cell interactions, and cell migration. Expression of specific cell surface proteins can determine cell-type identity, and can be altered in diseases including infections, cancer and genetic disorders. Identification of the cell surface proteome remains a challenge despite several enrichment methods exploiting their biochemical and biophysical properties. METHODS: Here, we report a novel method for enrichment of proteins localized to cell surface. We developed this new approach designated surface Biotinylation Site Identification Technology (sBioSITe) by adapting our previously published method for direct identification of biotinylated peptides. In this strategy, the primary amine groups of lysines on proteins on the surface of live cells are first labeled with biotin, and subsequently, biotinylated peptides are enriched by anti-biotin antibodies and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). RESULTS: By direct detection of biotinylated lysines from PC-3, a prostate cancer cell line, using sBioSITe, we identified 5851 peptides biotinylated on the cell surface that were derived from 1409 proteins. Of these proteins, 533 were previously shown or predicted to be localized to the cell surface or secreted extracellularly. Several of the identified cell surface markers have known associations with prostate cancer and metastasis including CD59, 4F2 cell-surface antigen heavy chain (SLC3A2) and adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E5 (CD97). Importantly, we identified several biotinylated peptides derived from plectin and nucleolin, both of which are not annotated in surface proteome databases but have been shown to have aberrant surface localization in certain cancers highlighting the utility of this method. CONCLUSIONS: Detection of biotinylation sites on cell surface proteins using sBioSITe provides a reliable method for identifying cell surface proteins. This strategy complements existing methods for detection of cell surface expressed proteins especially in discovery-based proteomics approaches.
PXD046611	38055822	RAD54L2 counters TOP2-DNA adducts to promote genome stability. 	RAD54L2 mediates a novel mechanism to counter TOP2-DNA adducts	Etoposide, RAD54L2, TOP2-DNA adducts, cancer	The catalytic cycle of topoisomerase 2 (TOP2) enzymes proceeds via a transient DNA double-strand break (DSB) intermediate termed the TOP2 cleavage complex (TOP2cc), in which the TOP2 protein is covalently bound to DNA. Anticancer agents such as etoposide operate by stabilizing TOP2ccs, ultimately generating genotoxic TOP2-DNA protein cross-links that require processing and repair. Here, we identify RAD54 like 2 (RAD54L2) as a factor promoting TOP2cc resolution. We demonstrate that RAD54L2 acts through a novel mechanism together with zinc finger protein associated with tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase 2 (TDP2) and TOP2 (ZATT/ZNF451) and independent of TDP2. Our work suggests a model wherein RAD54L2 recognizes sumoylated TOP2 and, using its ATPase activity, promotes TOP2cc resolution and prevents DSB exposure. These findings suggest RAD54L2-mediated TOP2cc resolution as a potential mechanism for cancer therapy resistance and highlight RAD54L2 as an attractive candidate for drug discovery.
PXD046093	38055903	A translational regulatory mechanism mediated by hypusinated eukaryotic initiation factor 5A facilitates beta cell identity and function. 	A translational regulatory mechanism mediated by hypusinated eukaryotic initiation factor 5A facilitates beta cell identity and function	beta cell development, beta cell function, beta cell identity, beta cell maturation, diabetes, mRNA translation, translational regulation	As professional secretory cells, beta cells require adaptable mRNA translation to facilitate a rapid synthesis of proteins, including insulin, in response to changing metabolic cues. Specialized mRNA translation programs are essential drivers of cellular development and differentiation. However, in the pancreatic beta cell, the majority of factors identified to promote growth and development function primarily at the level of transcription. Therefore, despite its importance, the regulatory role of mRNA translation in the formation and maintenance of functional beta cells is not well defined. In this study, we have identified a translational regulatory mechanism mediated by the specialized mRNA translation factor eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF5A), which facilitates the maintenance of beta cell identity and function. The mRNA translation function of eIF5A is only active when it is post-translationally modified ("hypusinated") by the enzyme deoxyhypusine synthase (DHPS). We have discovered that the absence of beta cell DHPS in mice reduces the synthesis of proteins critical to beta cell identity and function at the stage of beta cell maturation, leading to a rapid and reproducible onset of diabetes. Therefore, our work has revealed a gatekeeper of specialized mRNA translation that permits the beta cell, a metabolically responsive secretory cell, to maintain the integrity of protein synthesis necessary during times of induced or increased demand.
PXD046898	38057316	Systemically administered wound-homing peptide accelerates wound healing by modulating syndecan-4 function. 	Proteomic analysis of ARF regulatory molecules co-immunoprecipitating with human SDC4 (huSDC4)	Syndecan-4 ARF6 Cytohesin-2 CYTH2 IQSEC1 ARNO ARFGEF ARFGAP	CAR (CARSKNKDC) is a wound-homing peptide that recognises angiogenic neovessels. Here we discover that systemically administered CAR peptide has inherent ability to promote wound healing: wounds close and re-epithelialise faster in CAR-treated male mice. CAR promotes keratinocyte migration in vitro. The heparan sulfate proteoglycan syndecan-4 regulates cell migration and is crucial for wound healing. We report that syndecan-4 expression is restricted to epidermis and blood vessels in mice skin wounds. Syndecan-4 regulates binding and internalisation of CAR peptide and CAR-mediated cytoskeletal remodelling. CAR induces syndecan-4-dependent activation of the small GTPase ARF6, via the guanine nucleotide exchange factor cytohesin-2, and promotes syndecan-4-, ARF6- and Cytohesin-2-mediated keratinocyte migration. Finally, we show that genetic ablation of syndecan-4 in male mice eliminates CAR-induced wound re-epithelialisation following systemic administration. We propose that CAR peptide activates syndecan-4 functions to selectively promote re-epithelialisation. Thus, CAR peptide provides a therapeutic approach to enhance wound healing in mice; systemic, yet target organ- and cell-specific.
PXD041871	38057328	Co-targeting HSP90 alpha and CDK7 overcomes resistance against HSP90 inhibitors in BCR-ABL1+ leukemia cells. 	Co-targeting HSP90 alpha and CDK7 overcomes resistance against HSP90 inhibitors in BCR-ABL1+ leukemia cells	HSP90, HSP90alpha, HSP90beta, K562, knockout, secretome	HSP90 has emerged as an appealing anti-cancer target. However, HSP90 inhibitors (HSP90i) are characterized by limited clinical utility, primarily due to the resistance acquisition via heat shock response (HSR) induction. Understanding the roles of abundantly expressed cytosolic HSP90 isoforms (alpha and beta) in sustaining malignant cells' growth and the mechanisms of resistance to HSP90i is crucial for exploiting their clinical potential. Utilizing multi-omics approaches, we identified that ablation of the HSP90beta isoform induces the overexpression of HSP90alpha and extracellular-secreted HSP90alpha (eHSP90alpha). Notably, we found that the absence of HSP90alpha causes downregulation of PTPRC (or CD45) expression and restricts in vivo growth of BCR-ABL1+ leukemia cells. Subsequently, chronic long-term exposure to the clinically advanced HSP90i PU-H71 (Zelavespib) led to copy number gain and mutation (p.S164F) of the HSP90AA1 gene, and HSP90alpha overexpression. In contrast, acquired resistance toward other tested HSP90i (Tanespimycin and Coumermycin A1) was attained by MDR1 efflux pump overexpression. Remarkably, combined CDK7 and HSP90 inhibition display synergistic activity against therapy-resistant BCR-ABL1+ patient leukemia cells via blocking pro-survival HSR and HSP90alpha overexpression, providing a novel strategy to avoid the emergence of resistance against treatment with HSP90i alone.
PXD045105	38057394	Cornification of keratinocytes is associated with differential changes in the catalytic activity and the immunoreactivity of transglutaminase-1. 	TGM1 interaction partners identification reveals possible TGM1 posttranslational modifiers	TGM1, Virotrap, cell model, interaction partners, skin, transglutamination	Transglutaminase 1 (TGM1) plays an essential role in skin barrier formation by cross-linking proteins in differentiated keratinocytes. Here, we established a protocol for the antibody-dependent detection of TGM1 protein and the parallel detection of TGM activity. TGM1 immunoreactivity initially increased and co-localized with membrane-associated TGM activity during keratinocyte differentiation. TGM activity persisted upon further differentiation of keratinocytes, whereas TGM1 immunoreactivity was lost under standard assay conditions. Pretreatment of tissue sections with the proteases trypsin or proteinase K enabled immunodetection of TGM1 in cornified keratinocytes, indicating that removal of other proteins was a prerequisite for TGM1 immunolabeling after cornification. The increase of TGM activity and subsequent loss of TGM1 immunoreactivity could be replicated in HEK293T cells transfected with TGM1, suggesting that protein cross-linking mediated by TGM1 itself may lead to reduced recognition of TGM1 by antibodies. To screen for proteins potentially regulating TGM1, we performed Virotrap experiments and identified the CAPNS1 subunit of calpain as an interaction partner of TGM1. Treatment of keratinocytes and TGM1-transfected HEK293T cells with chemical inhibitors of calpain suppressed transglutamination. Our findings suggest that calpain contributes to the control of TGM1-mediated transglutamination and proteins cross-linked by transglutamination mask epitopes of TGM1.
PXD047152	38059366	Lysine acetylation regulates the AT-rich DNA possession ability of H-NS. 	H-NS LC-MS/MS of Edwardsiella piscicida	Edwardsiella piscicida, H-NS	H-NS, the histone-like nucleoid-structuring protein in bacteria, regulates the stability of the bacterial genome by inhibiting the transcription of horizontally transferred genes, such as the type III and type VI secretion systems (T3/T6SS). While eukaryotic histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) have been extensively studied, little is known about prokaryotic H-NS PTMs. Here, we report that the acetylation of H-NS attenuates its ability to silence horizontally transferred genes in response to amino acid nutrition and immune metabolites. Moreover, LC-MS/MS profiling showed that the acetyllysine sites of H-NS and K120 are indispensable for its DNA-binding ability. Acetylation of K120 leads to a low binding affinity for DNA and enhances T3/T6SS expression. Furthermore, acetylation of K120 impairs the AT-rich DNA recognition ability of H-NS. In addition, lysine acetylation in H-NS modulates in vivo bacterial virulence. These findings reveal the mechanism underlying H-NS PTMs and propose a novel mechanism by which bacteria counteract the xenogeneic silencing of H-NS.
PXD046760	38060380	Molecular determinants of the crosstalk between endosomal microautophagy and chaperone-mediated autophagy. 	SILAC-based quantitative proteomics using mass spectrometry identifies BAG-6 mediated changes in the subproteome degraded by endosomal microautophagy (eMI).	BAG-6 KO, late endosomes, mouse JAWS	Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) and endosomal microautophagy (eMI) are pathways for selective degradation of cytosolic proteins in lysosomes and late endosomes, respectively. These autophagic processes share as a first step the recognition of the same five-amino-acid motif in substrate proteins by the Hsc70 chaperone, raising the possibility of coordinated activity of both pathways. In this work, we show the existence of a compensatory relationship between CMA and eMI and identify a role for the chaperone protein Bag6 in triage and internalization of eMI substrates into late endosomes. Association and dynamics of Bag6 at the late endosome membrane change during starvation, a stressor that, contrary to other autophagic pathways, causes a decline in eMI activity. Collectively, these results show a coordinated function of eMI with CMA, identify the interchangeable subproteome degraded by these pathways, and start to elucidate the molecular mechanisms that facilitate the switch between them.
PXD037670	38060444	ASCL1 characterizes adrenergic neuroblastoma via its pioneer function and cooperation with core regulatory circuit factors. 	ASCL1: a pioneer factor that induces subtype switching and characterizes adrenergic neuroblastoma	ASCL1, Neuroblastoma, core regulatory circuit, pioneer factor, subtype switching	Neuroblastoma originates from developing neural crest and can interconvert between the mesenchymal (MES) and adrenergic (ADRN) states, each of which are controlled by different sets of transcription factors forming the core regulatory circuit (CRC). However, the roles of CRC factors in induction and maintenance of specific state are poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that overexpression of ASCL1, an ADRN CRC factor, in MES neuroblastoma cells opens closed chromatin at the promoters of key ADRN genes, accompanied by epigenetic activation and establishment of enhancer-promoter interactions, initiating the ADRN gene expression program. ASCL1 inhibits the transforming growth factor beta-SMAD2/3 pathway but activates the bone morphogenetic protein SMAD1-ID3/4 pathway. ASCL1 and other CRC members potentiate each other's activity, increasing the expression of the original targets and inducing a new set of genes, thereby fully inducing the ADRN program. Our results demonstrate that ASCL1 serves as a pioneer factor and cooperates with CRC factors to characterize the ADRN gene expression program.
PXD046579	38060449	The ER stress sensor IRE1 interacts with STIM1 to promote store-operated calcium entry, T cell activation, and muscular differentiation. 	The ER stress sensor IRE1 interacts with STIM1 to promote store-operated calcium entry, T cell activation, and muscular differentiation	ER stress, IRE1, SOCE, STIM1	Store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) mediated by stromal interacting molecule (STIM)-gated ORAI channels at endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and plasma membrane (PM) contact sites maintains adequate levels of Ca(2+) within the ER lumen during Ca(2+) signaling. Disruption of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis activates the unfolded protein response (UPR) to restore proteostasis. Here, we report that the UPR transducer inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1) interacts with STIM1, promotes ER-PM contact sites, and enhances SOCE. IRE1 deficiency reduces T cell activation and human myoblast differentiation. In turn, STIM1 deficiency reduces IRE1 signaling after store depletion. Using a CaMPARI2-based Ca(2+) genome-wide screen, we identify CAMKG2 and slc105a as SOCE enhancers during ER stress. Our findings unveil a direct crosstalk between SOCE and UPR via IRE1, acting as key regulator of ER Ca(2+) and proteostasis in T cells and muscles. Under ER stress, this IRE1-STIM1 axis boosts SOCE to preserve immune cell functions, a pathway that could be targeted for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD044312	38060994	Deep Proteomics reveals incorporation of unedited proteins into mitochondrial protein complexes in Arabidopsis. 	Multi-Protease Investigation of Arabidopsis Thaliana Cell Culture Mitochondria	Mitochondria, Multi-Protease, timsTOF Pro	The mitochondrial proteome consists of numerous types of proteins which either are encoded and synthesized in the mitochondria, or encoded in the cell nucleus, synthesized in the cytoplasm and imported into the mitochondria. Their synthesis in the mitochondria, but not in the nucleus, relies on the editing of the primary transcripts of their genes at defined sites. Here, we present an in-depth investigation of the mitochondrial proteome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and a public online platform for the exploration of the data. For the analysis of our shotgun proteomic data, an Arabidopsis sequence database was created comprising all available protein sequences from the TAIR10 and Araport11 databases, supplemented with sequences of proteins translated from edited and non-edited transcripts of mitochondria. Amino acid sequences derived from partially edited transcripts were also added to analyze proteins encoded by the mitochondrial genome. Proteins were digested in parallel with six different endoproteases to obtain maximum proteome coverage. The resulting peptide fractions were finally analyzed using liquid chromatography (LC) coupled to ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). We generated a 'deep mitochondrial proteome' of 4,692 proteins. 1,339 proteins assigned to mitochondria by the SUBA5 database (https://suba.live) accounted for >80% of the total protein mass of our fractions. The coverage of proteins by identified peptides was particularly high compared to single-protease digests, allowing the exploration of differential splicing and RNA editing events at the protein level. We show that proteins translated from non-edited transcripts can be incorporated into native mitoribosomes and the ATP synthase complex. We present a portal for the use of our data, based on 'proteomaps' with directly linked protein data. The portal is available at www.proteomeexplorer.de.
PXD047989	38060995	AIRE is expressed in breast cancer TANs and TAMs to regulate the extrinsic apoptotic pathway and inflammation. 	Project title: Endogenous AIRE-immunoprecipitation from primary human neutrophils	AIRE, Neutrophil	Autoimmune regulator (AIRE) is a transcriptional regulator expressed in the thymus and necessary for maintaining immunological self-tolerance. Extra-thymic AIRE expression is rare and a role for AIRE in tumor-associated innate immune cells has not yet been established. In this study we show that AIRE is expressed in human pro-tumor neutrophils. In breast cancer, AIRE was primarily located to tumor associated neutrophils (TANs), and to a lesser extent to tumor associated macrophages (TAMs) and tumor cells. Expression of AIRE in TAN/TAMs, but not in cancer cells, was associated with an adverse prognosis. We show that the functional role for AIRE in neutrophils and macrophages is to regulate expression of immune mediators and the extrinsic apoptotic pathway involving the Fas/TNFR death receptors and Cathepsin G. We here propose that the role for AIRE in TAN/TAMs in breast tumors is to regulate cell death and inflammation, thus promoting tumor progression.
PXD035708	38062477	Loss of the centrosomal protein ALMS1 alters lipid metabolism and the regulation of extracellular matrix-related processes. 	Loss of centrosomal gene ALMS1 alters lipid metabolism and the regulation of processes linked to the extracellular matrix.	AKT, ALMS1, Alstrm syndrome, LC-ESI-MS/MS, TGF-beta, ciliopathy, primary cilia	BACKGROUND: Alstroem syndrome (ALMS) is a rare autosomal recessive disease that is associated with mutations in ALMS1 gene. The main clinical manifestations of ALMS are retinal dystrophy, obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dilated cardiomyopathy and multi-organ fibrosis, characteristic in kidneys and liver. Depletion of the protein encoded by ALMS1 has been associated with the alteration of different processes regulated via the primary cilium, such as the NOTCH or TGF-beta signalling pathways. However, the cellular impact of these deregulated pathways in the absence of ALMS1 remains unknown. METHODS: In this study, we integrated RNA-seq and proteomic analysis to determine the gene expression profile of hTERT-BJ-5ta ALMS1 knockout fibroblasts after TGF-beta stimulation. In addition, we studied alterations in cross-signalling between the TGF-beta pathway and the AKT pathway in this cell line. RESULTS: We found that ALMS1 depletion affects the TGF-beta pathway and its cross-signalling with other pathways such as PI3K/AKT, EGFR1 or p53. In addition, alterations associated with ALMS1 depletion clustered around the processes of extracellular matrix regulation and lipid metabolism in both the transcriptome and proteome. By studying the enriched pathways of common genes differentially expressed in the transcriptome and proteome, collagen fibril organisation, beta-oxidation of fatty acids and eicosanoid metabolism emerged as key processes altered by the absence of ALMS1. Finally, an overactivation of the AKT pathway was determined in the absence of ALMS1 that could be explained by a decrease in PTEN gene expression. CONCLUSION: ALMS1 deficiency disrupts cross-signalling between the TGF-beta pathway and other dependent pathways in hTERT-BJ-5ta cells. Furthermore, altered cross-signalling impacts the regulation of extracellular matrix-related processes and fatty acid metabolism, and leads to over-activation of the AKT pathway.
PXD042946	38063474	Metaproteomic assessment of gut microbial and host functional perturbations in Helicobacter pylori-infected patients subjected to an antimicrobial protocol. 	Metaproteomic assessment of gut microbial and host functional perturbations in Helicobacter pylori-infected patients subjected to an antimicrobial protocol	Helicobacter, antibiotics, gut microbiota, human microbiome, metaproteomics	The impact of therapeutic interventions on the human gut microbiota (GM) is a clinical issue of paramount interest given the strong interconnection between microbial dynamics and human health. Orally administered antibiotics are known to reduce GM biomass and modify GM taxonomic profile. However, the impact of antimicrobial therapies on GM functions and biochemical pathways has scarcely been studied. Here, we characterized the fecal metaproteome of 10 Helicobacter pylori-infected patients before (T0) and after 10 days (T1) of a successful quadruple therapy (bismuth, tetracycline, metronidazole, and rabeprazole) and 30 days after therapy cessation (T2), to investigate how GM and host functions change during the eradication and healing processes. At T1, the abundance ratio between microbial and host proteins was reversed compared with that at T0 and T2. Several pathobionts (including Klebsiella, Proteus, Enterococcus, Muribaculum, and Enterocloster) were increased at T1. Therapy reshaped the relative contributions of the functions required to produce acetate, propionate, and butyrate. Proteins related to the uptake and processing of complex glycans were increased. Microbial cross-feeding with sialic acid, fucose, and rhamnose was enhanced, whereas hydrogen sulfide production was reduced. Finally, microbial proteins involved in antibiotic resistance and inflammation were more abundant after therapy. Moreover, a reduction in host proteins with known roles in inflammation and H. pylori-mediated carcinogenesis was observed. In conclusion, our results support the use of metaproteomics to monitor drug-induced remodeling of GM and host functions, opening the way for investigating new antimicrobial therapies aimed at preserving gut environmental homeostasis.
PXD038390	38064171	Efferocyte-Derived MCTRs Metabolically Prime Macrophages for Continual Efferocytosis via Rac1-Mediated Activation of Glycolysis. 	ALOX12-expressing macrophages produce MCTRs to promote local efferocytosis and tissue repair	ALOX12, Macrophages, phosphoproteomics	Clearance of multiple rounds of apoptotic cells (ACs) through continual efferocytosis is critical in the maintenance of organ function, the resolution of acute inflammation, and tissue repair. To date, little is known about the nature of mechanisms and factors that govern this fundamental process. Herein, the authors reported that breakdown of ACs leads to upregulation of 12-lipoxygenase in macrophages. This enzyme converts docosahexaenoic acid to maresin conjugates in tissue regeneration (MCTRs). The levels of these autacoids are elevated at sites of high apoptotic burden in vivo and in efferocytosing macrophages in vitro. Abrogation of MCTR production using genetic approaches limits the ability of macrophages to perform continual efferocytosis both in vivo and in vitro, an effect that is rescued by add-back of MCTRs. Mechanistically, MCTR-mediated priming of macrophages for continual efferocytosis is dependent on alterations in Rac1 signalling and glycolytic metabolism. Inhibition of Rac1 abolishes the ability of MCTRs to increase glucose uptake and efferocytosis in vitro, whereas inhibition of glycolysis limits the MCTR-mediated increases in efferocytosis and tissue repair. Together, these findings demonstrate that upregulation of MCTRs by efferocytosing macrophages plays a central role in the regulation of continual efferocytosis via the autocrine and paracrine modulation of metabolic pathways.
PXD042712	38064566	In vivo protein turnover rates in varying oxygen tensions nominate MYBBP1A as a mediator of the hyperoxia response. 	In Vivo Protein Turnover Rates in Varying Oxygen Tensions Nominate MYBBP1A as a Novel Mediator of the Hyperoxia Response	Hyperoxia, Hypoxia, Oxygen, Protein turnover	Oxygen deprivation and excess are both toxic. Thus, the body's ability to adapt to varying oxygen tensions is critical for survival. While the hypoxia transcriptional response has been well studied, the post-translational effects of oxygen have been underexplored. In this study, we systematically investigate protein turnover rates in mouse heart, lung, and brain under different inhaled oxygen tensions. We find that the lung proteome is the most responsive to varying oxygen tensions. In particular, several extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins are stabilized in the lung under both hypoxia and hyperoxia. Furthermore, we show that complex 1 of the electron transport chain is destabilized in hyperoxia, in accordance with the exacerbation of associated disease models by hyperoxia and rescue by hypoxia. Moreover, we nominate MYBBP1A as a hyperoxia transcriptional regulator, particularly in the context of rRNA homeostasis. Overall, our study highlights the importance of varying oxygen tensions on protein turnover rates and identifies tissue-specific mediators of oxygen-dependent responses.
PXD046041	38065301	Proteomic analysis of human sperm reveals changes in protamine 1 phosphorylation in men with infertility. 	Proteomic analysis of human sperm protamines from men with and without infertility	Protamines, male-factor infertility, sperm	OBJECTIVE: To perform a comprehensive assessment of protamine isoforms and modifications in human sperm with the aim of identifying how protamine modifications/isoforms are altered in men with reduced sperm motility and low sperm count. DESIGN: Cross-sectional SETTING: Academic medical center. PATIENTS: 18 men with prior reported pregnancy and normozoospermia (normal sperm), 14 men from couples with infertility and asthenozoospermia (reduced sperm motility), and 24 men from couples with infertility and oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (low sperm count and motility and abnormal sperm morphology). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Proteomic assessment using both Top-down and Bottom-up Liquid-chromatography Mass-Spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis. RESULTS: 13 post-translational modifications were identified on protamine 1 and 2 utilizing bottom-up MS including both phosphorylation and methylation. Top-down MS revealed an unmodified and phosphorylated isoform of protamine 1 and the 3 major isoforms of protamine 2 HP2, HP3, and HP4. Protamine 1 phosphorylation was overall higher in men with male-factor infertility compared to those with normal semen analysis (40.5% vs 32.6 vs p=0.012). There was no difference in protamine post-translational modifications or isoforms of protamine 2 from men with normal vs abnormal fertility. CONCLUSION: Human protamines bear a number of post-translational modifications, with alterations in protamine 1 phosphorylation noted in the setting of male-factor infertility.
PXD037671	38065964	A naturally occurring polyacetylene isolated from carrots promotes health and delays signatures of aging. 	Identification of interaction partners of novel polyacetylene	biotin-label compound, human cell lines	To ameliorate or even prevent signatures of aging in ultimately humans, we here report the identification of a previously undescribed polyacetylene contained in the root of carrots (Daucus carota), hereafter named isofalcarintriol, which we reveal as potent promoter of longevity in the nematode C. elegans. We assign the absolute configuration of the compound as (3 S,8 R,9 R,E)-heptadeca-10-en-4,6-diyne-3,8,9-triol, and develop a modular asymmetric synthesis route for all E-isofalcarintriol stereoisomers. At the molecular level, isofalcarintriol affects cellular respiration in mammalian cells, C. elegans, and mice, and interacts with the alpha-subunit of the mitochondrial ATP synthase to promote mitochondrial biogenesis. Phenotypically, this also results in decreased mammalian cancer cell growth, as well as improved motility and stress resistance in C. elegans, paralleled by reduced protein accumulation in nematodal models of neurodegeneration. In addition, isofalcarintriol supplementation to both wild-type C57BL/6NRj mice on high-fat diet, and aged mice on chow diet results in improved glucose metabolism, increased exercise endurance, and attenuated parameters of frailty at an advanced age. Given these diverse effects on health parameters in both nematodes and mice, isofalcarintriol might become a promising mitohormesis-inducing compound to delay, ameliorate, or prevent aging-associated diseases in humans.
PXD040660	38066290	Light-induced LLPS of the CRY2/SPA1/FIO1 complex regulating mRNA methylation and chlorophyll homeostasis in Arabidopsis. 	An epitranscriptomic mechanism regulating chlorophyll biosynthesis in Arabidopsis	FIONA, chlorophyll, light, m6A	Light regulates chlorophyll homeostasis and photosynthesis via various molecular mechanisms in plants. The light regulation of transcription and protein stability of nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins have been extensively studied, but how light regulation of mRNA metabolism affects abundance of nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins and chlorophyll homeostasis remains poorly understood. Here we show that the blue light receptor cryptochrome 2 (CRY2) and the METTL16-type m(6)A writer FIONA1 (FIO1) regulate chlorophyll homeostasis in response to blue light. In contrast to the CRY2-mediated photo-condensation of the mRNA adenosine methylase (MTA), photoexcited CRY2 co-condenses FIO1 only in the presence of the CRY2-signalling protein SUPPRESSOR of PHYTOCHROME A (SPA1). CRY2 and SPA1 synergistically or additively activate the RNA methyltransferase activity of FIO1 in vitro, whereas CRY2 and FIO1, but not MTA, are required for the light-induced methylation and translation of the mRNAs encoding multiple chlorophyll homeostasis regulators in vivo. Our study demonstrates that the light-induced liquid-liquid phase separation of the photoreceptor/writer complexes is commonly involved in the regulation of photoresponsive changes of mRNA methylation, whereas the different photo-condensation mechanisms of the CRY/FIO1 and CRY/MTA complexes explain, at least partially, the writer-specific functions in plant photomorphogenesis.
PXD044411	38066606	Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli infection causes infiltration of heterophilic granulocytes of chick tracheal by the complement and coagulation cascades pathway. 	Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli infection causes infiltration of heterophilic granulocytes of chick tracheal by the complement and coagulation cascades pathway	AE17, Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Complement and coagulation cascades pathways, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), TMT-sequencing, p	BACKGROUND: Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) causes tracheal damage and heterophilic granulocytic infiltration and inflammation in infected chicks. In this study, we infected chick tracheal tissue with strain AE17 and produced pathological sections with proteomic sequencing. We compared the results of pathological sections from the APEC-infected group with those from the PBS control group; the pathological sections from the experimental group showed hemorrhage, fibrinization, and infiltration of heterophilic granulocytes in the tracheal tissue. In order to explore the effect on proteomics on inflammation and to further search for the caus. RESULTS: The tandem mass tag-based (TMT) sequencing analysis showed 224 upregulated and 140 downregulated proteins after infection with the AE17 strain. Based on the results of KEGG in Complement and coagulation cascades, differential protein expression in the Protein export pathway was upregulated. CONCLUSIONS: With these results, we found that chemokines produced by the Complement and coagulation cascades pathway may cause infiltration of heterophilic granulocytes involved in inflammation, as well as antimicrobial factors produced by the complement system to fight the infection together.These results suggest that APEC causes the infiltration of heterophilic granulocytes through the involvement of the complement system with serine protease inhibitors.
PXD014146	38066636	Phosphoregulation in the N-terminus of NRT2.1 affects nitrate uptake by controlling the interaction of NRT2.1 with NAR2.1 and kinase HPCAL1. 	Phosphoproteome profiling under low nitrate and high nitrate in Arabisopsis wild type roots	Phosphoproteomics, nitrate signaling	NRT2.1, the major high affinity nitrate transporter in roots, can be phosphorylated at five different sites within N- and C-terminus. Here, we characterized the functional relationship of two N-terminal phosphorylation sites, S21 and S28. Based on a site-specific correlation network we identified a receptor kinase (HPCAL1, AT5G49770), phosphorylating NRT2.1 at S21 and resulting in active nitrate uptake. HPCAL1 itself was regulated by phosphorylation at S839 and S870 within its kinase domain. In the active state, when S839 was dephosphorylated and S870 was phosphorylated, HPCAL1 was found to interact with the N-terminus of NRT2.1, mainly when S28 was dephosphorylated. Phosphorylation of NRT2.1 at S21 resulted in a reduced interaction of NRT2.1 with its activator NAR2.1, but nitrate transport activity remained. By contrast, phosphorylated NRT2.1 at S28 enhanced the interaction with NAR2.1, but reduced the interaction with HPCAL1. HPCAL1 here was identified as the kinase affecting this phospho-switch through phosphorylation of NRT2.1 at S21.
PXD028991	38068690	New Insights on the Role of beta-Cyanoalanine Synthase CAS-C1 in Root Hair Elongation through Single-Cell Proteomics. 	New insights on the role of HCN in root hair elongation through single cell proteomics.	cyanide, cyanoalanine, cyanylation, plant	(1) Background: Root hairs are specialized structures involved in water and plant nutrient uptake. They elongate from epidermal cells following a complex developmental program. beta-cyanoalanine synthase (CAS), which is mainly involved in hydrogen cyanide (HCN) detoxification in Arabidopsis thaliana, plays a role in root hair elongation, as evidenced by the fact that cas-c1 mutants show a severe defect in root hair shape. In addition to root hairs, CAS C1 is expressed in the quiescent center and meristem. (2) Methods: To identify its role in root hair formation, we conducted single-cell proteomics analysis by isolating root hair cells using Fluorescence-activated Cell Sorting (FACS) from wild-type and cas-c1 mutants. We also analyzed the presence of S-cyanylation, a protein post-translational modification (PTM) mediated by HCN and affecting cysteine residues and protein activity in proteins of wild type and cas-c1 mutants. (3) Results and Conclusions: We have found that the cas-c1 mutation has no visible effect on quiescent center or meristem root tissue, in both control and nutrient-deprivation conditions. We have identified more than 3900 proteins in root hairs and we have found that several proteins involved in root hair development, related to the receptor kinase FERONIA signaling and DNA methylation, are modified by S-cyanylation.
PXD047111	38070861	Experimental and Computational Analysis of Newly Identified Pathogenic Mutations in the Creatine Transporter SLC6A8. 	Interaction proteomics of WT and disease variants of the human Creatine Transporter (SLC6A8)	AP-MS, Protein interactions, SLC6A8, pathogenic variants	Creatine is an essential metabolite for the storage and rapid supply of energy in muscle and nerve cells. In humans, impaired metabolism, transport, and distribution of creatine throughout tissues can cause varying forms of mental disability, also known as creatine deficiency syndrome (CDS). So far, 80 mutations in the creatine transporter (SLC6A8) have been associated to CDS. To better understand the effect of human genetic variants on the physiology of SLC6A8 and their possible impact on CDS, we studied 30 missense variants including 15 variants of unknown significance, two of which are reported here for the first time. We expressed these variants in HEK293 cells and explored their subcellular localization and transport activity. We also applied computational methods to predict variant effect and estimate site-specific changes in thermodynamic stability. To explore variants that might have a differential effect on the transporter's conformers along the transport cycle, we constructed homology models of the inward facing, and outward facing conformations. In addition, we used mass-spectrometry to study proteins that interact with wild type SLC6A8 and five selected variants in HEK293 cells. In silico models of the protein complexes revealed how two variants impact the interaction interface of SLC6A8 with other proteins and how pathogenic variants lead to an enrichment of ER protein partners. Overall, our integrated analysis disambiguates the pathogenicity of 15 variants of unknown significance revealing diverse mechanisms of pathogenicity, including two previously unreported variants obtained from patients suffering from the creatine deficiency syndrome.
PXD042142	38071202	Amplified fluorogenic immunoassay for early diagnosis and monitoring of Alzheimer's disease from tear fluid. 	Amplified fluorogenic immunoassay for early diagnosis and monitoring of Alzheimer's disease from tear fluid	Alzheimer's disease, immunoassay, magnetic nanoparticles, polymeric nanoprobes, tear fluid	Accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in its earliest stage can prevent the disease and delay the symptoms. Therefore, more sensitive, non-invasive, and simple screening tools are required for the early diagnosis and monitoring of AD. Here, we design a self-assembled nanoparticle-mediated amplified fluorogenic immunoassay (SNAFIA) consisting of magnetic and fluorophore-loaded polymeric nanoparticles. Using a discovery cohort of 21 subjects, proteomic analysis identifies adenylyl cyclase-associated protein 1 (CAP1) as a potential tear biomarker. The SNAFIA demonstrates a low detection limit (236 aM), good reliability (R(2) = 0.991), and a wide analytical range (0.320-1000 fM) for CAP1 in tear fluid. Crucially, in the verification phase with 39 subjects, SNAFIA discriminates AD patients from healthy controls with 90% sensitivity and 100% specificity in under an hour. Utilizing tear fluid as a liquid biopsy, SNAFIA could potentially aid in long-term care planning, improve clinical trial efficiency, and accelerate therapeutic development for AD.
PXD043802	38072043	FOXA2 activates HIF2alpha expression to promote tumor progression and is regulated by the E3 ubiquitin ligase VHL in renal cell carcinoma. 	renal cancer cell line ACHN LC-MSMS	ACHN, renal cancer	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a frequent malignancy of the urinary system with high mortality and morbidity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying RCC progression are still largely unknown. In this study, we identified FOXA2, a pioneer transcription factor, as a driver oncogene for RCC. We show that FOXA2 was commonly upregulated in human RCC samples and promoted renal cancer cell proliferation, as evidenced by assays of cell viability, colony formation, migratory and invasive capabilities, and stemness properties. Mechanistically, we found that FOXA2 promoted RCC cell proliferation by transcriptionally activating HIF2alpha expression in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, we found that FOXA2 could interact with VHL (von Hippel-Lindau), which ubiquitinated FOXA2 and controlled its protein stability in RCC cells. We showed that mutation of lysine at position 264 to arginine in FOXA2 could mostly abrogate its ubiquitination, augment its activation effect on HIF2alpha expression, and promote renal cancer cell proliferation in vitro and RCC progression in vivo. Importantly, elevated expression of FOXA2 in RCC patients positively correlated with the expression of HIF2alpha and was associated with shorter overall and disease-free survival. Together, these findings reveal a novel role of FOXA2 in RCC development and provide insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms of FOXA2-driven pathological processes in RCC.
PXD041366	38072118	Quantitative proteomics of tissue infiltrating T cells from CRC patients identified Lipocalin-2 induces T cell apoptosis and promotes tumor cell proliferation by iron efflux. 	Proteome profiling of colorectal cancer-infiltrating T cells to screen key regulators of CRC progression.	CRC, T cells	T cells play the most pivotal roles in anti-tumor immunity, the T cell proteome and the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the tumor immune microenvironment have rarely been identified directly from the clinical samples, especially for tumors that lack effective immunotherapy targets, such as colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we analyzed the protein expression pattern of the infiltrating T cells isolated from CRC patients using quantitative proteomics. CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells were isolated from clinical samples and labeled by TMT reagents, and the DEPs were quantified by mass spectrometry. The T cell proteome profiling revealed dysfunctions in these tumor-infiltrating T cells. Specifically, anti-tumor immunity was suppressed due to differentially expressed metal ion transporters and immunity regulators. For the first time, Lipocalin-2 (LCN2) was shown to be significantly up-regulated in CD4(+) T cells. Quantitative proteomic analysis of LCN2-overexpressed Jurkat cells showed that LCN2 damaged T cells by changes in iron transport. LCN2 induced T cell apoptosis by reducing cellular iron concentration; moreover, the iron that was transported to the tumor microenvironment aided tumor cell proliferation, promoting tumor development. Meanwhile, LCN2 also influenced tumor progression through immune cytokines and cholesterol metabolism. Our results demonstrated that LCN2 has immunosuppressive functions that can promote tumor development; therefore, it is a potential immunotherapy target for CRC.
PXD009475	38072640	Glucagon Enhances Chemotherapy Efficacy By Inhibition of Tumor Vessels in Colorectal Cancer. 	Human colon LC-MSMS           .	Human,colon,tissue,LC-MSMS	Chemotherapy is widely used to treat colorectal cancer (CRC). Despite its substantial benefits, the development of drug resistance and adverse effects remain challenging. This study aimed to elucidate a novel role of glucagon in anti-cancer therapy. In a series of in vitro experiments, glucagon inhibited cell migration and tube formation in both endothelial and tumor cells. In vivo studies demonstrated decreased tumor blood vessels and fewer pseudo-vessels in mice treated with glucagon. The combination of glucagon and chemotherapy exhibited enhanced tumor inhibition. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that glucagon increased the permeability of blood vessels, leading to a pronounced disruption of vessel morphology. Signaling pathway analysis identified a VEGF/VEGFR-dependent mechanism whereby glucagon attenuated angiogenesis through its receptor. Clinical data analysis revealed a positive correlation between elevated glucagon expression and chemotherapy response. This is the first study to reveal a role for glucagon in inhibiting angiogenesis and vascular mimicry. Additionally, the delivery of glucagon-encapsulated PEGylated liposomes to tumor-bearing mice amplified the inhibition of angiogenesis and vascular mimicry, consequently reinforcing chemotherapy efficacy. Collectively, the findings demonstrate the role of glucagon in inhibiting tumor vessel network and suggest the potential utility of glucagon as a promising predictive marker for patients with CRC receiving chemotherapy.
PXD042106	38072927	Plasma proteomics-based biomarkers for predicting response to mesenchymal stem cell therapy in severe COVID-19. 	Plasma proteomics-based biomarkers for predicting response to mesenchymal stem cell therapy in severe COVID-19	COVID-19, Mesenchymal stem cells	BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to identify potential biomarkers for predicting response to MSC therapy by pre-MSC treatment plasma proteomic profile in severe COVID-19 in order to optimize treatment choice. METHODS: A total of 58 patients selected from our previous RCT cohort were enrolled in this study. MSC responders (n = 35) were defined as whose resolution of lung consolidation >= 51.99% (the median value for resolution of lung consolidation) from pre-MSC to 28 days post-MSC treatment, while non-responders (n = 23) were defined as whose resolution of lung consolidation < 51.99%. Plasma before MSC treatment was detected using data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to identify pre-MSC treatment plasma proteomic biomarkers that might distinguish between responders and non-responders to MSC therapy. RESULTS: In total, 1101 proteins were identified in plasma. Compared with the non-responders, the responders had three upregulated proteins (CSPG2, CTRB1, and OSCAR) and 10 downregulated proteins (ANXA1, AGRG6, CAPG, DDX55, KV133, LEG10, OXSR1, PICAL, PTGDS, and S100A8) in plasma before MSC treatment. Using logistic regression model, lower levels of DDX55, AGRG6, PICAL, and ANXA1 and higher levels of CTRB1 pre-MSC treatment were predictors of responders to MSC therapy, with AUC of the ROC at 0.910 (95% CI 0.818-1.000) in the training set. In the validation set, AUC of the ROC was 0.767 (95% CI 0.459-1.000). CONCLUSIONS: The responsiveness to MSC therapy appears to depend on baseline level of DDX55, AGRG6, PICAL, CTRB1, and ANXA1. Clinicians should take these factors into consideration when making decision to initiate MSC therapy in patients with severe COVID-19.
PXD041275	38073198	Identifying drug targets with thermal proteome profiling using IBT-16plex. 	Identifying Drug Targets with Thermal Proteome Profiling using IBT-16plex	16-plex iBT, TPP, drug target	RATIONALE: Thermal proteome profiling (TPP) has been widely used for the identification of drug targets for several years, and TMTpro-16plex has recently been evaluated for TPP of vehicle- and drug-treated samples in a single labeling process to reduce missing values and save instrument time. A novel isobaric labeling reagent, IBT-16plex, was developed with slightly better performance in protein identification and quantification than the commercially available TMTpro-16plex. METHODS: In this study, we applied the newly developed IBT-16plex for target identification of methotrexate and panobinostat using TPP. RESULTS: The known targets of these two drugs were successfully identified with elevated melting temperatures, and some known off-targets and potential new off-targets were also identified. CONCLUSIONS: IBT-16plex can be a cost-effective replacement for TMTpro-16plex for TPP applications.
PXD044183	38074101	Paralog-specific TTC30 regulation of Sonic hedgehog signaling. 	Paralogue specific TTC30A knockout downregulates Sonic hedgehog signaling	IFT, PKA, Sonic hedgehog signaling, TTC30 paralogues, affinity proteomics, cilia	The intraflagellar transport (IFT) machinery is essential for cilia assembly, maintenance, and trans-localization of signaling proteins. The IFT machinery consists of two large multiprotein complexes, one of which is the IFT-B. TTC30A and TTC30B are integral components of this complex and were previously shown to have redundant functions in the context of IFT, preventing the disruption of IFT-B and, thus, having a severe ciliogenesis defect upon loss of one paralog. In this study, we re-analyzed the paralog-specific protein complexes and discovered a potential involvement of TTC30A or TTC30B in ciliary signaling. Specifically, we investigated a TTC30A-specific interaction with protein kinase A catalytic subunit alpha, a negative regulator of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. Defects in this ciliary signaling pathway are often correlated to synpolydactyly, which, intriguingly, is also linked to a rare TTC30 variant. For an in-depth analysis of this unique interaction and the influence on Shh, TTC30A or B single- and double-knockout hTERT-RPE1 were employed, as well as rescue cells harboring wildtype TTC30 or the corresponding mutation. We could show that mutant TTC30A inhibits the ciliary localization of Smoothened. This observed effect is independent of Patched1 but associated with a distinct phosphorylated PKA substrate accumulation upon treatment with forskolin. This rather prominent phenotype was attenuated in mutant TTC30B. Mass spectrometry analysis of wildtype versus mutated TTC30A or TTC30B uncovered differences in protein complex patterns and identified an impaired TTC30A-IFT57 interaction as the possible link leading to synpolydactyly. We could observe no impact on cilia assembly, leading to the hypothesis that a slight decrease in IFT-B binding can be compensated, but mild phenotypes, like synpolydactyly, can be induced by subtle signaling changes. Our systematic approach revealed the paralog-specific influence of TTC30A KO and mutated TTC30A on the activity of PRKACA and the uptake of Smoothened into the cilium, resulting in a downregulation of Shh. This downregulation, combined with interactome alterations, suggests a potential mechanism of how mutant TTC30A is linked to synpolydactyly.
PXD047028	38074474	Proteomic and computational analyses followed by functional validation of protective effects of trigonelline against calcium oxalate-induced renal cell deteriorations. 	Proteomic and computational analyses followed by functional validation of protective effects of trigonelline against calcium oxalate-induced renal cell deteriorations	Anti-lithiatic, Bioactive compound, Bioinformatics, Coffee, Kidney stone, Reactome	Trigonelline is a phytoalkaloid commonly found in green and roasted coffee beans. It is also found in decaffeinated coffee. Previous report has shown that extract from trigonelline-rich plant exhibits anti-lithiatic effects in a nephrolithiatic rat model. Nevertheless, cellular mechanisms underlying the anti-lithiatic properties of trigonelline remain hazy. Herein, we used nanoLC-ESI-Qq-TOF MS/MS and MaxQuant-based quantitative proteomics to identify trigonelline-induced changes in protein expression in MDCK renal cells. From a total of 1006 and 1011 proteins identified from control and trigonelline-treated cells, respectively, levels of 62 (23 upregulated and 39 downregulated) proteins were significantly changed by trigonelline. Functional enrichment and reactome pathway analyses suggested that these 62 altered proteins were related to stress response, cell cycle and cell polarity. Functional validation by corresponding experimental assays revealed that trigonelline prevented calcium oxalate monohydrate crystal-induced renal cell deteriorations by inhibiting crystal-induced overproduction of intracellular reactive oxygen species, G0/G1 to G2/M cell cycle shift, tight junction disruption, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. These findings provide cellular mechanisms and convincing evidence for the renoprotective effects of trigonelline, particularly in kidney stone prevention.
PXD046530	38076065	Multi-omic diagnostics of prostate cancer in the presence of benign prostatic hyperplasia. 	Multi-omic diagnostics of prostate cancer in the presence of benign prostatic hyperplasia	DIA, Ion Mobility, Multi-OMICS, Prostate Cancer	There is an unmet need for improved diagnostic testing and risk prediction for cases of prostate cancer (PCa) to improve care and reduce overtreatment of indolent disease. Here we have analysed the serum proteome and lipidome of 262 study participants by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, including participants diagnosed with PCa, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), or otherwise healthy volunteers, with the aim of improving biomarker specificity. Although a two-class machine learning model separated PCa from controls with sensitivity of 0.82 and specificity of 0.95, adding BPH resulted in a statistically significant decline in specificity for prostate cancer to 0.76, with half of BPH cases being misclassified by the model as PCa. A small number of biomarkers differentiating between BPH and prostate cancer were identified, including proteins in MAP Kinase pathways, as well as in lipids containing oleic acid; these may offer a route to greater specificity. These results highlight, however, that whilst there are opportunities for machine learning, these will only be achieved by use of appropriate training sets that include confounding comorbidities, especially when calculating the specificity of a test.
PXD046459	38076793	RNA polymerase II transcription with partially assembled TFIID complexes. 	RNA polymerase II transcription with partially assembled TFIID complexes	RNA polymerase, TFIID, Transcription	The recognition of core promoter sequences by the general transcription factor TFIID is the first step in the process of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription initiation. Metazoan holo-TFIID is composed of the TATA binding protein (TBP) and of 13 TBP associated factors (TAFs). Inducible Taf7 knock out (KO) results in the formation of a Taf7-less TFIID complex, while Taf10 KO leads to serious defects within the TFIID assembly pathway. Either TAF7 or TAF10 depletions correlate with the detected TAF occupancy changes at promoters, and with the distinct phenotype severities observed in mouse embryonic stem cells or mouse embryos. Surprisingly however, under either Taf7 or Taf10 deletion conditions, TBP is still associated to the chromatin, and no major changes are observed in nascent Pol II transcription. Thus, partially assembled TFIID complexes can sustain Pol II transcription initiation, but cannot replace holo-TFIID over several cell divisions and/or development.
PXD048465	38076935	Differential CpG methylation at Nnat in the early establishment of beta cell heterogeneity. 	Differential CpG methylation at Nnat in the early establishment of beta cell heterogeneity	Beta cell development, Ca2+, CpG methylation, connectivity, heterogeneity, identity, imprinted genes, insulin, islet, neuronatin, type 2 diabetes.	Aims/hypothesis: Beta cells within the pancreatic islet represent a heterogenous population wherein individual sub-groups of cells make distinct contributions to the overall control of insulin secretion. These include a subpopulation of highly-connected 'hub' cells, important for the propagation of intercellular Ca (2+) waves. Functional subpopulations have also been demonstrated in human beta cells, with an altered subtype distribution apparent in type 2 diabetes. At present, the molecular mechanisms through which beta cell hierarchy is established are poorly understood. Changes at the level of the epigenome provide one such possibility which we explore here by focussing on the imprinted gene neuronatin ( Nnat ), which is required for normal insulin synthesis and secretion. Methods: Single cell RNA-seq datasets were examined using Seurat 4.0 and ClusterProfiler running under R. Transgenic mice expressing eGFP under the control of the Nnat enhancer/promoter regions were generated for fluorescence-activated cell (FAC) sorting of beta cells and downstream analysis of CpG methylation by bisulphite and RNA sequencing, respectively. Animals deleted for the de novo methyltransferase, DNMT3A from the pancreatic progenitor stage were used to explore control of promoter methylation. Proteomics was performed using affinity purification mass spectrometry and Ca (2+) dynamics explored by rapid confocal imaging of Cal-520 and Cal-590. Insulin secretion was measured using Homogeneous Time Resolved Fluorescence Imaging. Results: Nnat mRNA was differentially expressed in a discrete beta cell population in a developmental stage- and DNA methylation (DNMT3A)-dependent manner. Thus, pseudo-time analysis of embryonic data sets demonstrated the early establishment of Nnat -positive and negative subpopulations during embryogenesis. NNAT expression is also restricted to a subset of beta cells across the human islet that is maintained throughout adult life. NNAT (+) beta cells also displayed a discrete transcriptome at adult stages, representing a sub-population specialised for insulin production, reminiscent of recently-described "beta HI " cells and were diminished in db/db mice. 'Hub' cells were less abundant in the NNAT (+) population, consistent with epigenetic control of this functional specialization. Conclusions/interpretation: These findings demonstrate that differential DNA methylation at Nnat represents a novel means through which beta cell heterogeneity is established during development. We therefore hypothesise that changes in methylation at this locus may thus contribute to a loss of beta cell hierarchy and connectivity, potentially contributing to defective insulin secretion in some forms of diabetes. Research in context: What is already known about this subject? - Neuronatin ( Nnat / NNAT ) is an imprinted gene in humans and mice and is required for glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in vivo - Pancreatic beta cells are functionally heterogeneous with specific highly-connected subpopulations known to coordinate islet wide Ca (2+) dynamics - Functional subpopulations have been described in human beta cells and their distribution is altered in type 2 diabetesWhat is the key question?- Does NNAT mark a discrete subpopulation of functional beta cells and which epigenetic pathways coordinate its formation and maintenance?What are the new findings? - A subpopulation of NNAT (+) beta cells is established prior to the first week of postnatal life in mice via de novo DNA methylation at the Nnat promoter - NNAT (+) beta cells are transcriptionally highly differentiated and appear to be functionally specialised for insulin production, possibly corresponding to recently-described "beta HI " and "CD63 (hi) " beta cells. NNAT is expressed in a subset of beta cells across the human islet, and its deficiency in human beta cells diminishes glucose-stimulated insulin secretion - NNAT (+) cells are likelier to belong to the population of 'follower', rather than 'hub' cells, consistent with a role in insulin production rather than glucose detection How might this impact on clinical practice in the foreseeable future?- Epigenome-modifying compounds may provide a way of enhancing beta cell function and the ensemble behaviour of the islet to stimulate insulin secretion.
PXD046791	38077328	The Rac-GEF Tiam1 controls integrin-dependent neutrophil responses. 	The Rac-GEF Tiam1 controls integrin-dependent neutrophil responses	Dock2, Prex1, Rac, Rac-GEF, Tiam1, Vav, neutrophils, small GTPase	Rac GTPases are required for neutrophil adhesion and migration, and for the neutrophil effector responses that kill pathogens. These Rac-dependent functions are impaired when neutrophils lack the activators of Rac, Rac-GEFs from the Prex, Vav, and Dock families. In this study, we demonstrate that Tiam1 is also expressed in neutrophils, governing focal complexes, actin cytoskeletal dynamics, polarisation, and migration, in a manner depending on the integrin ligand to which the cells adhere. Tiam1 is dispensable for the generation of reactive oxygen species but mediates degranulation and NETs release in adherent neutrophils, as well as the killing of bacteria. In vivo, Tiam1 is required for neutrophil recruitment during aseptic peritonitis and for the clearance of Streptococcus pneumoniae during pulmonary infection. However, Tiam1 functions differently to other Rac-GEFs. Instead of promoting neutrophil adhesion to ICAM1 and stimulating beta2 integrin activity as could be expected, Tiam1 restricts these processes. In accordance with these paradoxical inhibitory roles, Tiam1 limits the fMLP-stimulated activation of Rac1 and Rac2 in adherent neutrophils, rather than activating Rac as expected. Tiam1 promotes the expression of several regulators of small GTPases and cytoskeletal dynamics, including alphaPix, Psd4, Rasa3, and Tiam2. It also controls the association of Rasa3, and potentially alphaPix, Git2, Psd4, and 14-3-3zeta/delta, with Rac. We propose these latter roles of Tiam1 underlie its effects on Rac and beta2 integrin activity and on cell responses. Hence, Tiam1 is a novel regulator of Rac-dependent neutrophil responses that functions differently to other known neutrophil Rac-GEFs.
PXD047027	38079448	Functional and biochemical characterisation of the Toxoplasma gondii succinate dehydrogenase complex. 	Immunoprecipitation of Toxoplasma gondii succinate dehydrogenase complex	Immunoprecipitation, Succinate dehydrogenase, Toxoplasma gondii	The mitochondrial electron transport chain (mETC) is a series of membrane embedded enzymatic complexes critical for energy conversion and mitochondrial metabolism. In commonly studied eukaryotes, including humans and animals, complex II, also known as succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), is an essential four-subunit enzyme that acts as an entry point to the mETC, by harvesting electrons from the TCA cycle. Apicomplexa are pathogenic parasites with significant impact on human and animal health. The phylum includes Toxoplasma gondii which can cause fatal infections in immunocompromised people. Most apicomplexans, including Toxoplasma, rely on their mETC for survival, yet SDH remains largely understudied. Previous studies pointed to a divergent apicomplexan SDH with nine subunits proposed for the Toxoplasma complex, compared to four in humans. While two of the nine are homologs of the well-studied SDHA and B, the other seven have no homologs in SDHs of other systems. Moreover, SDHC and D, that anchor SDH to the membrane and participate in substrate bindings, have no homologs in Apicomplexa. Here, we validated five of the seven proposed subunits as bona fide SDH components and demonstrated their importance for SDH assembly and activity. We further find that all five subunits are important for parasite growth, and that disruption of SDH impairs mitochondrial respiration and results in spontaneous initiation of differentiation into bradyzoites. Finally, we provide evidence that the five subunits are membrane bound, consistent with their potential role in membrane anchoring, and we demonstrate that a DY motif in one of them, SDH10, is essential for complex formation and function. Our study confirms the divergent composition of Toxoplasma SDH compared to human, and starts exploring the role of the lineage-specific subunits in SDH function, paving the way for future mechanistic studies.
PXD044224	38081814	DeepRTAlign: toward accurate retention time alignment for large cohort mass spectrometry data analysis. 	DeepRTAlign: toward accurate retention time alignment for large cohort mass spectrometry data analysis	large cohort, retention time alignment	Retention time (RT) alignment is a crucial step in liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based proteomic and metabolomic experiments, especially for large cohort studies. The most popular alignment tools are based on warping function method and direct matching method. However, existing tools can hardly handle monotonic and non-monotonic RT shifts simultaneously. Here, we develop a deep learning-based RT alignment tool, DeepRTAlign, for large cohort LC-MS data analysis. DeepRTAlign has been demonstrated to have improved performances by benchmarking it against current state-of-the-art approaches on multiple real-world and simulated proteomic and metabolomic datasets. The results also show that DeepRTAlign can improve identification sensitivity without compromising quantitative accuracy. Furthermore, using the MS features aligned by DeepRTAlign, we trained and validated a robust classifier to predict the early recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma. DeepRTAlign provides an advanced solution to RT alignment in large cohort LC-MS studies, which is currently a major bottleneck in proteomics and metabolomics research.
PXD043212	38081847	GRAF1 integrates PINK1-Parkin signaling and actin dynamics to mediate cardiac mitochondrial homeostasis. 	Identification of GRAF1 interactome mediated by GRAF1 phosphorylation in response to Mitophagy	GRAF1, Mitophagy, PINK1-Parkin pathway, heart	The serine/threonine kinase, PINK1, and the E3 ubiquitin ligase, Parkin, are known to facilitate LC3-dependent autophagosomal encasement and lysosomal clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria, and defects in this process contribute to a variety of cardiometabolic and neurological diseases. Although recent evidence indicates that dynamic actin remodeling plays an important role in PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitochondrial autophagy (mitophagy), the underlying signaling mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we identify the RhoGAP GRAF1 (Arhgap26) as a PINK1 substrate that regulates mitophagy. GRAF1 promotes the release of damaged mitochondria from F-actin anchors, regulates mitochondrial-associated Arp2/3-mediated actin remodeling and facilitates Parkin-LC3 interactions to enhance mitochondria capture by autophagosomes. Graf1 phosphorylation on PINK1-dependent sites is dysregulated in human heart failure, and cardiomyocyte-restricted Graf1 depletion in mice blunts mitochondrial clearance and attenuates compensatory metabolic adaptations to stress. Overall, we identify GRAF1 as an enzyme that coordinates cytoskeletal and metabolic remodeling to promote cardioprotection.
PXD046829	38082099	SARS-COV-2 Omicron variants conformationally escape a rare quaternary antibody binding mode. 	Identification of SARS-COV-2 specific antibodies from patient serum during the First Wave of the COVID-19 pandemic	Ig-SEQ, IgG, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, SARS-COV-2, serum antibody profiling	The ongoing evolution of SARS-CoV-2 into more easily transmissible and infectious variants has provided unprecedented insight into mutations enabling immune escape. Understanding how these mutations affect the dynamics of antibody-antigen interactions is crucial to the development of broadly protective antibodies and vaccines. Here we report the characterization of a potent neutralizing antibody (N3-1) identified from a COVID-19 patient during the first disease wave. Cryogenic electron microscopy revealed a quaternary binding mode that enables direct interactions with all three receptor-binding domains of the spike protein trimer, resulting in extraordinary avidity and potent neutralization of all major variants of concern until the emergence of Omicron. Structure-based rational design of N3-1 mutants improved binding to all Omicron variants but only partially restored neutralization of the conformationally distinct Omicron BA.1. This study provides new insights into immune evasion through changes in spike protein dynamics and highlights considerations for future conformationally biased multivalent vaccine designs.
PXD035722	38084438	G3BP1 and SLU7 Jointly Promote Immune Evasion by Downregulating MHC-I via PI3K/Akt Activation in Bladder Cancer. 	The interactome of G3BP1 in UMUC3 cells	Bladder cancer, G3BP1, UMUC3	Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) show promise as second-line treatment for advanced bladder cancer (BLCA); however, their responsiveness is limited by the immune evasion mechanisms in tumor cells. This study conduct a Cox regression analysis to screen mRNA-binding proteins and reveals an association between Ras GTPase-activating protein-binding protein 1 (G3BP1) and diminished effectiveness of ICI therapy in patients with advanced BLCA. Subsequent investigation demonstrates that G3BP1 enhances immune evasion in BLCA cells by downregulating major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) through phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling activation. Mechanistically, G3BP1 interacts with splicing factor synergistic lethal with U5 snRNA 7 (SLU7) to form a complex with poly(A)-binding protein cytoplasmic 1 and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4 gamma 1. This complex stabilizes the closed-loop structure of the mRNAs of class IA PI3Ks and consequently facilitates their translation and stabilization, thereby activating PI3K/Akt signaling to downregulate MHC-I. Consistently, targeting G3BP1 with epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) impedes immune evasion and sensitizes BLCA cells to anti-programmed cell death (PD)-1 antibodies in mice. Thus, G3BP1 and SLU7 collaboratively contribute to immune evasion in BLCA, indicating that EGCG is a precision therapeutic agent to enhance the effectiveness of anti-PD-1 therapy.
PXD045327	38085607	Design and Development of IKZF2 and CK1alpha Dual Degraders. 	Design and development of IKZF2 and CK1alpha dual degraders	Protein degradation, molecular glue	Lenalidomide achieves its therapeutic efficacy by recruiting and removing proteins of therapeutic interest through the E3 ligase substrate adapter cereblon. Here, we report the design and characterization of 81 cereblon ligands for their ability to degrade the transcription factor Helios (IKZF2) and casein kinase 1 alpha (CK1alpha). We identified a key naphthamide scaffold that depleted both intended targets in acute myeloid leukemia MOLM-13 cells. Structure-activity relationship studies for degradation of the desired targets over other targets (IKZF1, GSPT1) afforded an initial lead compound DEG-35. A subsequent scaffold replacement campaign identified DEG-77, which selectively degrades IKZF2 and CK1alpha, and possesses suitable pharmacokinetic properties, solubility, and selectivity for in vivo studies. Finally, we show that DEG-77 has antiproliferative activity in the diffuse large B cell lymphoma cell line OCI-LY3 and the ovarian cancer cell line A2780 indicating that the dual degrader strategy may have efficacy against additional types of cancer.
PXD046731	38085828	Integrative Multianalytical Model Based on Novel Plasma Protein Biomarkers for Distinguishing Lung Adenocarcinoma and Benign Pulmonary Nodules. 	Integrative Multianalytical Model Based on Novel Plasma Protein Biomarkers for Distinguishing Lung Adenocarcinoma and Benign Pulmonary Nodules	Benign pulmonary nodules, Differential diagnosis, Integrative multianalytical model, Lung adenocarcinoma, Plasma proteomics	Given the pressing clinical problem of making a decision in diagnosis for subjects with pulmonary nodules, we aimed to discover novel plasma protein biomarkers for lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and benign pulmonary nodules (BPNs) and then develop an integrative multianalytical model to guide the clinical management of LUAD and BPN patients. Through label-free quantitative plasma proteomic analysis (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD046731), 12 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in LUAD and BPN were screened. The diagnostic abilities of DEPs were validated in two independent validation cohorts. The results showed that the levels of three candidate proteins (PRDX2, PON1, and APOC3) were lower in the plasma of LUAD than in BPN. The three candidate proteins were combined with three promising computed tomography indicators (spiculation, vascular notch sign, and lobulation) and three traditional markers (CEA, CA125, and CYFRA21-1) to construct an integrative multianalytical model, which was effective in distinguishing LUAD from BPN, with an AUC of 0.904, a sensitivity of 81.44%, and a specificity of 90.14%. Moreover, the model possessed impressive diagnostic performance between early LUADs and BPNs, with the AUC, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 0.868, 65.63%, 90.14%, and 82.52%, respectively. This model may be a useful auxiliary diagnostic tool for LUAD and BPN by achieving a better balance of sensitivity and specificity.
PXD045508	38086949	A pilot study on the immune cell proteome of long COVID patients shows changes to physiological pathways similar to those in myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome. 	Immune cell proteomes of Long COVID patients have functional changes similar to those in Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.	Long COVID, ME/CFS, SWATH-MS	Of those infected with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), ~ 10% develop the chronic post-viral debilitating condition, long COVID (LC). Although LC is a heterogeneous condition, about half of cases have typical post-viral fatigue with onset and symptoms that are very similar to myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). A key question is whether these conditions are closely related. ME/CFS is a post-stressor fatigue condition that arises from multiple triggers. To investigate the pathophysiology of LC, a pilot study of patients (n = 6) and healthy controls (n = 5) has used quantitative proteomics to discover changes in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) proteins. A principal component analysis separated all long COVID patients from healthy controls. Analysis of 3131 proteins identified 162 proteins differentially regulated, of which 37 were related to immune functions, and 21 to mitochondrial functions. Markov cluster analysis identified clusters involved in immune system processes, and two aspects of gene expression-spliceosome and transcription. These results were compared with an earlier dataset of 346 differentially regulated proteins in PBMC's from ME/CFS patients (n = 9) analysed by the same methodology. There were overlapping protein clusters and enriched molecular pathways particularly in immune functions, suggesting the two conditions have similar immune pathophysiology as a prominent feature, and mitochondrial functions involved in energy production were affected in both conditions.
PXD041125	38087165	Pathological Deficit of Cystatin B Impairs Synaptic Plasticity in EPM1 Human Cerebral Organoids. 	Pathological deficit of Cystatin B impairs synaptic plasticity in EPM1 human cerebral organoids	EPM1, cystatin B, synaptic plasticity	Cystatin B (CSTB) is a small protease inhibitor protein being involved in cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation. Loss-of-function mutations in CSTB gene cause progressive myoclonic epilepsy 1 (EPM1). We previously demonstrated that CSTB is locally synthesized in synaptic nerve terminals from rat brain and secreted into the media, indicating its role in synaptic plasticity. In this work, we have further investigated the involvement of CSTB in synaptic plasticity, using synaptosomes from human cerebral organoids (hCOs) as well as from rodents' brain. Our data demonstrate that CSTB is released from synaptosomes in two ways: (i) as a soluble protein and (ii) in extracellular vesicles-mediated pathway. Synaptosomes isolated from hCOs are enriched in pre-synaptic proteins and contain CSTB at all developmental stages analyzed. CSTB presence in the synaptic territories was also confirmed by immunostaining on human neurons in vitro. To investigate if the depletion of CSTB affects synaptic plasticity, we characterized the synaptosomes from EPM1 hCOs. We found that the levels of presynaptic proteins and of an initiation factor linked to local protein synthesis were both reduced in EPM1 hCOs and that the extracellular vesicles trafficking pathway was impaired. Moreover, EPM1 neurons displayed anomalous morphology with longer and more branched neurites bearing higher number of intersections and nodes, suggesting connectivity alterations. In conclusion, our data strengthen the idea that CSTB plays a critical role in the synapse physiology and reveal that pathologically low levels of CSTB may affect synaptic plasticity, leading to synaptopathy and altered neuronal morphology.
PXD047427	38087340	SARS-CoV-2-infected hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes reveal dynamic changes in the COVID-19 hearts. 	SARS-CoV-2-Infected hiPSC-Derived Cardiomyocytes Reveal Dynamic Changes in the COVID-19 Hearts	COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, heart, hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes	BACKGROUND: The ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has had an enormous impact on our societies. Moreover, the disease's extensive and sustained symptoms are now becoming a nonnegligible medical challenge. In this respect, data indicate that heart failure is one of the most common readmission diagnoses among COVID-19 patients. METHODS: In this study, we used human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived cardiomyocytes to develop an in vitro model of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection and studied the dynamic changes occurring in cardiomyocytes after SARS-CoV-2 infection. RESULTS: To this end, we have created an effective time series SARS-CoV-2 infection model exhibiting different functional patterns of up- and downregulated proteins, and demonstrating that SARS-CoV-2 mainly affects (i) the lipid and the energy metabolism of hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes during the early infection stage, and (ii) the DNA repair ability of cardiomyocytes during the late infection stage. By analyzing the proteome changes occurring at different infection timepoints, we were able to observe that the simulated disease (COVID-19) course developed rapidly, and that each of the studied timepoints was characterized by a distinct protein expression pattern. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the importance of early detection and personalized treatment based on the disease stage. Finally, by combing the proteomics data with virus-host interaction network analysis, we were able to identify several potential drug targets for the disease.
PXD044274	38087504	Data-independent acquisition proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid implicates endoplasmic reticulum and inflammatory mechanisms in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	Data-independent acquisition proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid implicates endoplasmic reticulum and inflammatory mechanisms in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Biomarker, CSF, DIA	While unbiased proteomics of human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has been used successfully to identify biomarkers of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), high-abundance proteins mask the presence of lower abundance proteins that may have diagnostic and prognostic value. However, developments in mass spectrometry (MS) proteomic data acquisition methods offer improved protein depth. In this study, MS with library-free data-independent acquisition (DIA) was used to compare the CSF proteome of people with ALS (n = 40), healthy (n = 15) and disease (n = 8) controls. Quantified protein groups were subsequently correlated with clinical variables. Univariate analysis identified 7 proteins, all significantly upregulated in ALS versus healthy controls, and 9 with altered abundance in ALS versus disease controls (FDR < 0.1). Elevated chitotriosidase-1 (CHIT1) was common to both comparisons and was proportional to ALS disability progression rate (Pearson r = 0.41, FDR-adjusted p = 0.035) but not overall survival. Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase isozyme L1 (UCHL1; upregulated in ALS versus healthy controls) was proportional to disability progression rate (Pearson r = 0.53, FDR-adjusted p = 0.003) and survival (Kaplan Meier log-rank p = 0.013) but not independently in multivariate proportional hazards models. Weighted correlation network analysis was used to identify functionally relevant modules of proteins. One module, enriched for inflammatory functions, was associated with age at symptom onset (Pearson r = 0.58, FDR-adjusted p = 0.005) and survival (Hazard Ratio = 1.78, FDR = 0.065), and a second module, enriched for endoplasmic reticulum proteins, was negatively correlated with disability progression rate (r = -0.42, FDR-adjusted p = 0.109). DIA acquisition methodology therefore strengthened the biomarker candidacy of CHIT1 and UCHL1 in ALS, while additionally highlighted inflammatory and endoplasmic reticulum proteins as novel sources of prognostic biomarkers.
PXD032194	38088930	Cell stretching activates an ATM mechano-transduction pathway that remodels cytoskeleton and chromatin. 	ATM interactome and analysis of its substrates	interactome, nLC-MS-MS, phosphorylated proteins	Ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) DNA damage response (DDR) kinases contain elastic domains. ATM also responds to reactive oxygen species (ROS) and ATR to nuclear mechanical stress. Mre11 mediates ATM activation following DNA damage; ATM mutations cause ataxia telangiectasia (A-T). Here, using in vivo imaging, electron microscopy, proteomic, and mechano-biology approaches, we study how ATM responds to mechanical stress. We report that cytoskeleton and ROS, but not Mre11, mediate ATM activation following cell deformation. ATM deficiency causes hyper-stiffness, stress fiber accumulation, Yes-associated protein (YAP) nuclear enrichment, plasma and nuclear membrane alterations during interstitial migration, and H3 hyper-methylation. ATM locates to the actin cytoskeleton and, following cytoskeleton stress, promotes phosphorylation of key cytoskeleton and chromatin regulators. Our data contribute to explain some clinical features of patients with A-T and pinpoint the existence of an integrated mechano-response in which ATM and ATR have distinct roles unrelated to their canonical DDR functions.
PXD044579	38090270	Biomarker study of symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis in patients with acute ischemic stroke. 	Biomarker study of symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis in patients with acute ischemic stroke	4D Label-free proteome quantification technology, Acute ischemic stroke, Recurrence, biomarkers, sICAS	Objective: Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is characterized by high rates of morbidity, disability, mortality, and recurrence, often leaving patients with varying degrees of sequelae. Symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (sICAS) is a significant contributor to AIS pathogenesis and recurrence. The formation and progression of sICAS are influenced by pathways such as lipid metabolism and inflammatory response. Given its high risk of clinical recurrence, timely assessment of intracranial vascular stenosis in AIS is crucial for diagnosing sICAS, treating stroke, and preventing stroke recurrence. Methods: Fourteen AIS patients were divided into stenosis and control groups based on the presence or absence of intracranial vessel stenosis. Initially, 4D Label-free proteome quantification technology was employed for mass spectrometry analysis to identify differential proteins between the groups. Subsequently, functional enrichment analysis, including GO classification, KEGG pathway, and Domain, revealed trends related to differential proteins. The STRING (v.11.5) protein interaction network database was used to identify differential protein interactions and target proteins. Finally, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) validated the selected target proteins. Results: Mass spectrometry identified 1,096 proteins, with 991 being quantitatively comparable. Using a p-value <0.05 and differential expression change thresholds of >1.3 for significant up-regulation and < 1/1.3 for significant down-regulation, 46 differential proteins were identified: 24 significantly up-regulated and 22 significantly down-regulated. PRM experiments validated five proteins related to lipid metabolism and inflammatory response: namely alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M), lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP), cathepsin G (CTSG), cystatin (CST)3, and fatty acid-binding protein (FABP)1. Conclusion: The detection of changes in these five proteins in AIS patients can aid in the diagnosis of sICAS, inform stroke treatment, and assist in preventing stroke recurrence. Moreover, it can contribute to the development of drugs for preventing AIS recurrence by integrating traditional Chinese and Western medicine.
PXD046519	38091986	Integrated omics landscape of hepatocellular carcinoma suggests proteomic subtypes for precision therapy. 	Multiomics analysis revealed proteomic subtyping of hepatocellular carcinoma guide the precise therapy of sorafenib	Multiomics, hepatocellular carcinoma, proteomic subtyping, sorafenib	Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) at the same clinical stage can have extremely different prognoses, and molecular subtyping provides an opportunity for individualized precision treatment. In this study, genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic profiling of primary tumor tissues and paired para-tumor tissues from HCC patients (N = 160) are integrated. Proteomic profiling identifies three HCC subtypes with different clinical prognosis, which are validated in three publicly available external validation sets. A simplified panel of nine proteins associated with metabolic reprogramming is further identified as a potential subtype-specific biomarker for clinical application. Multi-omics analysis further reveals that three proteomic subtypes have significant differences in genetic alterations, microenvironment dysregulation, kinase-substrate regulatory networks, and therapeutic responses. Patient-derived cell-based drug tests (N = 26) show personalized responses for sorafenib in three proteomic subtypes, which can be predicted by a machine-learning response prediction model. Overall, this study provides a valuable resource for better understanding of HCC subtypes for precision clinical therapy.
PXD043638	38092518	Restrictor synergizes with Symplekin and PNUTS to terminate extragenic transcription. 	Restrictor synergizes with Symplekin and PNUTS to terminate extragenic transcription	ZC3H4, ranscription termination	Transcription termination pathways mitigate the detrimental consequences of unscheduled promiscuous initiation occurring at hundreds of thousands of genomic cis-regulatory elements. The Restrictor complex, composed of the Pol II-interacting protein WDR82 and the RNA-binding protein ZC3H4, suppresses processive transcription at thousands of extragenic sites in mammalian genomes. Restrictor-driven termination does not involve nascent RNA cleavage, and its interplay with other termination machineries is unclear. Here we show that efficient termination at Restrictor-controlled extragenic transcription units involves the recruitment of the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) regulatory subunit PNUTS, a negative regulator of the SPT5 elongation factor, and Symplekin, a protein associated with RNA cleavage complexes but also involved in cleavage-independent and phosphatase-dependent termination of noncoding RNAs in yeast. PNUTS and Symplekin act synergistically with, but independently from, Restrictor to dampen processive extragenic transcription. Moreover, the presence of limiting nuclear levels of Symplekin imposes a competition for its recruitment among multiple transcription termination machineries, resulting in mutual regulatory interactions. Hence, by synergizing with Restrictor, Symplekin and PNUTS enable efficient termination of processive, long-range extragenic transcription.
PXD042658	38093015	In vitro production of cat-restricted Toxoplasma pre-sexual stages. 	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic characterization of T. gondii AP2XI-2 and AP2XII-1 interactomes	AP2 transcription factors, Toxoplasma gondii, interactomes, nanoLC-MS/MS	Sexual reproduction of Toxoplasma gondii, confined to the felid gut, remains largely uncharted owing to ethical concerns regarding the use of cats as model organisms. Chromatin modifiers dictate the developmental fate of the parasite during its multistage life cycle, but their targeting to stage-specific cistromes is poorly described(1,2). Here we found that the transcription factors AP2XII-1 and AP2XI-2 operate during the tachyzoite stage, a hallmark of acute toxoplasmosis, to silence genes necessary for merozoites, a developmental stage critical for subsequent sexual commitment and transmission to the next host, including humans. Their conditional and simultaneous depletion leads to a marked change in the transcriptional program, promoting a full transition from tachyzoites to merozoites. These in vitro-cultured pre-gametes have unique protein markers and undergo typical asexual endopolygenic division cycles. In tachyzoites, AP2XII-1 and AP2XI-2 bind DNA as heterodimers at merozoite promoters and recruit MORC and HDAC3 (ref. (1)), thereby limiting chromatin accessibility and transcription. Consequently, the commitment to merogony stems from a profound epigenetic rewiring orchestrated by AP2XII-1 and AP2XI-2. Successful production of merozoites in vitro paves the way for future studies on Toxoplasma sexual development without the need for cat infections and holds promise for the development of therapies to prevent parasite transmission.
PXD041427	38093017	Tumour circular RNAs elicit anti-tumour immunity by encoding cryptic peptides. 	Tumor-specific circRNAs elicit anti-tumor immune response via encoding cryptic antigenic peptides	cryptic antigen	Emerging data have shown that previously defined noncoding genomes might encode peptides that bind human leukocyte antigen (HLA) as cryptic antigens to stimulate adaptive immunity(1,2). However, the significance and mechanisms of action of cryptic antigens in anti-tumour immunity remain unclear. Here mass spectrometry of the HLA class I (HLA-I) peptidome coupled with ribosome sequencing of human breast cancer samples identified HLA-I-binding cryptic antigenic peptides that were noncanonically translated by a tumour-specific circular RNA (circRNA): circFAM53B. The cryptic peptides efficiently primed naive CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in an antigen-specific manner and induced anti-tumour immunity. Clinically, the expression of circFAM53B and its encoded peptides was associated with substantial infiltration of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells and better survival in patients with breast cancer and patients with melanoma. Mechanistically, circFAM53B-encoded peptides had strong binding affinity to both HLA-I and HLA-II molecules. In vivo, administration of vaccines consisting of tumour-specific circRNA or its encoded peptides in mice bearing breast cancer tumours or melanoma induced enhanced infiltration of tumour-antigen-specific cytotoxic T cells, which led to effective tumour control. Overall, our findings reveal that noncanonical translation of circRNAs can drive efficient anti-tumour immunity, which suggests that vaccination exploiting tumour-specific circRNAs may serve as an immunotherapeutic strategy against malignant tumours.
PXD042517	38095282	Postnatal persistence of hippocampal Cajal-Retzius cells has a critical role in the establishment of the hippocampal circuit. 	Postnatal persistence of hippocampal Cajal-Retzius cells has a critical role in the establishment of the hippocampal circuit	CA1 SLM, Cajal-Retzius cells, brain tissue, cell ablation, development, hippocampal circuit, hippocampus, transgenic mouse line, viral vector injection	Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells are a transient neuron type that populate the postnatal hippocampus. To understand how CR cells' persistence influences the maturation of hippocampal circuits, we combined a specific transgenic mouse line with viral vector injection to selectively ablate CR cells from the postnatal hippocampus. We observed layer-specific changes in the dendritic complexity and spine density of CA1 pyramidal cells. In addition, transcriptomic analysis highlighted significant changes in the expression of synaptic related genes across development. Finally, we were able to identify significant changes in the expression levels of Latrophilin-2, a postsynaptic guidance molecule known for its role in the entorhinal-hippocampal connectivity. Those findings were supported by changes in the synaptic proteomic content in CA1 stratum lacunosum-moleculare. Our results reveal a critical role of CR cells in the establishment of the hippocampal network.
PXD040461	38095456	Flagellar interference with plasmid uptake in biofilms: a joint experimental and modeling study. 	Proteomics profiling of xanthomonas retroflexus colony variants	biofilm, colony morphology, flagella, xantomonas retroflexus	IMPORTANCE: Biofilms are the dominant form of microbial life and bacteria living in biofilms are markedly different from their planktonic counterparts, yet the impact of the biofilm lifestyle on horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is still poorly understood. Horizontal gene transfer by conjugative plasmids is a major driver in bacterial evolution and adaptation, as exemplified by the troubling spread of antibiotic resistance. To either limit or promote plasmid prevalence and dissemination, we need a better understanding of plasmid transfer between bacterial cells, especially in biofilms. Here, we identified a new factor impacting the transfer of plasmids, flagella, which are required for many types of bacterial motility. We show that their absence or altered activity can lead to enhanced plasmid uptake in two bacterial species, Xanthomonas retroflexus and Pseudomonas putida. Moreover, we demonstrate the utility of mathematical modeling to eliminate hypothetical mechanisms.
PXD023328	38095536	Osimertinib covalently binds to CD34 and eliminates myeloid leukemia stem/progenitor cells. 	CD34 is a drug target for AML and CML	AML, CD34, CML, Tyr-phospho proteome, affinity MS	Osimertinib is a third-generation covalent epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor that is used in treating non-small cell lung cancer. First-generation EGFR inhibitors were found to elicit pro-differentiation effect on acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells in preclinical studies, but clinical trials yielded mostly negative results. Here, we report that osimertinib selectively induced apoptosis of CD34+ leukemia stem/progenitor cells but not CD34- cells in EGFR-negative acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Covalent binding of osimertinib to CD34 at cysteines 199 and 177 and suppression of Src family kinases (SFK) and downstream STAT3 activation contributed to osimertinib-induced cell death. SFK and STAT3 inhibition induced synthetic lethality with osimertinib in primary CD34+ cells. CD34 expression was elevated in AML cells compared to their normal counterparts. Genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic profiling identified mutation and gene expression signatures of AML patients with high CD34 expression, and univariate and multivariate analyses indicated the adverse prognostic significance of high expression of CD34. Osimertinib treatment induced responses in AML patient-derived xenograft models that correlated with CD34 expression while sparing normal CD34+ cells. Clinical responses were observed in two CD34high AML patients who were treated with osimertinib on a compassionate-use basis. These findings reveal the therapeutic potential of osimertinib for treating CD34high AML and CML and describe an EGFR-independent mechanism of osimertinib-induced cell death in myeloid leukemia.
PXD041021	38095639	XAF1 promotes colorectal cancer metastasis via VCP-RNF114-JUP axis. 	Gel-based LC-MSMS, the interactome of XAF1 in 293T cells	CoIP sample, XAF1	Metastasis is the main cause of colorectal cancer (CRC)-related death, and the 5-year relative survival rate for CRC patients with distant metastasis is only 14%. X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP)-associated factor 1 (XAF1) is a zinc-rich protein belonging to the interferon (IFN)-induced gene family. Here, we report a metastasis-promoting role of XAF1 in CRC by acting as a novel adaptor of valosin-containing protein (VCP). XAF1 facilitates VCP-mediated deubiquitination of the E3 ligase RING finger protein 114 (RNF114), which promotes K48-linked ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of junction plakoglobin (JUP). The XAF1-VCP-RNF114-JUP axis is critical for the migration and metastasis of CRC cells. Moreover, we observe correlations between the protein levels of XAF1, RNF114, and JUP in clinical samples. Collectively, our findings reveal an oncogenic function of XAF1 in mCRC and suggest that the XAF1-VCP-RNF114-JUP axis is a potential therapeutic target for CRC treatment.
PXD041735	38096371	Mezigdomide is effective alone and in combination with Menin inhibition in pre-clinical models of KMT2A-r and NPM1c AML. 	Mezigdomide is effective alone and in combination with Menin inhibition in Acute Myeloid Leukemia	IKAROS, MENIN-KMT2A, Menin inhibitor, Mezigdomide, acute myeloid leukemia	Small molecules that target the MENIN-KMT2A protein-protein interaction (Menin inhibitors) have recently entered clinical trials in lysine methyltransferase 2A (KMT2A, MLL1) rearranged (KMT2A-r) and nucleophosmin mutant (NPM1c) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and are demonstrating encouraging results. However, rationally chosen combination therapy is needed to improve responses and prevent resistance. We have previously identified IKZF1/IKAROS as a target in KMT2A-r AML and shown in preclinical models that IKAROS protein degradation with lenalidomide or iberdomide has modest single-agent activity yet can synergize with Menin inhibitors. Recently, the novel IKAROS degrader mezigdomide was developed with greatly enhanced IKAROS protein degradation. In this study we show that mezigdomide has increased preclinical activity in vitro as a single-agent in KMT2A-r and NPM1c AML cell lines, including sensitivity in cell lines resistant to lenalidomide and iberdomide. Further, we demonstrate that mezigdomide has the greatest capacity to synergize with and induce apoptosis in combination with Menin inhibitors, including in MEN1 mutant models. We show that the superior activity of mezigdomide compared to lenalidomide or iberdomide is due to its increased depth, rate, and duration of IKAROS protein degradation. Single-agent mezigdomide was efficacious in five patient derived xenograft (PDX) models of KMT2A-r and one NPM1c AML. The combination of mezigdomide with the Menin inhibitor VTP-50469 increased survival and prevented and overcame MEN1 mutations that mediate resistance in patients receiving Menin inhibitor monotherapy. These results support prioritization of mezigdomide for early phase clinical trials in KMT2A-r and NPM1c AML, either as a single-agent or in combination with Menin inhibitors.
PXD038615	38096902	Structures, functions, and adaptations of the human LINE-1 ORF2 protein. 	LINE-1 ORF2p Structure. BS3 crosslinks	ORF2 ORF2p LINE-1 BS3 Structural Proteomics	The LINE-1 (L1) retrotransposon is an ancient genetic parasite that has written around one third of the human genome through a "copy-and-paste" mechanism catalyzed by its multifunctional enzyme, open reading frame 2 protein (ORF2p)(1). ORF2p reverse transcriptase (RT) and endonuclease activities have been implicated in the pathophysiology of cancer(2,3), autoimmunity(4,5), and aging(6,7), making ORF2p a potential therapeutic target. However, a lack of structural and mechanistic knowledge has hampered efforts to rationally exploit it. We report structures of the human ORF2p 'core' (residues 238-1061, including the RT domain) by X-ray crystallography and cryo-EM in multiple conformational states. Our analyses reveal two novel folded domains, extensive contacts to RNA templates, and associated adaptations that contribute to unique aspects of the L1 replication cycle. Computed integrative structural models of full-length ORF2p show a dynamic closed ring conformation that appears to open during retrotransposition. We characterize ORF2p RT inhibition and reveal its underlying structural basis. Imaging and biochemistry reveal that non-canonical cytosolic ORF2p RT activity can produce RNA:DNA hybrids, activating innate immune signaling via cGAS/STING and resulting in interferon production(6-8). In contrast to retroviral RTs, L1 RT is efficiently primed by short RNAs and hairpins, which likely explains cytosolic priming. Additional biochemical activities including processivity, DNA-directed polymerization, non-templated base addition, and template switching together allow us to propose an updated L1 insertion model. Finally, our evolutionary analysis reveals structural conservation between ORF2p and other RNA- and DNA-dependent polymerases. We therefore provide key mechanistic insights into L1 polymerization and insertion, shed light on L1 evolutionary history, and enable rational drug development targeting L1.
PXD046070	38097184	A rapid, tag-free way to purify functional GPCRs. 	A rapid, tag-free way to purify functional GPCRs	GPCP purification, affinity purification, in-gel digestion, protein identification	G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) play diverse signaling roles and represent major pharmaceutical targets. Consequently, they are the focus of intense study, and numerous advances have been made in their handling and analysis. However, a universal way to purify GPCRs has remained elusive, in part due to their inherent instability when isolated from cells. To address this, we have developed a general, rapid and tag-free way to purify GPCRs. The method uses short peptide analogues of the Galpha subunit C-terminus (Galpha-CT) that are attached to chromatography beads (Galpha-CT resin). Because the Galpha-CT peptides bind active GPCRs with high affinity, the Galpha-CT resin selectively purifies only active, functional receptors. We use this method to purify both rhodopsin and the beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2AR) and show they can be purified in either active or inactive conformations, simply by varying elution conditions. While simple in concept-leveraging the conserved GPCR / Galpha-CT binding interaction for the purpose of GPCR purification-we think this approach holds excellent potential to isolate functional receptors for a myriad of uses, from structural biology to proteomics.
PXD039449	38097606	Proximity extracellular protein-protein interaction analysis of EGFR using AirID-conjugated fragment of antigen binding. 	Proximity biotinylation of Expi293F cells overexpressing EGFR by EGFR-FabID	EGFR, Expi293F, FabID, proximity biotinylation	Receptor proteins, such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), interact with other proteins in the extracellular region of the cell membrane to drive intracellular signalling. Therefore, analysis of extracellular protein-protein interactions (exPPIs) is important for understanding the biological function of receptor proteins. Here, we present an approach using a proximity biotinylation enzyme (AirID) fusion fragment of antigen binding (FabID) to analyse the proximity exPPIs of EGFR. AirID was C-terminally fused to the Fab fragment against EGFR (EGFR-FabID), which could then biotinylate the extracellular region of EGFR in several cell lines. Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis indicated that many known EGFR interactors were identified as proximity exPPIs, along with many unknown candidate interactors, using EGFR-FabID. Interestingly, these proximity exPPIs were influenced by treatment with EGF ligand and its specific kinase inhibitor, gefitinib. These results indicate that FabID provides accurate proximity exPPI analysis of target receptor proteins on cell membranes with ligand and drug responses.
PXD037042	38098491	Leishmania infection upregulates and engages host macrophage Argonaute 1, and system-wide proteomics reveals Argonaute 1-dependent host response. 	Characterization of Argonaute-containing protein complexes in Leishmania-infected human macrophages	LCMSMS, Leishmania, Macrophage, RNAi	Leishmania donovani, an intracellular protozoan parasite, is the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis, the most severe form of leishmaniasis in humans. It is becoming increasingly clear that several intracellular pathogens target host cell RNA interference (RNAi) pathways to promote their survival. Complexes of Argonaute proteins with small RNAs are core components of the RNAi. In this study, we investigated the potential role of host macrophage Argonautes in Leishmania pathogenesis. Using Western blot analysis of Leishmania donovani-infected macrophages, we show here that Leishmania infection selectively increased the abundance of host Argonaute 1 (Ago1). This increased abundance of Ago1 in infected cells also resulted in higher levels of Ago1 in active Ago-complexes, suggesting the preferred use of Ago1 in RNAi in Leishmania-infected cells. This analysis used a short trinucleotide repeat containing 6 (TNRC6)/glycine-tryptophan repeat protein (GW182) protein-derived peptide fused to Glutathione S-transferase as an affinity matrix to capture mature Ago-small RNAs complexes from the cytosol of non-infected and Leishmania-infected cells. Furthermore, Ago1 silencing significantly reduced intracellular survival of Leishmania, demonstrating that Ago1 is essential for Leishmania pathogenesis. To investigate the role of host Ago1 in Leishmania pathogenesis, a quantitative whole proteome approach was employed, which showed that expression of several previously reported Leishmania pathogenesis-related proteins was dependent on the level of macrophage Ago1. Together, these findings identify Ago1 as the preferred Argonaute of RNAi machinery in infected cells and a novel and essential virulence factor by proxy that promotes Leishmania survival.
PXD045796	38099269	Secreted HLA-Fc fusion profiles immunopeptidome in hypoxic PDAC and cellular senescence. 	Secreted HLA Fc-Fusion Profiles Immunopeptidome in Hypoxic PDAC and Cellular Senescence	Hypoxia, Immunopeptidomics, Secreted HLA, Senescence	Human leukocyte antigens (HLA) present peptides largely from intracellular proteins on cell surfaces. As these complexes can serve as biomarkers in disease, proper identification of peptides derived from disease-associated antigens and the corresponding presenting HLA is important for the design and execution of therapeutic strategies. Yet, current mass spectrometry methods for immunopeptidomic profiling require large and complex sample inputs, hindering the study of certain disease phenotypes and lowering confidence in peptide and allele identification. Here, we describe a secreted HLA (sHLA)-Fc fusion construct for simple single HLA allele profiling in hypoxic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and cellular senescence. This method streamlines sample preparation, enables temporal control, and provides allele-restricted target identification. Over 30,000 unique HLA-associated peptides were identified across 2 different HLA alleles and 7 cell lines, with ~9,300 peptides newly discovered. The sHLA-Fc fusion capture technology holds the potential to expedite immunopeptidomics and advance therapeutic interest in HLA-peptide complexes.
PXD035745	38099525	Proteomic Analysis Based on TMT Regarding the Therapeutic Action of Rhizoma Drynariae on Rats in an Osteoporosis Model. 	Proteomic Analysis Based on TMT Regarding the Therapeutic Action of Rhizoma Drynariae on Rats in an Osteoporosis Model	Osteoporosis, Ovariectomized, Rats, Rhizoma Drynariae, TMT .	BACKGROUND: Primary osteoporosis has increasingly become one of the risk factors affecting human health, and the clinical effect and action mechanism of traditional Chinese medicine in the treatment of primary osteoporosis have been widely studied. Previous studies have confirmed that in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), Drynaria rhizome has a role in improving bone density. In this study, a tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomic analysis was conducted to derive potential targets for Drynaria rhizome treatment in postmenopausal osteoporosis. METHODS: The model group (OVX) and experimental group (OVXDF) for menopausal osteoporosis were established using the universally acknowledged ovariectomy method, and the OVXDF group was given 0.48g/kg Rhizoma Drynariae solution by gavage for 12 weeks. After 12 weeks, femurs of rats selected for this study were examined with a bone mineral density (BMD) test, Micro-CT, ELISABiochemical testing, hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining, and immunohistochemistry. A certain portion of the bone tissue was studied with a TMT-based proteomic analysis and functional and pathway enrichment analysis. Finally, key target genes were selected for Western blotting for validation. RESULTS: The comparison of the OVXDF and OVX groups indicated that Drynaria rhizome could improve bone density. In the TMT-based proteomic analysis, the comparison of these two groups revealed a total of 126 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), of which 62 were upregulated and 64 were downregulated. Further, by comparing the differential genes between the OVXDF and OVX groups and between the OVX and SHAM groups, we concluded that the 27 differential genes were significantly changed in the rats selected for the osteoporosis model after Drynaria rhizome intragastric administration. The gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis of DEPs showed that molecular function was mainly involved in biological processes, such as glucose metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, immune responses, and aging. A Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis of DEPs revealed that multiple differential genes were enriched in the estrogen and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathways. Relationships with nitrogen metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, secretion systems, and tumor diseases were also observed. Western blotting was consistent with the analysis. CONCLUSIONS: We used TMT-based proteomics to analyze the positive effects of TCM Drynaria rhizome, which can regulate related proteins through the unique roles of multiple mechanisms, targets, and pathways. This treatment approach can regulate oxidative stress, improve lipid metabolism, reduce the inflammatory response mechanism, and improve bone density. These benefits highlight the unique advantages of TCM in the treatment of primary osteoporosis.
PXD043035	38101749	Ginsenoside Rb2 inhibits p300-mediated SF3A2 acetylation at lysine 10 to promote Fscn1 alternative splicing against myocardial ischemic/reperfusion injury. 	Quantitative proteomics investigation of total protein and acetylated 4D Label free of 18 samples from H9C2 cells	4D label free, H9C2 cells, acetylated proteomics, ginsenosides, ischemia-reperfusion injury, oxygen-glucose deprivation	INTRODUCTION: Ginsenosides (GS) derived from Panax ginseng can regulate protein acetylation to promote mitochondrial function for protecting cardiomyocytes. However, the potential mechanisms of GS for regulating acetylation modification are not yet clear. OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to explore the potential mechanisms of GS in regulating protein acetylation and identify ginsenoside monomer for fighting myocardial ischemia-related diseases. METHODS: The 4D-lable free acetylomic analysis was employed to gain the acetylated proteins regulated by GS pretreatment. The co-immunoprecipitation assay, immunofluorescent staining, and mitochondrial respiration measurement were performed to detect the effect of GS or ginsenoside monomer on acetylated protein level and mitochondrial function. RNA sequencing, site-specific mutation, and shRNA interference were used to explore the downstream targets of acetylation modificationby GS. Cellular thermal shift assay and surface plasmon resonance were used for identifying the binding of ginsenoside with target protein. RESULTS: In the cardiomyocytes of normal, oxygen glucose deprivation and/or reperfusion conditions, the acetylomic analysis identified that the acetylated levels of spliceosome proteins were inhibited by GS pretreatment and SF3A2 acetylation at lysine 10 (K10) was significantly decreased as a potential target of GS. Ginsenoside Rb2 was identified as one of the active ginsenoside monomers for reducing the acetylation of SF3A2 (K10), which enhanced mitochondrial respiration against myocardial ischemic injury in in vivo and in vitro experiments. RNA-seq analysis showed that ginsenoside Rb2 promoted alternative splicing of mitochondrial function-related genes and the level of fascin actin-bundling protein 1 (Fscn1) was obviously upregulated, which was dependent on SF3A2 acetylation. Critically, thermodynamic, kinetic and enzymatic experiments demonstrated that ginsenoside Rb2 directly interacted with p300 for inhibiting its activity. CONCLUSION: These findings provide a novel mechanism underlying cardiomyocyte protection of ginsenoside Rb2 by inhibiting p300-mediated SF3A2 acteylation for promoting Fscn1 expression, which might be a promising approach for the prevention and treatment of myocardial ischemic diseases.
PXD042225	38101751	Proteoform-resolved profiling of plasminogen activation reveals novel abundant phosphorylation site and primary N-terminal cleavage site. 	Plasminogen proteoform profiling	Plasminogen Serum PTM	Plasminogen, the zymogen of plasmin, is a glycoprotein involved in fibrinolysis and a wide variety of other physiological processes. Plasminogen dysregulation has been implicated in a range of diseases. Classically, human plasminogen is categorized into two types, supposedly having different functional features, based on the presence (type I) or absence (type II) of a single N-linked glycan. Using high-resolution native mass spectrometry (native MS), we uncover that the proteoform profiles of human plasminogen (and plasmin) are substantially more extensive than this simple binary classification. In samples derived from human plasma, we identified up to 14 distinct proteoforms of plasminogen, including a novel, highly stoichiometric phosphorylation site at Ser339. To elucidate the potential functional effects of these post-translational modifications, we performed proteoform-resolved kinetic analyses of the plasminogen-to-plasmin conversion using several canonical activators. This conversion is thought to involve at least two independent cleavage events: one to remove the N-terminal peptide, and another to release the active catalytic site. Our analyses reveal that these processes are not independent but are instead tightly regulated and occur in a step-wise manner. Notably, N-terminal cleavage at the canonical site (Lys77) does not occur directly from intact plasminogen. Instead, an activation intermediate corresponding to cleavage at Arg68 is initially produced, which only then is further processed to the canonical Lys77 product. Based on our results, we propose a refined categorization for human plasminogen proteoforms. Additionally, we reveal that the proteoform profile of human plasminogen is more extensive than that of rat plasminogen, which lacks, for instance, the here-described phosphorylation at Ser339.
PXD042470	38102401	The centrosomal protein 131 participates in the regulation of mitochondrial apoptosis. 	The Centriolar Satellite Component CEP131 timely regulates mitochondrial Apoptosis	Apoptosis, CEP131, Centriolar satellites, Mitochondria	Centriolar satellites are multiprotein aggregates that orbit the centrosome and govern centrosome homeostasis and primary cilia formation. In contrast to the scaffold PCM1, which nucleates centriolar satellites and has been linked to microtubule dynamics, autophagy, and intracellular trafficking, the functions of its interactant CEP131 beyond ciliogenesis remain unclear. Using a knockout strategy in a non-ciliary T-cell line, we report that, although dispensable for centriolar satellite assembly, CEP131 participates in optimal tubulin glycylation and polyglutamylation, and microtubule regrowth. Our unsupervised label-free proteomic analysis by quantitative mass spectrometry further uncovered mitochondrial and apoptotic signatures. CEP131-deficient cells showed an elongated mitochondrial network. Upon cell death inducers targeting mitochondria, knockout cells displayed delayed cytochrome c release from mitochondria, subsequent caspase activation, and apoptosis. This mitochondrial permeabilization defect was intrinsic, and replicable in vitro with isolated organelles. These findings extend CEP131 functions to life-and-death decisions and propose ways to interfere with mitochondrial apoptosis.
PXD038507	38103252	Circulating proteomic biomarkers for diagnosing sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a cross-sectional study. 	Investigation of circulating proteomic biomarkers for diagnosis of sporadic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	label-free quantitative proteomics, serum, sporadic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	JOURNAL/nrgr/04.03/01300535-202408000-00039/figure1/v/2023-12-16T180322Z/r/image-tiff Biomarkers are required for the early detection, prognosis prediction, and monitoring of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a progressive disease. Proteomics is an unbiased and quantitative method that can be used to detect neurochemical signatures to aid in the identification of candidate biomarkers. In this study, we used a label-free quantitative proteomics approach to screen for substantially differentially regulated proteins in ten patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis compared with five healthy controls. Substantial upregulation of serum proteins related to multiple functional clusters was observed in patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Potential biomarkers were selected based on functionality and expression specificity. To validate the proteomics profiles, blood samples from an additional cohort comprising 100 patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and 100 healthy controls were subjected to enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Eight substantially upregulated serum proteins in patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis were selected, of which the cathelicidin-related antimicrobial peptide demonstrated the best discriminative ability between patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and healthy controls (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.713, P < 0.0001). To further enhance diagnostic accuracy, a multi-protein combined discriminant algorithm was developed incorporating five proteins (hemoglobin beta, cathelicidin-related antimicrobial peptide, talin-1, zyxin, and translationally-controlled tumor protein). The algorithm achieved an AUC of 0.811 and a P-value of < 0.0001, resulting in 79% sensitivity and 71% specificity for the diagnosis of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Subsequently, the ability of candidate biomarkers to discriminate between early-stage amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients and controls, as well as patients with different disease severities, was examined. A two-protein panel comprising talin-1 and translationally-controlled tumor protein effectively distinguished early-stage amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients from controls (AUC = 0.766, P < 0.0001). Moreover, the expression of three proteins (FK506 binding protein 1A, cathelicidin-related antimicrobial peptide, and hemoglobin beta-1) was found to increase with disease progression. The proteomic signatures developed in this study may help facilitate early diagnosis and monitor the progression of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis when used in combination with current clinical-based parameters.
PXD042268	38103643	CTRP6 promotes the macrophage inflammatory response, and its deficiency attenuates LPS-induced inflammation. 	CTRP6 promotes macrophage inflammatory response and its deficiency attenuates LPS-induced inflammation	CTRP, LPS, inflammation, macrophage, phosphoproteomics, signaling, transcriptomics	Macrophages play critical roles in inflammation and tissue homeostasis, and their functions are regulated by various autocrine, paracrine, and endocrine factors. We have previously shown that CTRP6, a secreted protein of the C1q family, targets both adipocytes and macrophages to promote obesity-linked inflammation. However, the gene programs and signaling pathways directly regulated by CTRP6 in macrophages remain unknown. Here, we combine transcriptomic and phosphoproteomic analyses to show that CTRP6 activates inflammatory gene programs and signaling pathways in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). Treatment of BMDMs with CTRP6 upregulated proinflammatory, and suppressed the anti-inflammatory, gene expression. We also showed that CTRP6 activates p44/42-MAPK, p38-MAPK, and NF-kappaB signaling pathways to promote inflammatory cytokine secretion from BMDMs, and that pharmacologic inhibition of these signaling pathways markedly attenuated the effects of CTRP6. Pretreatment of BMDMs with CTRP6 also sensitized and potentiated the BMDMs response to LPS-induced inflammatory signaling and cytokine secretion. Consistent with the metabolic phenotype of proinflammatory macrophages, CTRP6 treatment induced a shift toward aerobic glycolysis and lactate production, reduced oxidative metabolism, and elevated mitochondrial ROS production in BMDMs. Importantly, in accordance with our in vitro findings, BMDMs from CTRP6-deficient mice were less inflammatory at baseline and showed a marked suppression of LPS-induced inflammatory gene expression and cytokine secretion. Finally, loss of CTRP6 in mice also dampened LPS-induced inflammation and hypothermia. Collectively, our findings suggest that CTRP6 regulates and primes the macrophage response to inflammatory stimuli and thus may have a role in modulating tissue inflammatory tone in different physiological and disease contexts.
PXD047878	38105998	Tumor-selective effects of active RAS inhibition in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. 	Tumor-selective effects of active RAS inhibition in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, KPC, PDAC, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), RAS, RMC-7977	Broad-spectrum RAS inhibition holds the potential to benefit roughly a quarter of human cancer patients whose tumors are driven by RAS mutations. However, the impact of inhibiting RAS functions in normal tissues is not known. RMC-7977 is a highly selective inhibitor of the active (GTP-bound) forms of KRAS, HRAS, and NRAS, with affinity for both mutant and wild type (WT) variants. As >90% of human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cases are driven by activating mutations in KRAS , we assessed the therapeutic potential of RMC-7977 in a comprehensive range of PDAC models, including human and murine cell lines, human patient-derived organoids, human PDAC explants, subcutaneous and orthotopic cell-line or patient derived xenografts, syngeneic allografts, and genetically engineered mouse models. We observed broad and pronounced anti-tumor activity across these models following direct RAS inhibition at doses and concentrations that were well-tolerated in vivo . Pharmacological analyses revealed divergent responses to RMC-7977 in tumor versus normal tissues. Treated tumors exhibited waves of apoptosis along with sustained proliferative arrest whereas normal tissues underwent only transient decreases in proliferation, with no evidence of apoptosis. Together, these data establish a strong preclinical rationale for the use of broad-spectrum RAS inhibition in the setting of PDAC.
PXD044705	38107255	Interactions of Histone Deacetylase 6 with DNA Damage Repair Factors Strengthen its Utility as a Combination Drug Target in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer. 	Interactions of Histone Deacetylase 6 with DNA damage repair fac-tors strengthens its utility as a combination drug target in high-grade serous ovarian cancer	LC-MS, hdacs, histone deacetylase 6, ovarian cancer, protein-protein interaction	High-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) is the deadliest gynecologic malignancy in women. The low survival rate is largely due to drug resistance. Approximately 80% of patients who initially respond to treatment relapse and become drug-resistant. The lack of effective second-line therapeutics remains a substantial challenge for BRCA-1/2 wild-type HGSOC patients. Histone Deacetylases (HDACs) are promising targets in HGSOC treatment; however, the mechanism and efficacy of HDAC inhibitors are understudied in HGSOC. In order to consider HDACs as a treatment target, an improved understanding of their function within HGSOC is required. This includes elucidating HDAC6-specific protein-protein interactions. In this study, we carried out substrate trapping followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to elucidate HDAC6 catalytic domain (CD)-specific interactors in the context of BRCA-1/2 wild-type HGSOC. Overall, this study identified new HDAC6 substrates that may be unique to HGSOC. The HDAC6-CD1 mutant condition contained the largest number of significant proteins compared to the CD2 mutant and the CD1/2 mutant conditions, suggesting the HDAC6-CD1 domain has catalytic activity that is independent of CD2. Among the identified substrates were proteins involved in DNA damage repair including PARP proteins. These findings further justify the use of HDAC inhibitors as a combination treatment with platinum chemotherapy agents and PARP inhibitors in HGSOC.
PXD040640	38107577	Proteomic profiling of serum exosomes reveals acute phase response and promotion of inflammatory and platelet activation pathways in patients with heat stroke. 	Proteomic Profiling of Serum Exosomes in Patients with Heat Stroke	Exosome, Heat stroke, proteomic profilling	Background: The pathological mechanism of heat stroke (HS) involves the acute phase response, unbalanced immunological/inflammatory reactions, and coagulation initiation, especially platelet activation. Although exosomes contain proteins involved in these biological processes, their protein cargo levels and potential roles in HS remain unknown. This study explored the serum exosome protein expression patterns after HS and their potential roles in the pathogenesis of HS. Methods: Blood samples were collected from ten patients diagnosed with HS upon admission to the intensive care unit (six with severe HS and four with mild HS). Samples from six healthy volunteers were included as control. Using ultracentrifugation, exosomes were prudently isolated, and their protein contents were profiled using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis with isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification-based proteomics. Results: Compared with healthy volunteers, patients with HS showed significant changes in the levels of 33 exosomal proteins (23 upregulated and 10 downregulated). The most upregulated proteins included serum amyloid A-1 (SAA-1), von Willebrand factor (vWF), S100A8, and histone H3. In addition, SAA-1, vWF, platelet membrane glycoprotein, S100A8, and histone H3 were more enriched in the exosomes from patients with severe HS than from those with mild HS. Gene ontology analysis revealed that the HS-modulated exosomal proteins were mostly related to inflammatory response, including the acute-phase response, platelet activation/degranulation, and innate immune response. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis revealed significant enrichment of proteins in the IL-17 signaling pathway, platelet activation, neutrophil extracellular trap formation, Fc epsilon RI signaling pathway, chemokine signaling pathway, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, among others. Several serum exosomal proteins, including SAA-1, vWF, and S100A8, which are related to the acute phase, inflammatory response, and platelet activation, were confirmed to be elevated in patients with HS, and were significantly correlated with disease severity, organ dysfunction, and death. Conclusion: Overall, this study explores the potential role of the serum exosomal proteome in the inflammatory response and platelet activation in HS, suggests the pathological mechanisms underlying HS-induced injuries, and recommends reliable exosomal biomarkers for predicting HS prognosis.
PXD047413	38109529	Endocannabinoid biosynthetic enzymes regulate pain response via LKB1-AMPK signaling. 	Endocannabinoid biosynthetic enzymes regulate pain response via LKB1-AMPK signaling	AMPK, activity based protein profiling, diacylglycerol lipase, endocannabinoids, inflammation	Diacylglycerol lipase-beta (DAGLbeta) serves as a principal 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) biosynthetic enzyme regulating endocannabinoid and eicosanoid metabolism in immune cells including macrophages and dendritic cells. Genetic or pharmacological inactivation of DAGLbeta ameliorates inflammation and hyper-nociception in preclinical models of pathogenic pain. These beneficial effects have been assigned principally to reductions in downstream proinflammatory lipid signaling, leaving alternative mechanisms of regulation largely underexplored. Here, we apply quantitative chemical- and phospho-proteomics to find that disruption of DAGLbeta in primary macrophages leads to LKB1-AMPK signaling activation, resulting in reprogramming of the phosphoproteome and bioenergetics. Notably, AMPK inhibition reversed the antinociceptive effects of DAGLbeta blockade, thereby directly supporting DAGLbeta-AMPK crosstalk in vivo. Our findings uncover signaling between endocannabinoid biosynthetic enzymes and ancient energy-sensing kinases to mediate cell biological and pain responses.
PXD039834	38109791	Site-specific glycosylation analysis of epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (ErbB2): exploring structure and function toward therapeutic targeting. 	Site-specific glycan analysis of epidermal growth factor receptor 2	ErbB2, HER2, glycosylation	Glycans found on receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) have emerged as promising targets for cancer chemotherapy, aiming to address issues such as drug resistance. However, to effectively select the target glycans, it is crucial to define the structure and function of candidate glycans in advance. Through mass spectrometric analysis, this study presents a "glycoform atlas" of epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (ErbB2), an RTK targeted for the treatment of ErbB2-positive cancers. Our analysis provides an in-depth and site-specific glycosylation profile, including both asparagine- and serine/threonine-linked glycosylation. Molecular dynamics simulations of N-glycosylated ErbB2 incorporating the identified glycan structures suggested that the N-glycan at N124 on the long flexible loop in the N-terminal region plays a role in stabilizing the ErbB2 structure. Based on the model structures obtained from the simulations, analysis employing an ErbB2 mutant deficient in N-glycosylation at N124 exhibited a significantly shorter intracellular half-life and suppressed autophosphorylation compared to wild-type ErbB2. Moreover, a structural comparison between the N-glycosylated forms of ErbB2 and its structurally homologous receptor, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), demonstrated distinct variations in the distribution and density of N-glycans across these two molecules. These findings provide valuable insights into the structural and functional implications of ErbB2 glycosylation and will contribute to facilitating the establishment of glycan-targeted therapeutic strategies for ErbB2-positive cancers.
PXD043773	38110035	Peptide toxins that target vertebrate voltage-gated sodium channels underly the painful stings of harvester ants. 	Peptide toxins that target vertebrate voltage-gated sodium channels underly the painful stings of harvester ants	ants, defence, hymenoptera, pain, venoms	Harvester ants (genus Pogonomyrmex) are renowned for their stings which cause intense, long-lasting pain and other neurotoxic symptoms in vertebrates. Here we show that harvester ant venoms are relatively simple and composed largely of peptide toxins. One class of peptides is primarily responsible for the long-lasting local pain of envenomation via activation of peripheral sensory neurons. These hydrophobic, cysteine-free peptides potently modulate mammalian voltage-gated sodium (NaV) channels, reducing the voltage threshold for activation and inhibiting channel inactivation. These toxins appear to have evolved specifically to deter vertebrates.
PXD046887	38110372	Proteomics-driven noninvasive screening of circulating serum protein panels for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. 	study on serum proteomics based on mass spectrometry	protein, serum	Early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) lacks highly sensitive and specific protein biomarkers. Here, we describe a staged mass spectrometry (MS)-based discovery-verification-validation proteomics workflow to explore serum proteomic biomarkers for HCC early diagnosis in 1002 individuals. Machine learning model determined as P4 panel (HABP2, CD163, AFP and PIVKA-II) clearly distinguish HCC from liver cirrhosis (LC, AUC 0.979, sensitivity 0.925, specificity 0.915) and healthy individuals (HC, AUC 0.992, sensitivity 0.975, specificity 1.000) in an independent validation cohort, outperforming existing clinical prediction strategies. Furthermore, the P4 panel can accurately predict LC to HCC conversion (AUC 0.890, sensitivity 0.909, specificity 0.877) with predicting HCC at a median of 11.4 months prior to imaging in prospective external validation cohorts (No.: Keshen 2018_005_02 and NCT03588442). These results suggest that proteomics-driven serum biomarker discovery provides a valuable reference for the liquid biopsy, and has great potential to improve early diagnosis of HCC.
PXD047350	38110414	Functional-metabolic coupling in distinct renal cell types coordinates organ-wide physiology and delays premature ageing. 	A study of proteomics changes in the Drosophila renal tubules during ageing	Drosophila, renal tubule	Precise coupling between cellular physiology and metabolism is emerging as a vital relationship underpinning tissue health and longevity. Nevertheless, functional-metabolic coupling within heterogenous microenvironments in vivo remains poorly understood due to tissue complexity and metabolic plasticity. Here, we establish the Drosophila renal system as a paradigm for linking mechanistic analysis of metabolism, at single-cell resolution, to organ-wide physiology. Kidneys are amongst the most energetically-demanding organs, yet exactly how individual cell types fine-tune metabolism to meet their diverse, unique physiologies over the life-course remains unclear. Integrating live-imaging of metabolite and organelle dynamics with spatio-temporal genetic perturbation within intact functional tissue, we uncover distinct cellular metabolic signatures essential to support renal physiology and healthy ageing. Cell type-specific programming of glucose handling, PPP-mediated glutathione regeneration and FA beta-oxidation via dynamic lipid-peroxisomal networks, downstream of differential ERR receptor activity, precisely match cellular energetic demands whilst limiting damage and premature senescence; however, their dramatic dysregulation may underlie age-related renal dysfunction.
PXD036799	38110636	A data analysis framework for combining multiple batches increases the power of isobaric proteomics experiments. 	InterBatch Benchmarking Experiment for Isobaric Proteomics	Isobaric, TMT, two-species interference model	We present a framework for the analysis of multiplexed mass spectrometry proteomics data that reduces estimation error when combining multiple isobaric batches. Variations in the number and quality of observations have long complicated the analysis of isobaric proteomics data. Here we show that the power to detect statistical associations is substantially improved by utilizing models that directly account for known sources of variation in the number and quality of observations that occur across batches.In a multibatch benchmarking experiment, our open-source software (msTrawler) increases the power to detect changes, especially in the range of less than twofold changes, while simultaneously increasing quantitative proteome coverage by utilizing more low-signal observations. Further analyses of previously published multiplexed datasets of 4 and 23 batches highlight both increased power and the ability to navigate complex missing data patterns without relying on unverifiable imputations or discarding reliable measurements.
PXD042839	38111000	Comparative proteomic analysis of wall-forming bodies and oocyst wall reveals the molecular basis underlying oocyst wall formation in Eimeria necatrix. 	Eimeria necatrix Wall-Forming Bodies and Oocyst Wall Proteomic Analysis by Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) Labeling and Liquid Chromatography Tandem-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) Techniques	Comparative proteomics, Eimeria necatrix, Oocyst wall, TMT, Wall-forming bodies	BACKGROUND: The durable oocyst wall formed from the contents of wall-forming bodies (WFBs) protects Eimeria parasites from harsh conditions and enhances parasite transmission. Comprehending the contents of WFBs and proteins involved in oocyst wall formation is pivotal to understanding the mechanism of the oocyst wall formation and the search for novel targets to disrupt parasite transmission. METHODS: Total proteins extracted from WFBs and the oocyst wall of Eimeria necatrix were subjected to comparative proteomic analysis using tandem mass tag in conjunction with liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry techniques. After functional clustering analysis of the identified proteins, three proteins, including E. necatrix disulfide isomerase (EnPDI), thioredoxin (EnTrx) and phosphoglycerate kinase (EnPGK), were selected for further study to confirm their potential roles in oocyst wall formation. RESULTS: A total of 3009 and 2973 proteins were identified from WFBs and the oocyst wall of E. necatrix, respectively. Among these proteins, 1102 were identified as differentially expressed proteins, of which 506 were upregulated and 596 downregulated in the oocyst wall compared to the WFBs. A total of 108 proteins, including compositional proteins of the oocyst wall, proteases, oxidoreductases, proteins involved in glycosylation, proteins involved in synthesis of the acid-fast lipid layer and proteins related to transport, were proposed to be involved in oocyst wall formation. The approximate molecular sizes of native EnPDI, EnTrx and EnPGK proteins were 55, 50 and 45 kDa, respectively. EnPDI was present in both type 1 and type 2 WFBs, EnTrx was present only in type 2 WFB2 and EnPGK was present only in type 1 WFBs, whereas all of them were localized to the outer layer of the oocyst wall, indicating that all of them participate in the formation of the oocyst wall. CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the proteomes of WFBs and the oocyst wall of E. necatrix. The data obtained from this study form a basis for deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying oocyst wall formation of Eimeria parasites. They also provide valuable resources for future studies on the development of novel therapeutic agents and vaccines aimed at combating coccidian transmission.
PXD037908	38111315	Trioxidized cysteine in the aging proteome mimics the structural dynamics and interactome of phosphorylated serine. 	Cysteine thiol trioxidation induce aging	lungs, skin	Aging is the primary risk factor for the development of numerous human chronic diseases. On a molecular level, it significantly impacts the regulation of protein modifications, leading to the accumulation of degenerative protein modifications (DPMs) such as aberrant serine phosphorylation (p-Ser) and trioxidized cysteine (t-Cys) within the proteome. The altered p-Ser is linked to abnormal cell signaling, while the accumulation of t-Cys is associated with chronic diseases induced by oxidative stress. Despite this, the potential cross-effects and functional interplay between these two critical molecular factors of aging remain undisclosed. This study analyzes the aging proteome of wild-type C57BL/6NTac mice over 2 years using advanced proteomics and bioinformatics. Our objective is to provide a comprehensive analysis of how t-Cys affects cell signaling and protein structure in the aging process. The results obtained indicate that t-Cys residues accumulate in the aging proteome, interact with p-Ser interacting enzymes, as validated in vitro, and alter their structures similarly to p-Ser. These findings have significant implications for understanding the interplay of oxidative stress and phosphorylation in the aging process. Additionally, they open new venues for further research on the role(s) of these protein modifications in various human chronic diseases and aging, wherein exacerbated oxidation and aberrant phosphorylation are implicated.
PXD035915	38111640	Insight into the mechanism of gallstone disease by proteomic and metaproteomic characterization of human bile. 	Metaproteomic and proteomic characterization of human bile of gallstone disease reveals the interplay between host and the microbiota	Bacteria, Bile, Cholecystitis, Gallstone, Metaproteomics, Microbiome	Introduction: Cholesterol gallstone disease is a prevalent condition that has a significant economic impact. However, the role of the bile microbiome in its development and the host's responses to it remain poorly understood. Methods: In this study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of microbial and human bile proteins in 40 individuals with either gallstone disease or gallbladder polyps. We employed a combined proteomic and metaproteomic approach, as well as meta-taxonomic analysis, functional pathway enrichment, and Western blot analyses. Results: Our metaproteomic analysis, utilizing the lowest common ancestor algorithm, identified 158 microbial taxa in the bile samples. We discovered microbial taxa that may contribute to gallstone formation, including beta-glucuronidase-producing bacteria such as Streptococcus, Staphylococcus, and Clostridium, as well as those involved in biofilm formation like Helicobacter, Cyanobacteria, Pseudomonas, Escherichia coli, and Clostridium. Furthermore, we identified 2,749 human proteins and 87 microbial proteins with a protein false discovery rate (FDR) of 1% and at least 2 distinct peptides. Among these proteins, we found microbial proteins crucial to biofilm formation, such as QDR3, ompA, ndk, pstS, nanA, pfIB, and dnaK. Notably, QDR3 showed a gradual upregulation from chronic to acute cholesterol gallstone disease when compared to polyp samples. Additionally, we discovered other microbial proteins that enhance bacterial virulence and gallstone formation by counteracting host oxidative stress, including sodB, katG, rbr, htrA, and ahpC. We also identified microbial proteins like lepA, rtxA, pckA, tuf, and tpiA that are linked to bacterial virulence and potential gallstone formation, with lepA being upregulated in gallstone bile compared to polyp bile. Furthermore, our analysis of the host proteome in gallstone bile revealed enhanced inflammatory molecular profiles, including innate immune molecules against microbial infections. Gallstone bile exhibited overrepresented pathways related to blood coagulation, folate metabolism, and the IL-17 pathway. However, we observed suppressed metabolic activities, particularly catabolic metabolism and transport activities, in gallstone bile compared to polyp bile. Notably, acute cholelithiasis bile demonstrated significantly impaired metabolic activities compared to chronic cholelithiasis bile. Conclusion: Our study provides a comprehensive metaproteomic analysis of bile samples related to gallstone disease, offering new insights into the microbiome-host interaction and gallstone formation mechanism.
PXD043041	38111714	TurboID-mediated proximity labeling for screening interacting proteins of FIP37 in Arabidopsis. 	TurboID-mediated proximity labeling for screening interacting proteins of FIP37 in Arabidopsis	FIP37, TurboID, biotin, m6A, protein-protein interactions (PPIs), proximity labeling (PL)	Proximity labeling was recently developed to detect protein-protein interactions and members of subcellular multiprotein structures in living cells. Proximity labeling is conducted by fusing an engineered enzyme with catalytic activity, such as biotin ligase, to a protein of interest (bait protein) to biotinylate adjacent proteins. The biotinylated protein can be purified by streptavidin beads, and identified by mass spectrometry (MS). TurboID is an engineered biotin ligase with high catalytic efficiency, which is used for proximity labeling. Although TurboID-based proximity labeling technology has been successfully established in mammals, its application in plant systems is limited. Here, we report the usage of TurboID for proximity labeling of FIP37, a core member of m(6)A methyltransferase complex, to identify FIP37 interacting proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana. By analyzing the MS data, we found 214 proteins biotinylated by GFP-TurboID-FIP37 fusion, including five components of m(6)A methyltransferase complex that have been previously confirmed. Therefore, the identified proteins may include potential proteins directly involved in the m(6)A pathway or functionally related to m(6)A-coupled mRNA processing due to spatial proximity. Moreover, we demonstrated the feasibility of proximity labeling technology in plant epitranscriptomics study, thereby expanding the application of this technology to more subjects of plant research.
PXD047253	38113133	Proteomic Analysis of the Supernatant from Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells under High Glucose Conditions. 	Proteomic analysis of supernatant from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells under high glucose condition	BMSCs, high glucose, supernatant	Diabetes mellitus hinders the process of bone regeneration by inhibiting the function of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) through elevated glucose levels, thereby impeding osteointegration. The stem cell niche (SCN) plays a crucial role in determining the fate of stem cells by integrating various signals. However, the precise mechanism by which high glucose levels affect the SCN and subsequently influence the function of MSCs remains unclear. In this study, we employed proteomic analysis to identify proteins with altered expression in the extracellular matrix (ECM), aiming to elucidate the underlying mechanism. Three cell supernatants were collected from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) or BMSCs stimulated with high glucose (BMSCs+Hg). A total of 590 differentially expressed proteins were identified, which were found to be associated with the ECM, including aging, autophagy, and osteogenic differentiation. The findings of our study indicate that elevated glucose levels exert an influence on the molecular aspects of the SCN, potentially contributing to a better comprehension of the underlying mechanism.
PXD046854	38113165	Senolytic-facilitated Reversal of End-Organ Dysfunction in a Murine Model of Obstructive Sleep Apnea. 	Senolytic-Facilitated Reversal of End-Organ Dysfunction in a Murine Model of Obstructive Sleep Apnea	intermittent hypoxia, normoxia, senescence, sleep apnea	RATIONALE: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a highly prevalent condition that is associated with accelerated biological aging and multiple end-organ morbidities. Current treatments, such as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), have shown limited cognitive, metabolic, and cardiovascular beneficial outcomes despite adherence. Thus, adjunct therapies aiming to reduce OSA burden, such as senolytics, could improve OSA outcomes. OBJECTIVES: To assess if targeting senescence in addition to partial normoxia mimicking "good" CPAP adherence can improve physiological outcomes in mice exposed to chronic intermittent hypoxia (IH). METHODS: We compared the effects of 6 weeks therapy with either partial normoxic recovery alone or combined with the senolytic Navitoclax (NAV) after 16 weeks of IH exposures, a hallmark of OSA, on multi-phenotypic cardiometabolic and neurocognitive parameters. RESULTS: Our findings indicate that only when combined with NAV, partial normoxic recovery significantly improved sleepiness (sleep in the dark phase: 34 +/- 4% vs. 26 +/- 3%, p < 0.01), cognition (Preference score: 51 +/- 19% vs. 70 +/- 11%, p = 0.048), coronary artery function (response to acetylcholine (vasodilation): 56 +/- 13% vs. 72 +/- 10%, p < 0.001), glucose, and lipid metabolism, and reduced intestinal permeability and senescence in multiple organs. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that the reversibility of end-organ morbidities induced by OSA are not only contingent on restoration of normal oxygenation patterns and can be further enhanced by targeting other OSA-mediated detrimental cellular processes, such as accelerated senescence.
PXD046068	38113283	The RNA helicase Dbp10 coordinates assembly factor association with PTC maturation during ribosome biogenesis. 	The RNA helicase Dbp10 coordinates assembly factor association with PTC formation during ribosome biogenesis	S. cerevisiae, assembly factors, ribosome assembly. pre-60S	During ribosome biogenesis a plethora of assembly factors and essential enzymes drive the unidirectional maturation of nascent pre-ribosomal subunits. The DEAD-box RNA helicase Dbp10 is suggested to restructure pre-ribosomal rRNA of the evolving peptidyl-transferase center (PTC) on nucleolar ribosomal 60S assembly intermediates. Here, we show that point mutations within conserved catalytic helicase-core motifs of Dbp10 yield a dominant-lethal growth phenotype. Such dbp10 mutants, which stably associate with pre-60S intermediates, impair pre-60S biogenesis at a nucleolar stage prior to the release of assembly factor Rrp14 and stable integration of late nucleolar factors such as Noc3. Furthermore, the binding of the GTPase Nug1 to particles isolated directly via mutant Dbp10 bait proteins is specifically inhibited. The N-terminal domain of Nug1 interacts with Dbp10 and the methyltransferase Spb1, whose pre-60S incorporation is also reduced in absence of functional Dbp10 resulting in decreased methylation of 25S rRNA nucleotide G2922. Our data suggest that Dbp10's helicase activity generates the necessary framework for assembly factor docking thereby permitting PTC rRNA methylation and the progression of pre-60S maturation.
PXD045198	38113368	In-Depth Proteome Profiling of Small Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Cancer Cell Lines and Patient Serum. 	In-depth proteome profiling of small extracellular vesicles isolated from cancer cell lines and patient serum	CD9, EV proteins, Extracellular Vesicles, HCC, Immunoaffinity, Pancreatic Cancer, Ultracentrifugation	Extracellular vesicle (EV) secretion has been observed in many types of both normal and tumor cells. EVs contain a variety of distinctive cargoes, allowing tumor-derived serum proteins in EVs to act as a minimally invasive method for clinical monitoring. We have undertaken a comprehensive study of the protein content of the EVs from several cancer cell lines using direct data-independent analysis. Several thousand proteins were detected, including many classic EV markers such as CD9, CD81, CD63, TSG101, and Syndecan-1, among others. We detected many distinctive cancer-specific proteins, including several known markers used in cancer detection and monitoring. We further studied the protein content of EVs from patient serum for both normal controls and pancreatic cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. The EVs for these studies have been isolated by various methods for comparison, including ultracentrifugation and CD9 immunoaffinity column. Typically, 500-1000 proteins were identified, where most of them overlapped with the EV proteins identified from the cell lines studied. We were able to identify many of the cell-line EV protein markers in the serum EVs, in addition to the large numbers of proteins specific to pancreatic and HCC cancers.
PXD046752	38114468	Direct-to-biology, automated, nano-scale synthesis, and phenotypic screening-enabled E3 ligase modulator discovery. 	Direct-to-biology: Accelerated E3 ligase modulator discovery	MM.1S, degraders, multiple myeloma	Thalidomide and its analogs are molecular glues (MGs) that lead to targeted ubiquitination and degradation of key cancer proteins via the cereblon (CRBN) E3 ligase. Here, we develop a direct-to-biology (D2B) approach for accelerated discovery of MGs. In this platform, automated, high throughput, and nano scale synthesis of hundreds of pomalidomide-based MGs was combined with rapid phenotypic screening, enabling an unprecedented fast identification of potent CRBN-acting MGs. The small molecules were further validated by degradation profiling and anti-cancer activity. This revealed E14 as a potent MG degrader targeting IKZF1/3, GSPT1 and 2 with profound effects on a panel of cancer cells. In a more generalized view, integration of automated, nanoscale synthesis with phenotypic assays has the potential to accelerate MGs discovery.
PXD035007	38114522	Endoxifen downregulates AKT phosphorylation through protein kinase C beta 1 inhibition in ERalpha+ breast cancer. 	Endoxifen Downregulates AKT Phosphorylation Through Protein Kinase C Beta 1 in ER+/HER2- Breast Cancer	AKT, Apoptosis, Endoxifen, PKC-beta-1, Phosphoproteome, breast cancer	Endoxifen, a secondary tamoxifen metabolite, is a potent antiestrogen exhibiting estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) binding at nanomolar concentrations. Phase I/II clinical trials identified clinical activity of Z-endoxifen (ENDX), in endocrine-refractory metastatic breast cancer as well as ERalpha+ solid tumors, raising the possibility that ENDX may have a second, ERalpha-independent, mechanism of action. An unbiased mass spectrometry approach revealed that ENDX concentrations achieved clinically with direct ENDX administration (5 microM), but not low concentrations observed during tamoxifen treatment (<0.1 microM), profoundly altered the phosphoproteome of the aromatase expressing MCF7AC1 cells with limited impact on the total proteome. Computational analysis revealed protein kinase C beta (PKCbeta) and protein kinase B alpha or AKT1 as potential kinases responsible for mediating ENDX effects on protein phosphorylation. ENDX more potently inhibited PKCbeta1 kinase activity compared to other PKC isoforms, and ENDX binding to PKCbeta1 was confirmed using Surface Plasma Resonance. Under conditions that activated PKC/AKT signaling, ENDX induced PKCbeta1 degradation, attenuated PKCbeta1-activated AKT(Ser473) phosphorylation, diminished AKT substrate phosphorylation, and induced apoptosis. ENDX's effects on AKT were phenocopied by siRNA-mediated PKCbeta1 knockdown or treatment with the pan-AKT inhibitor, MK-2206, while overexpression of constitutively active AKT diminished ENDX-induced apoptosis. These findings, which identify PKCbeta1 as an ENDX target, indicate that PKCbeta1/ENDX interactions suppress AKT signaling and induce apoptosis in breast cancer.
PXD046259	38115136	Hypertonicity induces mitochondrial extracellular vesicles (MEVs) that activate TNF-alpha and beta-catenin signaling to promote adipocyte dedifferentiation. 	Ejection of mitochondria and TNF-alpha activation mediate hypertonicity-induced adipocytes dedifferentiation	EVs, adipocyte, hypertonicity, mitochondria	BACKGROUND: Recent studies demonstrated that elevated osmolarity could induce adipocyte dedifferentiation, representing an appealing procedure to generate multipotent stem cells. Here we aim to elucidate the molecular mechanisms that underlie osmotic induction of adipocyte reprogramming. METHODS: To induce dedifferentiation, the 3T3-L1 or SVF adipocytes were cultured under the hypertonic pressure in 2% PEG 300 medium. Adipocyte dedifferentiation was monitored by aspect ratio measurement, Oil Red staining and qPCR to examine the morphology, lipid droplets, and specific genes of adipocytes, respectively. The osteogenic and chondrogenic re-differentiation capacities of dedifferentiated adipocytes were also examined. To investigate the mechanisms of the osmotic stress-induced dedifferentiation, extracellular vesicles (EVs) were collected from the reprograming cells, followed by proteomic and functional analyses. In addition, qPCR, ELISA, and TNF-alpha neutralizing antibody (20 ng/ml) was applied to examine the activation and effects of the TNF-alpha signaling. Furthermore, we also analyzed the Wnt signaling by assessing the activation of beta-catenin and applying BML-284, an agonist of beta-catenin. RESULTS: Hypertonic treatment induced dedifferentiation of both 3T3-L1 and the primary stromal vascular fraction (SVF) adipocytes, characterized by morphological and functional changes. Proteomic profiling revealed that hypertonicity induced extracellular vesicles (EVs) containing mitochondrial molecules including NDUFA9 and VDAC. Functionally, the mitochondrial EVs (MEVs) stimulated TNF-alpha signaling that activates Wnt-beta-catenin signaling and adipocyte dedifferentiation. Neutralizing TNF-alpha inhibited hypertonic dedifferentiation of adipocytes. In addition, direct activation of Wnt-beta-catenin signaling using BML-284 could efficiently induce adipocyte dedifferentiation while circumventing the apoptotic effect of the hypertonic treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Hypertonicity prompts the adipocytes to release MEVs, which in turn enhances the secretion of TNF-alpha as a pro-inflammatory cytokine during the stress response. Importantly, TNF-alpha is essential for the activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling that drives adipocyte dedifferentiation. A caveat of the hypertonic treatment is apoptosis, which could be circumvented by direct activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling using BML-284.
PXD046017	38116529	Genetic components of Escherichia coli involved in its complex prey-predator interaction with Myxococcus xanthus. 	Genetic components of Escherichia coli involved in its complex preypredator interaction with Myxococcus xanthus	Escherichia coli, Myxococcus xanthus, dusB gene, fis gene, flagellum, myxovirescin A, predator-prey interaction	Myxococcus xanthus and Escherichia coli represent a well-studied microbial predator-prey pair frequently examined in laboratory settings. While significant progress has been made in comprehending the mechanisms governing M. xanthus predation, various aspects of the response and defensive mechanisms of E. coli as prey remain elusive. In this study, the E. coli MG1655 large-scale chromosome deletion library was screened, and a mutant designated as ME5012 was identified to possess significantly reduced susceptibility to predation by M. xanthus. Within the deleted region of ME5012 encompassing seven genes, the significance of dusB and fis genes in driving the observed phenotype became apparent. Specifically, the deletion of fis resulted in a notable reduction in flagellum production in E. coli, contributing to a certain level of resistance against predation by M. xanthus. Meanwhile, the removal of dusB in E. coli led to diminished inducibility of myxovirescin A production by M. xanthus, accompanied by a slight decrease in susceptibility to myxovirescin A. These findings shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlying the complex interaction between M. xanthus and E. coli in a predatory context.
PXD046141	38117580	Proteomic Analyses of Plasma from Patients with Fracture Related Infection Reveals Systemic Activation of the Complement and Coagulation Cascades. 	Proteomic Analyses of Plasma from Patients with Fracture Related Infection Reveals Systemic Activation of the Complement and Coagulation Cascades	bioinformatics, fracture, infection	OBJECTIVES: To compare plasma proteomes of patients with confirmed fracture related infections (FRIs) matched to noninfected controls using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). DESIGN: Prospective Case-Control Study. SETTING: Single, Academic, Level 1 Trauma Center. PATIENT SELECTION CRITERIA: Patients meeting confirmatory FRI criteria were matched to controls without infection based on fracture region, age, and time after surgery from June 2019 to January 2022. Tandem Mass Tag LC-MS analysis of patient plasma samples was performed. OUTCOME MEASURES AND COMPARISONS: Protein abundance ratios in plasma for FRI patients compared to matched controls without infection were calculated. RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients meeting confirmatory FRI criteria were matched to 27 controls . Abundance ratios for over 1,000 proteins were measured in the 54 plasma samples. Seventy-three proteins were found to be increased or decreased in FRI patients compared to the matched controls (unadjusted t-test p<0.05). Thirty-two of these proteins were found in all 54 patient samples and underwent subsequent principal component (PC) analysis (PCA) to reduce the dimensionality of the large proteomics data set. A three component PCA accounted for 45.7% of the variation in the data set and had 88.9% specificity for the diagnosis of FRI. STRING protein-protein interaction network analysis of these three PCs revealed activation of the complement and coagulation cascades via the Reactome pathway database (false discovery rates<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Proteomic analyses of plasma from FRI patients demonstrates systemic activation of the complement and coagulation cascades. Further investigation along these lines may help to better understand the systemic response to FRI and improve diagnostic strategies using proteomics.
PXD019217	38117589	Cross-family small GTPase ubiquitination by the intracellular pathogen Legionella pneumophila. 	Cross-family small GTPase ubiquitination by the intracellular pathogen Legionella pneumophila	Legionella	The intracellular bacterial pathogen Legionella pneumophila (L.p.) manipulates eukaryotic host ubiquitination machinery to form its replicative vacuole. While nearly 10% of L.p.'s ~330 secreted effector proteins are ubiquitin ligases or deubiquitinases, a comprehensive measure of temporally resolved changes in the endogenous host ubiquitinome during infection has not been undertaken. To elucidate how L.p hijacks host cell ubiquitin signaling, we generated a proteome-wide analysis of changes in protein ubiquitination during infection. We discover that L.p. infection increases ubiquitination of host regulators of subcellular trafficking and membrane dynamics, most notably ~40% of mammalian Ras superfamily small GTPases. We determine that these small GTPases undergo non-degradative ubiquitination at the Legionella-containing vacuole membrane. Finally, we find that the bacterial effectors SidC/SdcA play a central role in cross-family small GTPase ubiquitination, and that these effectors function upstream of SidE-family ligases in the poly-ubiquitination and retention of GTPases in the LCV membrane. This work highlights the extensive reconfiguration of host ubiquitin signaling by bacterial effectors during infection and establishes simultaneous ubiquitination of small GTPases across the Ras superfamily as a novel consequence of L.p. infection. Our findings position L.p. as a tool to better understand how small GTPases can be regulated by ubiquitination in uninfected contexts.
PXD047722	38117590	Cooperative polarization of MCAM/CD146 and ERM family proteins in melanoma. 	Cooperative polarization of MCAM/CD146 and ERM family proteins in melanoma	ERM, MCAM, WRAMP, Wnt5a	The WRAMP structure is a protein network associated with tail-end actomyosin contractility, membrane retraction, and directional persistence during cell migration. A marker of WRAMP structures is melanoma cell adhesion molecule (MCAM) which dynamically polarizes to the cell rear. However, factors that mediate MCAM polarization are still unknown. In this study, BioID using MCAM as bait identifies the ERM family proteins, moesin, ezrin, and radixin, as WRAMP structure components. We also present a novel image analysis pipeline, Protein Polarity by Percentile ("3P"), which classifies protein polarization using machine learning and facilitates quantitative analysis. Using 3P, we find that depletion of moesin, and to a lesser extent ezrin, decreases the proportion of cells with polarized MCAM. Furthermore, although co-polarized MCAM and ERM proteins show high spatial overlap, 3P identifies subpopulations with ERM proteins closer to the cell periphery. Live-cell imaging confirms that MCAM and ERM protein polarization is tightly coordinated, but ERM proteins enrich at the cell edge first. Finally, deletion of a juxtamembrane segment in MCAM previously shown to promote ERM protein interactions impedes MCAM polarization. Our findings highlight the requirement for ERM proteins in recruitment of MCAM to WRAMP structures and an advanced computational tool to characterize protein polarization. [Media: see text] [Media: see text] [Media: see text].
PXD043294	38122900	Exploring the spatial landscape of the Estrogen Receptor proximal proteome with antibody-based proximity labeling. 	Exploring the Spatial Landscape of the Estrogen Receptor Proximal Proteome With Antibody-Based Proximity Labeling	BAR, Estrogen receptor, endocrine resistance, interactome	Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha) drives the transcription of genes involved in breast cancer (BC) progression, relying on coregulatory protein recruitment for its transcriptional and biological activities. Mutation of ERalpha as well as aberrant recruitment of its regulatory proteins contribute to tumor adaptation and drug resistance. Therefore, understanding the dynamic changes in ERalpha protein interaction networks is crucial for elucidating drug resistance mechanisms in BC. Despite progress in studying ERalpha-associated proteins, capturing subcellular transient interactions remains challenging and, as a result, significant number of important interactions remain undiscovered. In this study, we employed Biotinylation by Antibody Recognition (BAR), an innovative antibody-based Proximity Labeling (PL) approach, coupled with mass spectrometry to investigate the ERalpha proximal proteome and its changes associated with resistance to aromatase inhibition, a key therapy used in the treatment of ERalpha positive BC. We show that BAR successfully detected most of the known ERalpha interactors and mainly identified nuclear proteins, using either an epitope tag or endogenous antibody to target ERalpha. We further describe the ERalpha proximal proteome rewiring associated with resistance applying BAR to a panel of isogenic cell lines modeling tumor adaptation in the clinic. Interestingly, we find that ERalpha associates with some of the canonical cofactors in resistant cells and several proximal proteome changes are due to increased expression of ERalpha. Resistant models also show decreased levels of estrogen-regulated genes. Sensitive and resistant cells harboring a mutation in the ERalpha (Y537C) revealed a similar proximal proteome. We provide an ERalpha proximal protein network covering several novel ERalpha-proximal partners. These include proteins involved in highly dynamic processes such as sumoylation and ubiquitination difficult to detect with traditional protein interaction approaches. Overall, we present BAR as an effective approach to investigate the ERalpha proximal proteome in a spatial context and demonstrate its application in different experimental conditions.
PXD026934	38123683	Mitochondrial dysfunction abrogates dietary lipid processing in enterocytes. 	Mitochondria regulate dietary lipid processing in enterocytes	DARS2, ER, Golgi, enterocyctes, lipid metabolism, mitochondria, small intestine	Digested dietary fats are taken up by enterocytes where they are assembled into pre-chylomicrons in the endoplasmic reticulum followed by transport to the Golgi for maturation and subsequent secretion to the circulation(1). The role of mitochondria in dietary lipid processing is unclear. Here we show that mitochondrial dysfunction in enterocytes inhibits chylomicron production and the transport of dietary lipids to peripheral organs. Mice with specific ablation of the mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase DARS2 (ref. (2)), the respiratory chain subunit SDHA(3) or the assembly factor COX10 (ref. (4)) in intestinal epithelial cells showed accumulation of large lipid droplets (LDs) in enterocytes of the proximal small intestine and failed to thrive. Feeding a fat-free diet suppressed the build-up of LDs in DARS2-deficient enterocytes, which shows that the accumulating lipids derive mostly from digested fat. Furthermore, metabolic tracing studies revealed an impaired transport of dietary lipids to peripheral organs in mice lacking DARS2 in intestinal epithelial cells. DARS2 deficiency caused a distinct lack of mature chylomicrons concomitant with a progressive dispersal of the Golgi apparatus in proximal enterocytes. This finding suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction results in impaired trafficking of chylomicrons from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi, which in turn leads to storage of dietary lipids in large cytoplasmic LDs. Taken together, these results reveal a role for mitochondria in dietary lipid transport in enterocytes, which might be relevant for understanding the intestinal defects observed in patients with mitochondrial disorders(5).
PXD038723	38123842	Chemoselective umpolung of thiols to episulfoniums for cysteine bioconjugation. 	Chemoselective umpolung of thiols to episulfoniums for cysteine bioconjugation	chemical proteomics, cysteine labeling	Cysteine conjugation is an important tool in protein research and relies on fast, mild and chemoselective reactions. Cysteinyl thiols can either be modified with prefunctionalized electrophiles, or converted into electrophiles themselves for functionalization with selected nucleophiles in an independent step. Here we report a bioconjugation strategy that uses a vinyl thianthrenium salt to transform cysteine into a highly reactive electrophilic episulfonium intermediate in situ, to enable conjugation with a diverse set of bioorthogonal nucleophiles in a single step. The reactivity profile can connect several nucleophiles to biomolecules through a short and stable ethylene linker, ideal for introduction of infrared labels, post-translational modifications or NMR probes. In the absence of reactive exogenous nucleophiles, nucleophilic amino acids can react with the episulfonium intermediate for native peptide stapling and protein-protein ligation. Ready synthetic access to isotopologues of vinyl thianthrenium salts enables applications in quantitative proteomics. Such diverse applications demonstrate the utility of vinyl-thianthrenium-based bioconjugation as a fast, selective and broadly applicable tool for chemical biology.
PXD025689	38124114	A comprehensive characterisation of phaeochromocytoma and paraganglioma tumours through histone protein profiling, DNA methylation and transcriptomic analysis genome wide. 	Investigation of post-translational histone modifications in pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas	histone post-translational modifications, paraganglioma, pheochromocytoma	BACKGROUND: Phaeochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGLs) are rare neuroendocrine tumours. Pathogenic variants have been identified in more than 15 susceptibility genes; associated tumours are grouped into three Clusters, reinforced by their transcriptional profiles. Cluster 1A PPGLs have pathogenic variants affecting enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, including succinate dehydrogenase. Within inherited PPGLs, these are the most common. PPGL tumours are known to undergo epigenetic reprograming, and here, we report on global histone post-translational modifications and DNA methylation levels, alongside clinical phenotypes. RESULTS: Out of the 25 histone post-translational modifications examined, Cluster 1A PPGLs were distinguished from other tumours by a decrease in hyper-acetylated peptides and an increase in H3K4me2. DNA methylation was compared between tumours from individuals who developed metastatic disease versus those that did not. The majority of differentially methylated sites identified tended to be completely methylated or unmethylated in non-metastatic tumours, with low inter-sample variance. Metastatic tumours by contrast consistently had an intermediate DNA methylation state, including the ephrin receptor EPHA4 and its ligand EFNA3. Gene expression analyses performed to identify genes involved in metastatic tumour behaviour pin-pointed a number of genes previously described as mis-regulated in Cluster 1A tumours, as well as highlighting the tumour suppressor RGS22 and the pituitary tumour-transforming gene PTTG1. CONCLUSIONS: Combined transcriptomic and DNA methylation analyses revealed aberrant pathways, including ones that could be implicated in metastatic phenotypes and, for the first time, we report a decrease in hyper-acetylated histone marks in Cluster 1 PPGLs.
PXD045312	38126344	A hybrid electrospun-extruded polydioxanone suture for tendon tissue regeneration. 	A hybrid electrospun-extruded polydioxanone suture for tendon tissue regeneration	Plasma, Tendon, Tissue Regeneration	Many surgical tendon repairs fail despite advances in surgical materials and techniques. Tendon repair failure can be partially attributed to the tendon's poor intrinsic healing capacity and the repurposing of sutures from other clinical applications. Electrospun materials show promise as a biological scaffold to support endogenous tendon repair, but their relatively low tensile strength has limited their clinical translation. It is hypothesized that combining electrospun fibres with a stronger material may improve the suture's mechanical properties while retaining biophysical cues necessary to encourage cell-mediated repair. This paper describes the production of a hybrid electrospun-extruded suture with a sheath of submicron electrospun fibres and a core of melt-extruded fibres. The porosity and tensile strength of this hybrid suture is compared to an electrospun-only braided suture and clinically used sutures Vicryl and PDS. Bioactivity is assessed by measuring the adsorbed serum proteins on electrospun and melt-extruded filaments using mass spectrometry. Human hamstring tendon fibroblast attachment and proliferation was quantified and compared between the hybrid and control sutures. Combining an electrospun sheath with melt-extruded cores created a hybrid braid with increased tensile strength (70.1+/-0.3N) compared to an electrospun only suture (12.9+/-1N, p<0.0001). The hybrid suture had a similar force at break to clinical sutures, but lower stiffness and stress. The Young's modulus was 772.6+/-32Mpa for the hybrid suture, 1693.0+/-69Mpa for PDS, and 3838.0+/-132MPa for Vicryl, p<0.0001. Hybrid sutures had lower overall porosity than electrospun-only sutures (40+/-4% and 60+/-7%, respectively, p=0.0018) but had a significantly larger overall porosity and average pore diameter compared to surgical sutures. There were similar clusters of adsorbed proteins on electrospun and melt-extruded filaments, which were distinct from PDS. Tendon fibroblast attachment and cell proliferation on hybrid and electrospun sutures were significantly higher than on clinical sutures. This study demonstrated that a bioactive suture with increased tensile strength and lower stiffness could be produced by adding a core of 10um melt-extruded fibres to a sheath of electrospun fibres. In contrast to currently used sutures, the hybrid sutures promoted a bioactive response: serum proteins adsorbed, and fibroblasts attached, survived, grew along the sutures, and adopted appropriate morphologies.
PXD043100	38126797	CCAR-1 works together with the U2AF large subunit UAF-1 to regulate alternative splicing. 	CCAR-1 regulates the alternative splicing of multiple genes in Caenorhabditis elegans	C. elegans, CCAR-1, alternative splicing	The Cell Division Cycle and Apoptosis Regulator (CCAR) protein family members have recently emerged as regulators of alternative splicing and transcription, as well as having other key physiological functions. For example, mammalian CCAR2/DBC1 forms a complex with the zinc factor protein ZNF326 to integrate alternative splicing with RNA polymerase II transcriptional elongation in AT-rich regions of the DNA. Additionally, Caenorhabditis elegans CCAR-1, a homolog to mammalian CCAR2, facilitates the alternative splicing of the perlecan unc-52 gene. However, much about the CCAR family's role in alternative splicing is unknown. Here, we have examined the role of CCAR-1 in genome-wide alternative splicing in Caenorhabditis elegans and have identified new alternative splicing targets of CCAR-1 using RNA sequencing. Also, we found that CCAR-1 interacts with the spliceosome factors UAF-1 and UAF-2 using mass spectrometry, and that knockdown of ccar-1 affects alternative splicing patterns, motility, and proteostasis of UAF-1 mutant worms. Collectively, we demonstrate the role of CCAR-1 in regulating global alternative splicing in C. elegans and in conjunction with UAF-1.
PXD043022	38127299	Identification of novel canonical and cryptic HCMV-specific T-cell epitopes for HLA-A*03 and HLA-B*15 via peptide-PRISM. 	Identification of novel canonical and cryptic HCMV-specific T cell epitopes	HCMV, HLA peptides, immunopeptidomics	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) reactivation poses a substantial risk to transplant patients. Effective risk stratification and vaccine development is hampered by a lack of HCMV-derived immunogenic peptides in patients with common HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-B*15:01 haplotypes. This study aimed to discover novel HCMV immunogenic peptides for these haplotypes by combining Ribo-seq and mass spectrometry with state-of-the-art computational tools, Peptide-PRISM and PRICE. Furthermore, employing machine learning, an algorithm was developed to predict immunogenicity based on translational activity, binding affinity and peptide localization within small open reading frames to identify the most promising peptides for in vitro validation. Immunogenicity of these peptides was subsequently tested by analyzing peptide-specific T-cell responses of HCMV-seropositive and -seronegative healthy donors as well as transplant patients. This resulted in the direct identification of three canonical and one cryptic HLA-A*03-restricted immunogenic peptides as well as five canonical and one cryptic HLA-B*15-restricted immunogenic peptide, with a specific IFNgamma+/CD8+ T-cell response of >= 0.02%. High T-cell responses were detected against two HLA A*03-restricted and three HLA-B*15-restricted canonical peptides with frequencies of up to 8.77% IFNgamma+/CD8+ T cells in patients post alloSCT. Therefore, our comprehensive strategy establishes a framework for efficient identification of novel immunogenic peptides from both existing and novel Ribo-seq datasets.
PXD036263	38127648	Expression of influenza A virus glycan receptor candidates in mallard, chicken, and tufted duck. 	Expression of glycan receptors for influenza A viruses in mallards, chickens, and tufted ducks	: Interspecies transmission, adaptive viral mutations, glycoproteomics, influenza virus, innate immunity, mallard, sialic acid receptor, tufted duck	Influenza A virus (IAV) pandemics result from interspecies transmission events within the avian reservoir and further into mammals including humans. Receptor incompatibility due to differently expressed glycan structures between species has been suggested to limit zoonotic IAV transmission from the wild bird reservoir as well as between different bird species. Using glycoproteomics, we have studied the repertoires of expressed glycan structures with focus on putative sialic acid-containing glycan receptors for IAV in mallard, chicken and tufted duck; three bird species with different roles in the zoonotic ecology of IAV. The methodology used pinpoints specific glycan structures to specific glycosylation sites of identified glycoproteins and was also used to successfully discriminate alpha2-3- from alpha2-6-linked terminal sialic acids by careful analysis of oxonium ions released from glycopeptides in tandem MS/MS (MS 2), and MS/MS/MS (MS 3). Our analysis clearly demonstrated that all three bird species can produce complex N-glycans including alpha2-3-linked sialyl Lewis structures, as well as both N- and O- glycans terminated with both alpha2-3- and alpha2-6-linked Neu5Ac. We also found the recently identified putative IAV receptor structures, Man-6P N-glycopeptides, in all tissues of the three bird species. Furthermore, we found many similarities in the repertoires of expressed receptors both between the bird species investigated and to previously published data from pigs and humans. Our findings of sialylated glycan structures, previously anticipated to be mammalian specific, in all three bird species may have major implications for our understanding of the role of receptor incompatibility in interspecies transmission of IAV.
PXD038363	38128538	RAF-like protein kinases mediate a deeply conserved, rapid auxin response. 	The central mediator of auxin-triggered phosphorylation in plants is a RAF-like kinase.	Auxin, RAF kinase, plant evolution, protein phosphorylation	The plant-signaling molecule auxin triggers fast and slow cellular responses across land plants and algae. The nuclear auxin pathway mediates gene expression and controls growth and development in land plants, but this pathway is absent from algal sister groups. Several components of rapid responses have been identified in Arabidopsis, but it is unknown if these are part of a conserved mechanism. We recently identified a fast, proteome-wide phosphorylation response to auxin. Here, we show that this response occurs across 5 land plant and algal species and converges on a core group of shared targets. We found conserved rapid physiological responses to auxin in the same species and identified rapidly accelerated fibrosarcoma (RAF)-like protein kinases as central mediators of auxin-triggered phosphorylation across species. Genetic analysis connects this kinase to both auxin-triggered protein phosphorylation and rapid cellular response, thus identifying an ancient mechanism for fast auxin responses in the green lineage.
PXD040645	38128647	Proteomic analysis revealed the potential role of MAGE-D2 in the therapeutic targeting of triple-negative breast cancer. 	Proteomic analysis revealed the potential role of MAGE-D2 in therapeutic targeting of triple-negative breast cancer	Hsp70, MAGE-D2, Potential therapeutic target, Proteomic analysis, Triple negative breast cancer	Among all the molecular subtypes of breast cancer, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive one. Currently, the clinical prognosis of TNBC is poor because there is still no effective therapeutic target. Here, we carried out a combined proteomic analysis involving bioinformatic analysis of the proteome database, label-free quantitative proteomics, and immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry (IP-MS) to explore potential therapeutic targets for TNBC. The results of bioinformatic analysis showed an overexpression of MAGE-D2 in TNBC. In vivo and in vitro experiments revealed that MAGE-D2 overexpression could promote cell proliferation and metastasis. Furthermore, label-free quantitative proteomics revealed that demonstrated that MAGE-D2 acted as a cancer-promoting factor by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. Moreover, the outcomes of IP-MS and cross-linking/xIP-MS demonstrated that MAGE-D2 could interact with Hsp70 and prevent Hsp70 degradation, but evidence for their direct interaction is still lacking. Nevertheless, MAGE-D2 is a potential therapeutic target for TNBC, and blocking MAGE-D2 may have important therapeutic implications.
PXD043864	38128979	Effects of the antimicrobial glabridin on membrane integrity and stress response activation in Listeria monocytogenes. 	Mode of action of glabridin against Listeria monocytogenes	Natural antimicrobials, SigmaB regulon, cell envelope, cross-protection, prenylated isoflavonoids, two-component system	Glabridin is a prenylated isoflavan which can be extracted from liquorice roots and has shown antimicrobial activity against foodborne pathogens and spoilage microorganisms. However, its application may be hindered due to limited information about its mode of action. In this study, we aimed to investigate the mode of action of glabridin using a combined phenotypic and proteomic approach on Listeria monocytogenes. Fluorescence and transmission electron microscopy of cells exposed to glabridin showed membrane permeabilization upon treatment with lethal concentrations of glabridin. Comparative proteomics analysis of control cells and cells exposed to sub-lethal concentrations of glabridin showed upregulation of proteins related to the two-component systems LiaSR and VirRS, confirming cell envelope damage during glabridin treatment. Additional upregulation of SigmaB regulon members signified activation of the general stress response in L. monocytogenes during this treatment. In line with the observed upregulation of cell envelope and general stress response proteins, sub-lethal treatment of glabridin induced (cross)protection against lethal heat and low pH stress and against antimicrobials such as nisin and glabridin itself. Overall, this study sheds light on the mode of action of glabridin and activation of the main stress responses to this antimicrobial isoflavan and highlights possible implications of its use as a naturally derived antimicrobial compound.
PXD039711	38129382	UBE2O reduces the effectiveness of interferon-alpha via degradation of IFIT3 in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	UBE2O targets a novel substrate IFIT3 for ubiquitination and degradation, impeding the interferon pathway activation and interferon sensitization in hepatocellular carcinoma	Hepatocellular carcinoma, IFIT3, UBE2O, interferon pathway, interferon sensitivity	Interferon (IFN) exerts its effects through interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), but its efficacy is limited by interferon resistance, which can be caused by the ubiquitination of key proteins. UBE2O was initially identified as a promising therapeutic target based on data from the TCGA and iUUCD 2.0 databases. Through the inhibition of UBE2O, interferon alpha/beta signaling and overall interferon signaling were activated. Integrating data from proteomic, mass spectrometry, and survival analyses led to the identification of IFIT3, a mediator of interferon signaling, as a ubiquitination substrate of UBE2O. The results of in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that the knockdown of UBE2O can enhance the efficacy of interferon-alpha by upregulating IFIT3 expression. K236 was identified as a ubiquitination site in IFIT3, and the results of rescue experiments confirmed that the effect of UBE2O on interferon-alpha sensitivity is dependent on IFIT3 activity. ATO treatment inhibited UBE2O and increased IFIT3 expression, thereby increasing the effectiveness of interferon-alpha. In conclusion, these findings suggest that UBE2O worsens the therapeutic effect of interferon-alpha by targeting IFIT3 for ubiquitination and degradation.
PXD047378	38130664	Regulation of lipolysis by 14-3-3 proteins on human adipocyte lipid droplets. 	Human LD proteome identified by APEX2-mediated proximity labeling	Human adipocyte, Lipid droplet, Proximity labeling	Adipocyte lipid droplets (LDs) play a crucial role in systemic lipid metabolism by storing and releasing lipids to meet the organism's energy needs. Hormonal signals such as catecholamines and insulin act on adipocyte LDs, and impaired responsiveness to these signals can lead to uncontrolled lipolysis, lipotoxicity, and metabolic disease. To investigate the mechanisms that control LD function in human adipocytes, we applied proximity labeling mediated by enhanced ascorbate peroxidase (APEX2) to identify the interactome of PLIN1 in adipocytes differentiated from human mesenchymal progenitor cells. We identified 70 proteins that interact specifically with PLIN1, including PNPLA2 and LIPE, which are the primary effectors of regulated triglyceride hydrolysis, and 4 members of the 14-3-3 protein family (YWHAB, YWHAE, YWHAZ, and YWHAG), which are known to regulate diverse signaling pathways. Functional studies showed that YWHAB is required for maximum cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-stimulated lipolysis, as its CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockout mitigates lipolysis through a mechanism independent of insulin signaling. These findings reveal a new regulatory mechanism operating in human adipocytes that can impact lipolysis and potentially systemic metabolism.
PXD046112	38132128	A Peripheral Blood Signature of Increased Th1 and Myeloid Cells Combined with Serum Inflammatory Mediators Is Associated with Response to Abatacept in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients. 	Identification of immune-based biomarkers associated with response to abatacept (CTLA4-Ig) in rheumatoid arthritis patients.	CTLA4-Ig, Th1, abatacept, biomarkers, immune cells, rheumatoid arthritis, secretome	Abatacept (CTLA4-Ig)-a monoclonal antibody which restricts T cell activation-is an effective treatment for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Nevertheless, only 50% of RA patients attain clinical responses, while predictors of response are rather limited. Herein, we aimed to investigate for early biomarkers of response to abatacept, based on a detailed immunological profiling of peripheral blood (PB) cells and serum proteins. We applied flow cytometry and proteomics analysis on PB immune cells and serum respectively, of RA patients starting abatacept as the first biologic agent. After 6 months of treatment, 34.5% of patients attained response. At baseline, Th1 and FoxP3+ T cell populations were positively correlated with tender joint counts (p-value = 0.047 and p-value = 0.022, respectively). Upon treatment, CTLA4-Ig effectively reduced the percentages of Th1 and Th17 only in responders (p-value = 0.0277 and p-value = 0.0042, respectively). Notably, baseline levels of Th1 and myeloid cell populations were significantly increased in PB of responders compared to non-responders (p-value = 0.009 and p-value = 0.03, respectively). Proteomics analysis revealed that several inflammatory mediators were present in serum of responders before therapy initiation and strikingly 10 amongst 303 serum proteins were associated with clinical responses. Finally, a composite index based on selected baseline cellular and proteomics' analysis could predict response to abatacept with a high sensitivity (90%) and specificity (88.24%).
PXD046625	38132299	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Effect of a MarR Family Transcriptional Regulator AHA_2124 on Aeromonas hydrophila. 	The Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Effect of a MarR Family Transcriptional Regulator AHA_2124 on Aeromonas hydrophila	Aeromonas hydrophila, MarR family transcriptional regulators, biological functions	The transcriptional regulators of the MarR family play an important role in diverse bacterial physiologic functions, whereas their effect and intrinsic regulatory mechanism on the aquatic pathogenic bacterium Aeromonas hydrophila are, clearly, still unknown. In this study, we firstly constructed a deletion strain of AHA_2124 (DeltaAHA_2124) of a MarR family transcriptional regulator in Aeromonas hydrophila ATCC 7966 (wild type), and found that the deletion of AHA_2124 caused significantly enhanced hemolytic activity, extracellular protease activity, and motility when compared with the wild type. The differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were compared by using data-independent acquisition (DIA), based on a quantitative proteomics technology, between the DeltaAHA_2124 strain and wild type, and there were 178 DAPs including 80 proteins up-regulated and 98 proteins down-regulated. The bioinformatics analysis showed that the deletion of gene AHA_2124 led to some changes in the abundance of proteins related to multiple biological processes, such as translation, peptide transport, and oxidation and reduction. These results provided a theoretical basis for better exploring the regulatory mechanism of the MarR family transcriptional regulators of Aeromonas hydrophila on bacterial physiological functions.
PXD045964	38133236	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Secretory Proteins of Mycoplasma bovis and Mycoplasma mycoides subsp. mycoides Investigates Virulence and Discovers Important Diagnostic Biomarkers. 	M.bovis and Mmm secretome identification	Mmm, Mycoplasma bovis, secreted protein, serum-free medium	The most important pathogenic Mycoplasma species in bovines are Mycoplasma bovis (M. bovis) and Mycoplasma mycoides subsp. mycoides (Mmm). Mmm causes contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), which is a severe respiratory disease widespread in sub-Saharan Africa but eradicated in several countries, including China. M. bovis is an important cause of the bovine respiratory disease complex (BRD), characterized worldwide by pneumonia, arthritis, and mastitis. Secreted proteins of bacteria are generally considered virulence factors because they can act as toxins, adhesins, and virulent enzymes in infection. Therefore, this study performed a comparative proteomic analysis of the secreted proteins of M. bovis and Mmm in order to find some virulence-related factors as well as discover differential diagnostic biomarkers for these bovine mycoplasmas. The secretome was extracted from both species, and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was used, which revealed 55 unique secreted proteins of M. bovis, 44 unique secreted proteins of Mmm, and 4 homologous proteins. In the M. bovis secretome, 19 proteins were predicted to be virulence factors, while 4 putative virulence factors were identified in the Mmm secretome. In addition, five unique secreted proteins of Mmm were expressed and purified, and their antigenicity was confirmed by Western blotting assay and indirect ELISA. Among them, Ts1133 and Ts0085 were verified as potential candidates for distinguishing Mmm infection from M. bovis infection.
PXD047578	38137026	Phenotypic and Proteomic Insights into Differential Cadmium Accumulation in Maize Kernels. 	Phenotypic and Proteomic Insights into Differential Cadmium Accumulation in Maize Kenerls	cadmium, kernel, maize, mutant	The contamination of agricultural soil with cadmium (Cd), a heavy metal, poses a significant environmental challenge, affecting crop growth, development, and human health. Previous studies have established the pivotal role of the ZmHMA3 gene, a P-type ATPase heavy metal transporter, in determining variable Cd accumulation in maize grains among 513 inbred lines. To decipher the molecular mechanism underlying mutation-induced phenotypic differences mediated by ZmHMA3, we conducted a quantitative tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomic analysis of immature maize kernels. This analysis aimed to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in wild-type B73 and ZmHMA3 null mutant under Cd stress. The findings demonstrated that ZmHMA3 accumulated higher levels of Cd compared to B73 when exposed to varying Cd concentrations in the soil. In comparison to soil with a low Cd concentration, B73 and ZmHMA3 exhibited 75 and 142 DEPs, respectively, with 24 common DEPs shared between them. ZmHMA3 showed a higher induction of upregulated genes related to Cd stress than B73. Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism was specifically enriched in B73, while phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, nitrogen metabolism, and glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism appeared to play a more significant role in ZmHMA3. This study provides proteomics insights into unraveling the molecular mechanism underlying the differences in Cd accumulation in maize kernels.
PXD035422	38137391	New Enhancing MRI Lesions Associate with IL-17, Neutrophil Degranulation and Integrin Microparticles: Multi-Omics Combined with Frequent MRI in Multiple Sclerosis. 	Data in support of Temporal changes of inflammation and endothelial dysfunction in multiple sclerosis related to the evolution of enhancing lesions on frequent brain MRI	blood brain barrier, flair, multiple sclerosis, translational biomarker	BACKGROUND: Blood-barrier (BBB) breakdown and active inflammation are hallmarks of relapsing multiple sclerosis (RMS), but the molecular events contributing to the development of new lesions are not well explored. Leaky endothelial junctions are associated with increased production of endothelial-derived extracellular microvesicles (EVs) and result in the entry of circulating immune cells into the brain. MRI with intravenous gadolinium (Gd) can visualize acute blood-barrier disruption as the initial event of the evolution of new lesions. METHODS: Here, weekly MRI with Gd was combined with proteomics, multiplex immunoassay, and endothelial stress-optimized EV array to identify early markers related to BBB disruption. Five patients with RMS with no disease-modifying treatment were monitored weekly using high-resolution 3T MRI scanning with intravenous gadolinium (Gd) for 8 weeks. Patients were then divided into three groups (low, medium, or high MRI activity) defined by the number of new, total, and maximally enhancing Gd-enhancing lesions and the number of new FLAIR lesions. Plasma samples taken at each MRI were analyzed for protein biomarkers of inflammation by quantitative proteomics, and cytokines using multiplex immunoassays. EVs were characterized with an optimized endothelial stress EV array based on exosome surface protein markers for the detection of soluble secreted EVs. RESULTS: Proteomics analysis of plasma yielded quantitative information on 208 proteins at each patient time point (n = 40). We observed the highest number of unique dysregulated proteins (DEPs) and the highest functional enrichment in the low vs. high MRI activity comparison. Complement activation and complement/coagulation cascade were also strongly overrepresented in the low vs. high MRI activity comparison. Activation of the alternative complement pathway, pathways of blood coagulation, extracellular matrix organization, and the regulation of TLR and IGF transport were unique for the low vs. high MRI activity comparison as well, with these pathways being overrepresented in the patient with high MRI activity. Principal component analysis indicated the individuality of plasma profiles in patients. IL-17 was upregulated at all time points during 8 weeks in patients with high vs. low MRI activity. Hierarchical clustering of soluble markers in the plasma indicated that all four MRI outcomes clustered together with IL-17, IL-12p70, and IL-1beta. MRI outcomes also showed clustering with EV markers CD62E/P, MIC A/B, ICAM-1, and CD42A. The combined cluster of these cytokines, EV markers, and MRI outcomes clustered also with IL-12p40 and IL-7. All four MRI outcomes correlated positively with levels of IL-17 (p < 0.001, respectively), and EV-ICAM-1 (p < 0.0003, respectively). IL-1beta levels positively correlated with the number of new Gd-enhancing lesions (p < 0.01), new FLAIR lesions (p < 0.001), and total number of Gd-enhancing lesions (p < 0.05). IL-6 levels positively correlated with the number of new FLAIR lesions (p < 0.05). Random Forests and linear mixed models identified IL-17, CCL17/TARC, CCL3/MIP-1alpha, and TNF-alpha as composite biomarkers predicting new lesion evolution. CONCLUSIONS: Combination of serial frequent MRI with proteome, neuroinflammation markers, and protein array data of EVs enabled assessment of temporal changes in inflammation and endothelial dysfunction in RMS related to the evolution of new and enhancing lesions. Particularly, the Th17 pathway and IL-1beta clustered and correlated with new lesions and Gd enhancement, indicating their importance in BBB disruption and initiating acute brain inflammation in MS. In addition to the Th17 pathway, abundant protein changes between MRI activity groups suggested the role of EVs and the coagulation system along with innate immune responses including acute phase proteins, complement components, and neutrophil degranulation.
PXD040992	38138996	TMT-Based Proteomics Analysis Revealed the Protein Changes in Perirenal Fat from Obese Rabbits. 	Proteomic analysis (TMT) of rabbit adipose tissue		Obesity has become increasingly prevalent in recent years, and there is a need for a deeper understanding of the complex pathogenesis underlying the obesity condition. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate how a high-fat diet (HFD) affects protein expression in a female-rabbit model compared to a standard normal-diet group (SND), to gain comprehensive insights into the molecular mechanisms involved in obesity. To achieve this objective, a tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics analysis was conducted to examine the molecular changes occurring in the white adipose tissue (WAT) from the HFD and SND groups. The sequencing results identified a total of 4215 proteins, among which 151 proteins exhibited significant differential expression. Specifically, there were 85 upregulated proteins and 66 downregulated proteins in the HFD group compared to the SND group. Further analysis of these differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) revealed their involvement in crucial biological processes, including energy metabolism, hormonal regulation, and inflammatory response. In conclusion, this study sheds light on the impact of HFD on protein expression in a female-rabbit model, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying obesity and the associated metabolic disorders.
PXD046788	38140504	Unraveling Epigenetic Changes in A. thaliana Calli: Impact of HDAC Inhibitors. 	Unraveling epigenetic changes in A. thaliana calli: Impact of HDAC inhibitors	callus formation, epigenetics, histone posttranslational modifications, sodium butyrate, trichostatin A	The ability for plant regeneration from dedifferentiated cells opens up the possibility for molecular bioengineering to produce crops with desirable traits. Developmental and environmental signals that control cell totipotency are regulated by gene expression via dynamic chromatin remodeling. Using a mass spectrometry-based approach, we investigated epigenetic changes to the histone proteins during callus formation from roots and shoots of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings. Increased levels of the histone H3.3 variant were found to be the major and most prominent feature of 20-day calli, associated with chromatin relaxation. The methylation status in root- and shoot-derived calli reached the same level during long-term propagation, whereas differences in acetylation levels provided a long-lasting imprint of root and shoot origin. On the other hand, epigenetic signs of origin completely disappeared during 20 days of calli propagation in the presence of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), sodium butyrate, and trichostatin A. Each HDACi affected the state of post-translational histone modifications in a specific manner; NaB-treated calli were epigenetically more similar to root-derived calli, and TSA-treated calli resembled shoot-derived calli.
PXD034607	38141762	Toxoplasma gondii Mitochondrial Association Factor 1b interactome reveals novel binding partners including Ral GTPase Accelerating Protein alpha1. 	Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange of MAF1 and RalGAP	HDX, HDX-MS, MAF1, RalGAP	The intracellular parasite, Toxoplasma gondii, has developed sophisticated molecular strategies to subvert host processes and promote growth and survival. During infection, T. gondii replicates in a parasitophorous vacuole (PV) and modulates host functions through a network of secreted proteins. Of these, Mitochondrial Association Factor 1b (MAF1b) recruits host mitochondria to the PV, a process which confers an in vivo growth advantage, though the precise mechanisms remain enigmatic. To address this knowledge gap, we mapped the MAF1b interactome in human fibroblasts using a commercial Yeast-2-hybrid (Y2H) screen, which revealed several previously unidentified binding partners including the GAP domain of Ral GTPase Accelerating Protein alpha1 (RalGAPalpha1(GAP)). Recombinantly produced MAF1b and RalGAPalpha1(GAP) formed as a stable binary complex as shown by size exclusion chromatography with a Kd of 334 nM as measured by isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC). Notably, no binding was detected between RalGAPalpha1(GAP) and the structurally conserved MAF1b homolog, MAF1a, which does not recruit host mitochondria. Next, we used hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) to map the RalGAPalpha1(GAP)-MAF1b interface, which led to identification of the "GAP-binding loop" on MAF1b that was confirmed by mutagenesis and ITC to be necessary for complex formation. A high confidence Alphafold model predicts the GAP-binding loop to lie at the RalGAPalpha1(GAP)-MAF1b interface further supporting the HDX-MS data. Mechanistic implications of a RalGAPalpha1(GAP)-MAF1b complex are discussed in the context of T. gondii infection and indicates that MAF1b may have evolved multiple independent functions to increase T. gondii fitness.
PXD046212	38141765	Endolysosomal TRPML1 channel regulates cancer cell migration by altering intracellular trafficking of E-cadherin and beta1-integrin. 	Endolysosomal TRPML1 channel regulates cancer cell-migration by facilitating the intracellular trafficking of E-cadherin and beta1-integrin	Cancer biology, adhesion, ion channel, lysosome, migration	Metastasis still accounts for 90 % of all cancer related death cases. An increase of cellular mobility and invasive traits of cancer cells mark two crucial prerequisites of metastasis. Recent studies highlight the involvement of the endolysosomal cation channel TRPML1 in cell migration. Our results identified a widely anti-migratory effect upon loss of TRPML1 function in a panel of cell lines in vitro and reduced dissemination in vivo. As mode-of-action, we established TRPML1 as a crucial regulator of cytosolic calcium levels, actin polymerisation and intracellular trafficking of two pro-migratory proteins: E-cadherin and beta1-integrin. Interestingly, knockout (KO) of TRPML1 differentially interferes with the recycling process of E-cadherin and beta1-integrin in a cell line dependant manner, whilst resulting in the same phenotype of decreased migratory and adhesive capacities in vitro. Additionally, we observed a coherence between reduction of E-cadherin levels at membrane site and phosphorylation of NF-kappaB in a beta-catenin/p38-mediated manner. As a result, an E-cadherin/ NF-kappaB feedback loop is generated regulating E-cadherin expression on a transcriptional level. Consequently, our findings highlight the role of TRPML1 as a regulator in migratory processes and suggest the ion channel as a suitable target for the inhibition of migration and invasion.
PXD041667	38141890	Nitric oxide-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress of Schistosoma japonicum inhibits the worm development in rats. 	S-nitrosocysteine proteomics of Schistosoma japonicum collected from infected mice and rats	S-nitrosocysteine proteomics, Schistosoma japonicum, rat	Schistosomiasis, caused by Schistosoma spp., is a zoonotic parasitic disease affecting human health. Rattus norvegicus (rats) are a non-permissive host of Schistosoma, in which the worms cannot mature and cause typical egg granuloma. We previously demonstrated that inherent high levels of nitric oxide (NO), produced by inducible NO synthase (iNOS), is a key molecule in blocking the development of S. japonicum in rats. To further explore the mechanism of NO inhibiting S. japonicum development in rats, we performed S-nitrosocysteine proteomics of S. japonicum collected from infected rats and mice. The results suggested that S. japonicum in rats may have undergone endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Interestingly, we found that the ER of S. japonicum in rats showed marked damage, while the ER of the worm in iNOS(-/-) rats and mice were relatively normal. Moreover, the expression of ER stress markers in S. japonicum from WT rats was significantly increased, compared with S. japonicum from iNOS(-/-) rats and mice. Using the NO donor sodium nitroprusside in vitro, we demonstrated that NO could induce ER stress in S. japonicum in a dose-dependent manner, and the NO-induced ER stress in S. japonicum could be inhibited by ER stress inhibitor 4-Phenyl butyric acid. We further verified that inhibiting ER stress of S. japonicum in rats promoted parasite development and survival. Furthermore, we demonstrated that NO-induced ER stress of S. japonicum was related to the efflux of Ca(2+) from ER and the impairment mitochondrial function. Collectively, these findings show that high levels of NO in rats could induce ER stress in S. japonicum by promoting the efflux of Ca(2+) from ER and damaging the mitochondrial function, which block the worm development. Thus, this study further clarifies the mechanism of anti-schistosome in rats and provides potential strategies for drug development against schistosomiasis and other parasitosis.
PXD039548	38141925	Remodelling of the cardiac extracellular matrix proteome during chronological and pathological ageing. 	Remodeling of the cardiac extracellular matrix proteome during chronological and pathological aging	Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome, aging, extracellular matrix, lactadherin, left ventricle	Impaired extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling is a hallmark of many chronic inflammatory disorders that can lead to cellular dysfunction, ageing, and disease progression. The ECM of the aged heart and its effects on cardiac cells during chronological and pathological ageing are poorly understood across species. For this purpose, we first used mass spectrometry-based proteomics to quantitatively characterize age-related remodelling of the left ventricle (LV) of mice and humans during chronological and pathological (Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS)) ageing. Of the approximately 300 ECM and ECM-associated proteins quantified (named as Matrisome), we identified 13 proteins that were increased during aging, including lactadherin (MFGE8), collagen VI alpha6 (COL6A6), vitronectin (VTN) and immunoglobulin heavy constant mu (IGHM), whereas fibulin-5 (FBLN5) was decreased in most of the data sets analysed. We show that lactadherin accumulates with age in large cardiac blood vessels and when immobilized, triggers phosphorylation of several phosphosites of GSK3B, MAPK isoforms 1, 3, and 14, and MTOR kinases in aortic endothelial cells (ECs). In addition, immobilized lactadherin increased the expression of pro-inflammatory markers associated with an ageing phenotype. These results extend our knowledge of the LV proteome remodelling induced by chronological and pathological ageing in different species (mouse and human). The lactadherin-triggered changes in the proteome and phosphoproteome of ECs suggest a straight link between ECM component remodelling and the ageing process of ECs, which may provide an additional layer to prevent cardiac ageing.
PXD045656	38142457	Global Hfq-mediated RNA interactome of nitrogen starved Escherichia coli uncovers a conserved post-transcriptional regulatory axis required for optimal growth recovery. 	Whole-cell differential proteomics analysis of MG1655 Escherichia coli (Wild-type and mutants lacking the small regulatory RNA SdsR, OxyS or ZbiJ, or the RNA Chaperone Hfq) experiencing long-term nitrogen starvation in Gutnick minimal media.	E coli, hfq, nitrogen starvation, oxys, sdsr, srna, stationary phase, zbij	The RNA binding protein Hfq has a central role in the post-transcription control of gene expression in many bacteria. Numerous studies have mapped the transcriptome-wide Hfq-mediated RNA-RNA interactions in growing bacteria or bacteria that have entered short-term growth-arrest. To what extent post-transcriptional regulation underpins gene expression in growth-arrested bacteria remains unknown. Here, we used nitrogen (N) starvation as a model to study the Hfq-mediated RNA interactome as Escherichia coli enter, experience, and exit long-term growth arrest. We observe that the Hfq-mediated RNA interactome undergoes extensive changes during N starvation, with the conserved SdsR sRNA making the most interactions with different mRNA targets exclusively in long-term N-starved E. coli. Taking a proteomics approach, we reveal that in growth-arrested cells SdsR influences gene expression far beyond its direct mRNA targets. We demonstrate that the absence of SdsR significantly compromises the ability of the mutant bacteria to recover growth competitively from the long-term N-starved state and uncover a conserved post-transcriptional regulatory axis which underpins this process.
PXD042904	38143961	Inhibition of miR-199a-3p in a murine hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) model attenuates fibrotic remodeling. 	Inhibition of miR-199a-3p in a murine hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) model attenuates fibrotic remodeling	cardiac fibroblast, micro RNA, secretome	Background: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder, characterized by cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, cardiomyocyte disarray and fibrosis, which has a prevalence of ~1: 200-500 and predisposes individuals to heart failure and sudden death. The mechanisms through which diverse HCM-causing mutations cause cardiac dysfunction remain mostly unknown and their identification may reveal new therapeutic avenues. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as critical regulators of gene expression and disease phenotype in various pathologies. We explored whether miRNAs could play a role in HCM pathogenesis and offer potential therapeutic targets. Methods and results: Using high-throughput miRNA expression profiling and qPCR analysis in two distinct mouse models of HCM, we found that miR-199a-3p expression levels are upregulated in mutant mice compared to age- and treatment-matched wild-type mice. We also found that miR-199a-3p expression is enriched in cardiac non-myocytes compared to cardiomyocytes. When we expressed miR-199a-3p mimic in cultured murine primary cardiac fibroblasts and analyzed the conditioned media by proteomics, we found that several extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins (e.g., TSP2, FBLN3, COL11A1, LYOX) were differentially secreted (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042904). We confirmed our proteomics findings by qPCR analysis of selected mRNAs and demonstrated that miR-199a-3p mimic expression in cardiac fibroblasts drives upregulation of ECM gene expression, including Tsp2, Fbln3, Pcoc1, Col1a1 and Col3a1. To examine the role of miR-199a-3p in vivo, we inhibited its function using lock-nucleic acid (LNA)-based inhibitors (antimiR-199a-3p) in an HCM mouse model. Our results revealed that progression of cardiac fibrosis is attenuated when miR-199a-3p function is inhibited in mild-to-moderate HCM. Finally, guided by computational target prediction algorithms, we identified mRNAs Cd151 and Itga3 as direct targets of miR-199a-3p and have shown that miR-199a-3p mimic expression negatively regulates AKT activation in cardiac fibroblasts. Conclusions: Altogether, our results suggest that miR-199a-3p may contribute to cardiac fibrosis in HCM through its actions in cardiac fibroblasts. Thus, inhibition of miR-199a-3p in mild-to-moderate HCM may offer therapeutic benefit in combination with complementary approaches that target the primary defect in cardiac myocytes.
PXD046368	38144176	Peptidomics insights: neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) related to the chronic subdural hemorrhage. 	Distinct peptide profiles in human dura of CSDH	Peptiomics	Chronic subdural hemorrhage (CSDH) refers to a hematoma with an envelope between the dura mater and the arachnoid membrane and is more common among the elderly. It was reported that the dura mater, which is highly vascularized with capillary beds, precapillary arterioles and postcapillary venules play an important role in the protection of the central nervous system (CNS). Numerous evidences suggests that peptides play an important role in neuroprotection of CNS. However, whether dura mater derived endogenous peptides participate in the pathogenesis of CSDH remains undetermined. In the current study, the peptidomic profiles were performed in human dura of CSDH (three patients) and the relative control group (three non-CSDH samples) by LC-MS (liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry). The results suggested that a total of 569 peptides were differentially expressed in the dura matter of CSDH compared with relative controls, including 217 up-regulated peptides and 352 down-regulated peptides. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis demonstrated that the precursor proteins of those differentially expressed peptides were involved in the various biological processes. Interestingly, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis suggested that NETs participated in the pathogenies of CSDH. Further investigate showed that H3Cit was significantly elevated in the dural and hematoma membranes of patients with CSDH compared to patients without CSDH. Taken together, our results showed the differentially expressed peptides in human dura mater of CSDH and demonstrated that NETs formation in the dural and hematoma membranes might be involved in the pathogenesis of CSDH. It is worth noting that pharmacological inhibition of NETs may have potential therapeutic implications for CSDH.
PXD042864	38144336	Comparative secretome analysis reveals cross-talk between type III secretion system and flagella assembly in Pseudomonas plecoglossicida. 	Pseudomonas plecoglossicida and mutant supernatant LC-MS/MS analysis	Flagella, LC-MS/MS analysis, Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, Secretome, Type III secretion systems, popBD	The Gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas plecoglossicida has caused visceral granulomas disease in several farmed fish species, including large yellow croaker (Larimichthys crocea), which results in severe economic losses. Type III secretion systems (T3SS) are protein secretion and translocation nanomachines widely employed by many Gram-negative bacterial pathogens for infection and pathogenicity. However, the exact role of T3SS in the pathogenesis of P. plecoglossicida infection is still unclear. In this study, a T3SS translocators deletion strain (^popBD) of P. plecoglossicida was constructed to investigate the function of T3SS. Then comparative secretome analysis of the P. plecoglossicida wild-type (WT) and ^popBD mutant strains was conducted by label-free quantitation (LFQ) mass spectrometry. The results show that knockout of T3SS translocators popB and popD has an adverse effect on the effector protein ExoU secretion, flagella assembly, and biofilm formation. Further experimental validations also confirmed that popB-popD deletion could affect the P. plecoglossicida flagella morphology/formation, adherence, mobility, and biofilm formation. These data indicate that a cross-talk exists between the P. plecoglossicida T3SS and the flagella system. Our results, therefore, will facilitate the further under-standing of the pathogenic mechanisms leading to visceral granulomas disease caused by P. plecoglossicida.
PXD044920	38145346	Flexible Organic Photovoltaic-Powered Hydrogel Bioelectronic Dressing With Biomimetic Electrical Stimulation for Healing Infected Diabetic Wounds. 	Proteomic analysis of chronic skin wounds in diabetic mice following electrical stimulation therapy delivered by a novel electrostimulation-hydrogel wound dressing	Bacterial infection, Bioelectronics, Diabetic wound healing, Electrical stimulation, Hydrogel, Skin wound	Electrical stimulation (ES) is proposed as a therapeutic solution for managing chronic wounds. However, its widespread clinical adoption is limited by the requirement of additional extracorporeal devices to power ES-based wound dressings. In this study, a novel sandwich-structured photovoltaic microcurrent hydrogel dressing (PMH dressing) is designed for treating diabetic wounds. This innovative dressing comprises flexible organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells, a flexible micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) electrode, and a multifunctional hydrogel serving as an electrode-tissue interface. The PMH dressing is engineered to administer ES, mimicking the physiological injury current occurring naturally in wounds when exposed to light; thus, facilitating wound healing. In vitro experiments are performed to validate the PMH dressing's exceptional biocompatibility and robust antibacterial properties. In vivo experiments and proteomic analysis reveal that the proposed PMH dressing significantly accelerates the healing of infected diabetic wounds by enhancing extracellular matrix regeneration, eliminating bacteria, regulating inflammatory responses, and modulating vascular functions. Therefore, the PMH dressing is a potent, versatile, and effective solution for diabetic wound care, paving the way for advancements in wireless ES wound dressings.
PXD047527	38145589	Regulation of respiratory complex I assembly by FMN cofactor targeting. 	Assembly of respiratory complex I is regulated by FMN insertion into the N-module.	human Nmodule	Respiratory complex I plays a crucial role in the mitochondrial electron transport chain and shows promise as a therapeutic target for various human diseases. While most studies focus on inhibiting complex I at the Q-site, little is known about inhibitors targeting other sites within the complex. In this study, we demonstrate that diphenyleneiodonium (DPI), a N-site inhibitor, uniquely affects the stability of complex I by reacting with its flavin cofactor FMN. Treatment with DPI blocks the final stage of complex I assembly, leading to the complete and reversible degradation of complex I in different cellular models. Growing cells in medium lacking the FMN precursor riboflavin or knocking out the mitochondrial flavin carrier gene SLC25A32 results in a similar complex I degradation. Overall, our findings establish a direct connection between mitochondrial flavin homeostasis and complex I stability and assembly, paving the way for novel pharmacological strategies to regulate respiratory complex I.
PXD043087	38147550	ANGPTL4 binds to the leptin receptor to regulate ectopic bone formation. 	ANGPTL4 binds to leptin receptor to regulate ectopic bone formation and fat metabolism	ANGPTL4, fat metabolism, heterotopic ossification, leptin receptor	Leptin protein was thought to be unique to leptin receptor (LepR), but the phenotypes of mice with mutation in LepR [db/db (diabetes)] and leptin [ob/ob (obese)] are not identical, and the cause remains unclear. Here, we show that db/db, but not ob/ob, mice had defect in tenotomy-induced heterotopic ossification (HO), implicating alternative ligand(s) for LepR might be involved. Ligand screening revealed that ANGPTL4 (angiopoietin-like protein 4), a stress and fasting-induced factor, was elicited from brown adipose tissue after tenotomy, bound to LepR on PRRX1(+) mesenchymal cells at the HO site, thus promotes chondrogenesis and HO development. Disruption of LepR in PRRX1(+) cells, or lineage ablation of LepR(+) cells, or deletion of ANGPTL4 impeded chondrogenesis and HO in mice. Together, these findings identify ANGPTL4 as a ligand for LepR to regulate the formation of acquired HO.
PXD043165	38148333	SMYD3: a new regulator of adipocyte precursor proliferation at the early steps of differentiation. 	SMYD3: a new regulator of the early steps of adipocyte differentiation	adipose tissue, mice	BACKGROUND: In obesity, adipose tissue undergoes a remodeling process characterized by increased adipocyte size (hypertrophia) and number (hyperplasia). The ability to tip the balance toward the hyperplastic growth, with recruitment of new fat cells through adipogenesis, seems to be critical for a healthy adipose tissue expansion, as opposed to a hypertrophic growth that is accompanied by the development of inflammation and metabolic dysfunction. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the fine-tuned regulation of adipose tissue expansion are far from being understood. METHODS: We analyzed by mass spectrometry-based proteomics visceral white adipose tissue (vWAT) samples collected from C57BL6 mice fed with a HFD for 8 weeks. A subset of these mice, called low inflammation (Low-INFL), showed reduced adipose tissue inflammation, as opposed to those developing the expected inflammatory response (Hi-INFL). We identified the discriminants between Low-INFL and Hi-INFL vWAT samples and explored their function in Adipose-Derived human Mesenchymal Stem Cells (AD-hMSCs) differentiated to adipocytes. RESULTS: vWAT proteomics allowed us to quantify 6051 proteins. Among the candidates that most differentiate Low-INFL from Hi-INFL vWAT, we found proteins involved in adipocyte function, including adiponectin and hormone sensitive lipase, suggesting that adipocyte differentiation is enhanced in Low-INFL, as compared to Hi-INFL. The chromatin modifier SET and MYND Domain Containing 3 (SMYD3), whose function in adipose tissue was so far unknown, was another top-scored hit. SMYD3 expression was significantly higher in Low-INFL vWAT, as confirmed by western blot analysis. Using AD-hMSCs in culture, we found that SMYD3 mRNA and protein levels decrease rapidly during the adipocyte differentiation. Moreover, SMYD3 knock-down before adipocyte differentiation resulted in reduced H3K4me3 and decreased cell proliferation, thus limiting the number of cells available for adipogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: Our study describes an important role of SMYD3 as a newly discovered regulator of adipocyte precursor proliferation during the early steps of adipogenesis.
PXD042744	38151018	A mitophagy sensor PPTC7 controls BNIP3 and NIX degradation to regulate mitochondrial mass. 	PPTC7 integrates homeostatic and physiological signals to regulate mitophagy and mitochondrial mass	FBXL4, PPTC7, metabolism, mitochondial mass, mitophagy receptors BNIP3 and NIX, ubiquitination	Mitophagy mediated by BNIP3 and NIX critically regulates mitochondrial mass. Cellular BNIP3 and NIX levels are tightly controlled by SCF(FBXL4)-mediated ubiquitination to prevent excessive mitochondrial loss and lethal disease. Here, we report that knockout of PPTC7, a mitochondrial matrix protein, hyperactivates BNIP3-/NIX-mediated mitophagy and causes perinatal lethality that is rescued by NIX knockout in mice. Biochemically, the PPTC7 precursor is trapped by BNIP3 and NIX to the mitochondrial outer membrane, where PPTC7 scaffolds assembly of a substrate-PPTC7-SCF(FBXL4) holocomplex to degrade BNIP3 and NIX, forming a homeostatic regulatory loop. PPTC7 possesses an unusually weak mitochondrial targeting sequence to facilitate its outer membrane retention and mitophagy control. Starvation upregulates PPPTC7 expression in mouse liver to repress mitophagy, which critically maintains hepatic mitochondrial mass, bioenergetics, and gluconeogenesis. Collectively, PPTC7 functions as a mitophagy sensor that integrates homeostatic and physiological signals to dynamically control BNIP3 and NIX degradation, thereby maintaining mitochondrial mass and cellular homeostasis.
PXD043476	38154689	msqrob2PTM: differential abundance and differential usage analysis of MS-based proteomics data at the post-translational modification and peptidoform level. 	msqrob2PTM: differential abundance and differential usage analysis of MS-based proteomics data at the post-translational modification and peptidoform level	PTM, msqrob, msqrob2PTM, peptidoform	In the era of open-modification search engines, more post-translational modifications than ever can be detected by LC-MS/MS-based proteomics. This development can switch proteomics research into a higher gear, as PTMs are key in many cellular pathways important in cell proliferation, migration, metastasis and ageing. However, despite these advances in modification identification, statistical methods for PTM-level quantification and differential analysis have yet to catch up. This absence can partly be explained by statistical challenges inherent to the data, such as the confounding of PTM intensities with its parent protein abundance. Therefore, we have developed msqrob2PTM, a new workflow in the msqrob2 universe capable of differential abundance analysis at the PTM, and at the peptidoform level. The latter is important for validating PTMs found as significantly differential. Indeed, as our method can deal with multiple PTMs per peptidoform, there is a possibility that significant PTMs stem from one significant peptidoform carrying another PTM, hinting that it might be the other PTM driving the perceived differential abundance. Our workflows can flag both Differential Peptidoform (PTM) Abundance (DPA) and Differential Peptidoform (PTM) Usage (DPU). This enables a distinction between direct assessment of differential abundance of peptidoforms (DPA) and differences in the relative usage of peptidoforms corrected for corresponding protein abundances (DPU). For DPA, we directly model the log2-transformed peptidoform (PTM) intensities, while for DPU, we correct for parent protein abundance by an intermediate normalisation step which calculates the log2-ratio of the peptidoform (PTM) intensities to their summarized parent protein intensities. We demonstrated the utility and performance of msqrob2PTM by applying it to datasets with known ground truth, as well as to biological PTM-rich datasets. Our results show that msqrob2PTM is on par with, or surpassing the performance of, the current state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, msqrob2PTM is currently unique in providing output at the peptidoform level.
PXD047040	38154690	Multiplexed Antibody Glycosylation Profiling Using Dual Enzyme Digestion and Liquid Chromatography-Triple Quadrupole Mass Spectrometry Method. 	Multiplexed Antibody Glycosylation Profiling Using Dual Enzyme Digestion and Liquid Chromatography-Triple Quadrupole Mass Spectrometry Method	N-glycosylation, antibody profiling, human immunoglobulin, liquid chromatography	Antibody glycosylation plays a crucial role in the humoral immune response by regulating effector functions and influencing the binding affinity to immune cell receptors. Previous studies have focused mainly on the immunoglobulin G (IgG) isotype owing to the analytical challenges associated with other isotypes. Thus, the development of a sensitive and accurate analytical platform is necessary to characterize antibody glycosylation across multiple isotypes. In this study, we have developed an analytical workflow using antibody-light-chain affinity beads to purify IgG, IgA, and IgM from 16 muL of human plasma. Dual enzymes, trypsin and Glu-C, were used during on-bead digestion to obtain enzymatic glycopeptides and protein-specific surrogate peptides. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with triple quadrupole mass spectrometry was used in order to determine the sensitivity and specificity. Our platform targets 95 glycopeptides across the IgG, IgA, and IgM isotypes, as well as eight surrogate peptides representing total IgG, four IgG classes, two IgA classes, and IgM. Four stable isotope-labeled internal standards were added after antibody purification to calibrate the preparation and instrumental bias during analysis. Calibration curves constructed using serially diluted plasma samples showed good curve fitting (R(2) > 0.959). The intra- and inter-batch precision for all the targets had relative standard deviation of less than 29.6%. This method was applied to 19 human plasma samples, and the glycosylation percentages were calculated, which were comparable to those reported in the literature. The developed method is sensitive and accurate for Ig glycosylation profiling. It can be used in clinical investigations, particularly for detailed humoral immune profiling.
PXD041354	38154691	Interactome analysis identifies the role of BZW2 in promoting endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial contact and mitochondrial metabolism. 	INTERACTOME ANALYSIS IDENTIFIES THE ROLE OF BZW2 IN PROMOTING ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM-MITOCHONDRIAL CONTACT AND MITOCHONDRIAL METABOLISM	BZW2, MAM, MERCS, calcium, interactome, lipid metabolism., mitochondrial metabolism	Understanding the molecular functions of less-studied proteins is an important task of life science research. Despite reports of BZW2 (Basic leucine zipper and W2 domain-containing protein 2) promoting cancer progression first emerging in 2017, little is known about its molecular function. Using a quantitative proteomic approach to identify its interacting proteins, we found that BZW2 interacts with both endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondrial proteins. We thus hypothesized that BZW2 localizes to and promotes the formation of ER-mitochondrial contact sites, and that such localization would promote calcium transport from ER to the mitochondria and promote ATP production. Indeed, we found that BZW2 localized to ER-mitochondria contact sites and that BZW2 knockdown decreased ER-mitochondrial contact, mitochondrial calcium levels, and ATP production. These findings provide key insights into molecular functions of BZW2, the potential role of BZW2 in cancer progression, and highlight the utility of interactome data in understanding the function of less-studied proteins.
PXD042403	38155636	Defining the Cell Surface Cysteinome Using Two-Step Enrichment Proteomics. 	Stratifying the Cell Surface Cysteinome using Two-step Enrichment Proteomics	Cell surface, Chemoproteomics, Cysteines, Oxidation states, T cell activation	The plasma membrane proteome is a rich resource of functionally important and therapeutically relevant protein targets. Distinguished by high hydrophobicity, heavy glycosylation, disulfide-rich sequences, and low overall abundance, the cell surface proteome remains undersampled in established proteomic pipelines, including our own cysteine chemoproteomics platforms. Here, we paired cell surface glycoprotein capture with cysteine chemoproteomics to establish a two-stage enrichment method that enables chemoproteomic profiling of cell Surface Cysteinome. Our "Cys-Surf" platform captures >2,800 total membrane protein cysteines in 1,046 proteins, including 1,907 residues not previously captured by bulk proteomic analysis. By pairing Cys-Surf with an isotopic chemoproteomic readout, we uncovered 821 total ligandable cysteines, including known and novel sites. Cys-Surf also robustly delineates redox-sensitive cysteines, including cysteines prone to activation-dependent changes to cysteine oxidation state and residues sensitive to addition of exogenous reductants. Exemplifying the capacity of Cys-Surf to delineate functionally important cysteines, we identified a redox sensitive cysteine in the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) that impacts both the protein localization and uptake of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. Taken together, the Cys-Surf platform, distinguished by its two-stage enrichment paradigm, represents a tailored approach to delineate the functional and therapeutic potential of the plasma membrane cysteinome.
PXD035623	38156797	Low dose ribosomal DNA P-loop mutation affects development and enforces autophagy in Arabidopsis. 	Low dose ribosomal DNA P-loop mutation affects development and enforces autophagy in Arabidopsis	Autophagy / CRISPR / development / plants / rRNA	Arabidopsis contains hundreds of ribosomal DNA copies organized within the nucleolar organizing regions (NORs) in chromosomes 2 and 4. There are four major types of variants of rDNA, VAR1-4, based on the polymorphisms of 3' external transcribed sequences. The variants are known to be differentially expressed during plant development. We created a mutant by the CRISPR-Cas9-mediated excision of ~ 25 nt from predominantly NOR4 ribosomal DNA copies, obtaining mosaic mutational events on ~ 5% of all rDNA copies. The excised region consists of P-loop and Helix-82 segments of 25S rRNA. The mutation led to allelic, dosage-dependent defects marked by lateral root inhibition, reduced size, and pointy leaves, all previously observed for defective ribosomal function. The mutation in NOR4 led to dosage compensation from the NOR2 copies by elevated expression of VAR1 in mutants and further associated single-nucleotide variants, thus, resulting in altered rRNA sub-population. Furthermore, the mutants exhibited rRNA maturation defects specifically in the minor pathway typified by 32S pre-rRNA accumulation. Density-gradient fractionation and subsequent RT-PCR of rRNA analyses revealed that mutated copies were not incorporated into the translating ribosomes. The mutants in addition displayed an elevated autophagic flux as shown by the autophagic marker GFP-ATG8e, likely related to ribophagy.
PXD047327	38157846	Dual regulation of SLC25A39 by AFG3L2 and iron controls mitochondrial glutathione homeostasis. 	Dual regulation of SLC25A39 by AFG3L2 and iron controls mitochondrial glutathione homeostasis	AFG3L2, Mitochondrial transporter, SLC25A39, glutathione, iron, protein quality control	Organelle transporters define metabolic compartmentalization, and how this metabolite transport process can be modulated is poorly explored. Here, we discovered that human SLC25A39, a mitochondrial transporter critical for mitochondrial glutathione uptake, is a short-lived protein under dual regulation at the protein level. Co-immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry and CRISPR knockout (KO) in mammalian cells identified that mitochondrial m-AAA protease AFG3L2 is responsible for degrading SLC25A39 through the matrix loop 1. SLC25A39 senses mitochondrial iron-sulfur cluster using four matrix cysteine residues and inhibits its degradation. SLC25A39 protein regulation is robust in developing and mature neurons. This dual transporter regulation, by protein quality control and metabolic sensing, allows modulating mitochondrial glutathione level in response to iron homeostasis, opening avenues for exploring regulation of metabolic compartmentalization. Neuronal SLC25A39 regulation connects mitochondrial protein quality control, glutathione, and iron homeostasis, which were previously unrelated biochemical features in neurodegeneration.
PXD045268	38158710	Integrated proteomics spotlight the proteasome as a therapeutic vulnerability in Embryonal Tumors with Multilayered Rosettes. 	Integrated proteomics spotlight the proteasome as a pervasive therapeutic vulnerability in Embryonal Tumors with Multilayered Rosettes (ETMR)	850K, DNA methylation, ETMR, Embryonal Tumor with Multilayered Rosettes, LIN28A, embryonal brain tumor, methylome, multiomics, transcriptome	BACKGROUND: Embryonal tumors with multilayered rosettes (ETMR) are rare malignant embryonal brain tumors. The prognosis of ETMR is poor and novel therapeutic approaches are desperately needed. Comprehension of ETMR tumor biology is currently based on only few previous molecular studies, which mainly focused on the analyses of nucleic acids. In this study, we explored integrated ETMR proteomics. METHODS: Using mass spectrometry, proteome data were acquired from 16 ETMR and the ETMR cell line BT183. Proteome data were integrated with case-matched global DNA methylation data, publicly available transcriptome data, and proteome data of further embryonal and pediatric brain tumors. RESULTS: Proteome-based cluster analyses grouped ETMR samples according to histomorphology, separating neuropil-rich tumors with neuronal signatures from primitive tumors with signatures relating to stemness and chromosome organization. Integrated proteomics showcased that ETMR and BT183 cells harbor proteasome regulatory proteins in abundancy, implicating their strong dependency on the proteasome machinery to safeguard proteostasis. Indeed, in vitro assays using BT183 highlighted that ETMR tumor cells are highly vulnerable towards treatment with the CNS penetrant proteasome inhibitor Marizomib. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, histomorphology stipulates the proteome signatures of ETMR, and proteasome regulatory proteins are pervasively abundant in these tumors. As validated in vitro, proteasome inhibition poses a promising therapeutic option in ETMR.
PXD043050	38159387	Liquid semen storage-induced alteration in the protein composition of turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) spermatozoa. 	Proteomic analysis of fresh and liquid stored turkey spermatozoa	2D-DIGE, MALDI TOF/TOF, spermatozoa, turkey	Liquid storage of turkey semen without the loss of fertilizing ability is of practical interest to the poultry industry. However, fertility rates from liquid-stored turkey semen decline within a few hours. A clear cause of the decline in spermatozoa quality remains unidentified. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to monitor the dynamics of proteomic changes in spermatozoa during 48 h of liquid storage by 2-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry. A total of 57 protein spots were differentially expressed between fresh and stored spermatozoa; 42 spots were more and 15 were less abundant after 48 h of semen storage. Raw proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD043050. The selected differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were validated by western blotting and localized in specific spermatozoa structures by immunofluorescence, such as the head (acrosin and tubulin alpha), midpiece (acrosin, aconitate hydratase 2, and glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) and tail (tubulin alpha). Most of the DEPs that changed in response to liquid storage were related to flagellum-dependent cell motility, energy derivation through oxidation of organic compounds and induction of fertilization, suggesting the complexity of the processes leading to the decrease in stored semen quality. The damaging effect of liquid storage on spermatozoa flagellum manifested as more microtubule proteins, such as tubulins and tektins, most likely formed by posttranslational modifications, tubulin alpha relocation from the tail to the sperm head, which appeared after 48 h of semen storage, and decreases in fibrous shelf proteins at the same time. Motility could be affected by dysregulation of Ca(2+)-binding proteins and disturbances in energy metabolism in spermatozoa flagellum. Regarding sperm mitochondria, DEPs involved in energy derivation through the oxidation of organic compounds indicated disturbances in fatty acid beta oxidation and the tricarboxylic acid cycle as possible reasons for energy deficiency during liquid storage. Disturbances in acrosin and 1-phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate phosphodiesterase zeta may be involved in rapid declines in the fertility potential of stored turkey spermatozoa. These results showed the complexity of the processes leading to a decrease in stored semen quality and broadened knowledge of the detrimental effects of liquid storage on turkey spermatozoa physiology.
PXD047691	38159483	Target identification, and optimization of dioxygenated amide derivatives as potent antibacterial agents with FabH inhibitory activity. 	Target identification of dioxygenated amide derivatives interacting proteins	FabH inhibitory activity, antibacterial agents	The enzyme FabH plays a critical role in the initial step of fatty acid biosynthesis, which is vital for the survival of bacteria. As a result, FabH has emerged as an appealing target for the development of novel antibacterial agents. In this study, employing the chemical proteomics method, we validated the previously identified skeleton amide derivatives bearing dioxygenated rings, potentially formed through metabolic processes. Building upon the proteomics findings, we then synthesized and evaluated 32 compounds containing N-heterocyclic amides for their antimicrobial activity for future optimizing the deoxygenated amides. Several compounds demonstrated potent antimicrobial properties with low toxicity, particularly compound 25, which exhibited remarkable potential as an agent with an MIC range of 1.25-3.13 mug/mL against the tested bacterial strains and an IC50 of 2.0 muM against E. coli-derived FabH. Furthermore, we evaluated nine analogues with relatively low MIC values through cytotoxicity and hemolytic activity assessments, Lipinski's rule-of-five criteria, and in silico ADMET predictions to ascertain their druggability potential. Notably, a detailed docking simulation was performed to investigate the binding interactions of compound 25 within the binding pocket of E. coli FabH, which encouragingly revealed strong binding interactions. Based on our findings, compound 25 emerges as the optimal candidate for in vivo therapy aimed at treating infected skin defects. Remarkably, the application of compound 25 demonstrated a significant reduction in the duration of wound infection and notably accelerated the healing process of infected wounds, achieving an impressive 94 % healing rate by day 10.
PXD047538	38159565	Recruitment of trimeric eIF2 by phosphatase non-catalytic subunit PPP1R15B. 	Recruitment of trimeric eIF2 by phosphatase non-catalytic subunit PPP1R15B	HD-MS, HDX-MS	Regulated protein phosphorylation controls most cellular processes. The protein phosphatase PP1 is the catalytic subunit of many holoenzymes that dephosphorylate serine/threonine residues. How these enzymes recruit their substrates is largely unknown. Here, we integrated diverse approaches to elucidate how the PP1 non-catalytic subunit PPP1R15B (R15B) captures its full trimeric eIF2 substrate. We found that the substrate-recruitment module of R15B is largely disordered with three short helical elements, H1, H2, and H3. H1 and H2 form a clamp that grasps the substrate in a region remote from the phosphorylated residue. A homozygous N423D variant, adjacent to H1, reducing substrate binding and dephosphorylation was discovered in a rare syndrome with microcephaly, developmental delay, and intellectual disability. These findings explain how R15B captures its 125 kDa substrate by binding the far end of the complex relative to the phosphosite to present it for dephosphorylation by PP1, a paradigm of broad relevance.
PXD044828	38159774	Triclosan and its alternatives, especially chlorhexidine, modulate macrophage immune response with distinct modes of action. 	Effects of Triclosan and its alternatives on LPS-stimulated THP-1 macrophages	BAM, BEC, CEO, CHX, CPC, TCS, THP-1	Since European regulators restricted the use of bacteriocidic triclosan (TCS), alternatives for TCS are emerging. Recently, TCS has been shown to reprogram immune metabolism, trigger the NLRP3 inflammasome, and subsequently the release of IL-1beta in human macrophages, but data on substitutes is scarce. Hence, we aimed to examine the effects of TCS compared to its alternatives at the molecular level in human macrophages. LPS-stimulated THP-1 macrophages were exposed to TCS or its substitutes, including benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, chloroxylenol, chlorhexidine (CHX) and cetylpyridinium chloride, with the inhibitory concentration (IC10-value) of cell viability to decipher their mode of action. TCS induced the release of the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF and high level of IL-1beta, suggesting the activation of the NLRP3-inflammasome, which was confirmed by non-apparent IL-1beta under the NLRP3-inhibitor MCC950 treatment d. While IL-6 release was reduced in all treatments, the alternative CHX completely abolished the release of all investigated cytokines. To unravel the underlying molecular mechanisms, we used untargeted LC-MS/MS-based proteomics. TCS and CHX showed the strongest cellular response at the protein and signalling pathway level, whereby pathways related to metabolism, translation, cellular stress and migration were mainly affected but to different proposed modes of action. TCS inhibited mitochondrial electron transfer and affected phagocytosis. In contrast, in CHX-treated cells, the translation was arrested due to stress conditions, resulting in the formation of stress granules. Mitochondrial (e.g. ATP5F1D, ATP5PB, UQCRQ) and ribosomal (e.g. RPL10, RPL35, RPS23) proteins were revealed as putative key drivers. Furthermore, we have demonstrated the formation of podosomes by CHX, potentially involved in ECM degradation. Our results exhibit modulation of the immune response in macrophages by TCS and its substitutes and illuminated underlying molecular effects. These results illustrate critical processes involved in the modulation of macrophages' immune response by TCS and its alternatives, providing information essential for hazard assessment.
PXD045665	38160938	Loss of lysosomal acid lipase results in mitochondrial dysfunction and fiber switch in skeletal muscles of mice. 	Loss of lysosomal acid lipase results in mitochondrial dysfunction and fiber switch in skeletal muscles of mice	LAL, LAL deficiency, Lal-deficient mouse, energy metabolism, muscle proteomics	OBJECTIVE: Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) is the only enzyme known to hydrolyze cholesteryl esters (CE) and triacylglycerols in lysosomes at an acidic pH. Despite the importance of lysosomal hydrolysis in skeletal muscle (SM), research in this area is limited. We hypothesized that LAL may play an important role in SM development, function, and metabolism as a result of lipid and/or carbohydrate metabolism disruptions. RESULTS: Mice with systemic LAL deficiency (Lal-/-) had markedly lower SM mass, cross-sectional area, and Feret diameter despite unchanged proteolysis or protein synthesis markers in all SM examined. In addition, Lal-/- SM showed increased total cholesterol and CE concentrations, especially during fasting and maturation. Regardless of increased glucose uptake, expression of the slow oxidative fiber marker MYH7 was markedly increased in Lal-/-SM, indicating a fiber switch from glycolytic, fast-twitch fibers to oxidative, slow-twitch fibers. Proteomic analysis of the oxidative and glycolytic parts of the SM confirmed the transition between fast- and slow-twitch fibers, consistent with the decreased Lal-/- muscle size due to the "fiber paradox". Decreased oxidative capacity and ATP concentration were associated with reduced mitochondrial function of Lal-/- SM, particularly affecting oxidative phosphorylation, despite unchanged structure and number of mitochondria. Impairment in muscle function was reflected by increased exhaustion in the treadmill peak effort test in vivo. CONCLUSION: We conclude that whole-body loss of LAL is associated with a profound remodeling of the muscular phenotype, manifested by fiber type switch and a decline in muscle mass, most likely due to dysfunctional mitochondria and impaired energy metabolism, at least in mice.
PXD040132	38161415	Glucose restriction enhances oxidative fiber formation: A multi-omic signal network involving AMPK and CaMK2. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis on skeletal muscle from Glut4 mutant mice	Glut4, glucose restriction, mouse model, muscle fiber	Skeletal muscle is a highly plastic organ that adapts to different metabolic states or functional demands. This study explored the impact of permanent glucose restriction (GR) on skeletal muscle composition and metabolism. Using Glut4m mice with defective glucose transporter 4, we conducted multi-omics analyses at different ages and after low-intensity treadmill training. The oxidative fibers were significantly increased in Glut4m muscles. Mechanistically, GR activated AMPK pathway, promoting mitochondrial function and beneficial myokine expression, and facilitated slow fiber formation via CaMK2 pathway. Phosphorylation-activated Perm1 may synergize AMPK and CaMK2 signaling. Besides, MAPK and CDK kinases were also implicated in skeletal muscle protein phosphorylation during GR response. This study provides a comprehensive signaling network demonstrating how GR influences muscle fiber types and metabolic patterns. These insights offer valuable data for understanding oxidative fiber formation mechanisms and identifying clinical targets for metabolic diseases.
PXD046692	38161423	A helicase-independent role of DHX15 promotes MYC stability and acute leukemia cell survival. 	A helicase-independent role of DHX15 promotes MYC stability and acute leukemia cell survival	DHX15, MYC, RNA helicase, leukemia, protein stability	DHX15 has been implicated in RNA splicing and ribosome biogenesis, primarily functioning as an RNA helicase. To systematically assess the cellular role of DHX15, we conducted proteomic analysis to investigate the landscape of DHX15 interactome, and identified MYC as a binding partner. DHX15 co-localizes with MYC in cells and directly interacts with MYC in vitro. Importantly, DHX15 contributes to MYC protein stability at the post-translational level and independent of its RNA binding capacity. Mechanistic investigation reveals that DHX15 interferes the interaction between MYC and FBXW7, thereby preventing MYC polyubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation. Consequently, the abrogation of DHX15 drastically inhibits MYC-mediated transcriptional output. While DHX15 depletion blocks T cell development and leukemia cell survival as we recently reported, overexpression of MYC significantly rescues the phenotypic defects. These findings shed light on the essential role of DHX15 in mammalian cells and suggest that maintaining sufficient MYC expression is a significant contributor to DHX15-mediated cellular functions.
PXD045568	38162673	Immunoproteomics reveal increased serum IgG3/5 binding to Dermatophagoides and yeast protein antigens in severe equine asthma in a preliminary study. 	In-Gel digest and filter-aided sample preparation to identify Dermatophagoides - and yeast protein antigens in severe equine asthma.	2D immunoblot, COPD, Immunoglobulin isotypes, LC-MS, RAO, asthma, heaves	Introduction: Severe equine asthma (SEA) is a common, chronic respiratory disease of horses characterized by hyperreactivity to hay dust which has many similarities to severe neutrophilic asthma in humans. SEA-provoking antigens have not been comprehensively characterized, but molds and mites have been suggested as relevant sources. Here, we identified relevant antigen candidates using immunoproteomics with IgG isotype-binding analyses. Methods: Proteins from Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Der p) were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by immunoblotting (2D immunoblots) resulting in a characteristic pattern of 440 spots. After serum incubation, antibody (Ig)-binding of all Ig (Pan-Ig) and IgG isotypes (type-2-associated IgG3/5, type-1-associated IgG4/7) was quantified per each spot and compared between asthmatic and healthy horses' sera (n=5 per group). Results: Ig binding differences were detected in 30 spots. Pan-Ig binding was higher with asthmatics compared to healthy horses' sera on four spots, and IgG3/5 binding was higher on 18 spots. Small IgG4/7 binding differences were detected on 10 spots with higher binding with asthmatics' sera on four but higher binding with healthy horses' sera on six spots. Proteins from the spots with group differences including mite and yeast proteins were identified by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. The latter likely originated from the feeding substrate of the Der p culture. Prioritized antigen candidates amongst the proteins identified were Der p 1, Der p 11, group 15 allergens, myosin heavy chain, and uncharacterized Der p proteins. Additionally, yeast enolases, alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and heat shock proteins were prioritized. Eleven antigen candidates were tested for confirmation by ELISAs using the respective proteins separately. Differences in asthmatics vs. healthy horses' serum Ig binding to Der p 1, Der p 18, and three yeast enzymes (enolase, ADH, and PGK) confirmed these as promising antigens of immune responses in SEA. Discussion: Antigens with relevance in SEA were newly identified by immunoproteomics, and yeast antigens were considered for SEA for the first time. Serum IgG3/5 binding to relevant antigens was increased in SEA and is a novel feature that points to increased type-2 responses in SEA but requires confirmation of the corresponding cellular responses.
PXD040930	38163893	ABCB1 overexpression through locus amplification represents an actionable target to combat paclitaxel resistance in pancreatic cancer cells. 	Human Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC), LC-MS/MS	PDAC cell models, Pancreas	BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the deadliest types of cancer and the chemotherapies such as gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel are confronted with intrinsic or acquired resistance. The aim of this study was to investigate mechanisms underlying paclitaxel resistance in PDAC and explore strategies to overcome it. METHODS: Three paclitaxel (PR) and gemcitabine resistant (GR) PDAC models were established. Transcriptomics and proteomics were used to identify conserved mechanisms of drug resistance. Genetic and pharmacological approaches were used to overcome paclitaxel resistance. RESULTS: Upregulation of ABCB1 through locus amplification was identified as a conserved feature unique to PR cells. ABCB1 was not affected in any of the GR models and no cross resistance was observed. The ABCB1 inhibitor verapamil or siRNA-mediated ABCB1 depletion sensitized PR cells to paclitaxel and prevented efflux of ABCB1 substrates in all models. ABCB1 expression was associated with a trend towards shorter survival in patients who had received gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel treatment. A pharmacological screen identified known and novel kinase inhibitors that attenuate efflux of ABCB1 substrates and sensitize PR PDAC cells to paclitaxel. CONCLUSION: Upregulation of ABCB1 through locus amplification represents a novel, conserved mechanism of PDAC paclitaxel resistance. Kinase inhibitors identified in this study can be further (pre) clinically explored as therapeutic strategies to overcome paclitaxel resistance in PDAC.
PXD047832	38164082	Green leaf volatiles co-opt proteins involved in molecular pattern signalling in plant cells. 	Green leaf volatiles co-opt proteins involved in molecular pattern signaling in plant cells	DAMP, MAP kinase (MAPK), green leaf volatiles (GLVs), molecular pattern, pattern recognition receptor, phosphoproteomics, systemin, volatile organic compounds (VOCs)	The green leaf volatiles (GLVs) Z-3-hexen-1-ol (Z3-HOL) and Z-3-hexenyl acetate (Z3-HAC) are airborne infochemicals released from damaged plant tissues that induce defenses and developmental responses in receiver plants, but little is known about their mechanism of action. We found that Z3-HOL and Z3-HAC induce similar but distinctive physiological and signaling responses in tomato seedlings and cell cultures. In seedlings, Z3-HAC showed a stronger root growth inhibition effect than Z3-HOL. In cell cultures, the two GLVs induced distinct changes in MAP kinase (MAPK) activity and proton fluxes as well as rapid and massive changes in the phosphorylation status of proteins within 5 min. Many of these phosphoproteins are involved in reprogramming the proteome from cellular homoeostasis to stress and include pattern recognition receptors, a receptor-like cytoplasmic kinase, MAPK cascade components, calcium signaling proteins and transcriptional regulators. These are well-known components of damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) signaling pathways. These rapid changes in the phosphoproteome may underly the activation of defense and developmental responses to GLVs. Our data provide further evidence that GLVs function like DAMPs and indicate that GLVs coopt DAMP signaling pathways.
PXD045589	38164498	Enrichment of sweat-derived extracellular vesicles of human and bacterial origin for biomarker identification. 	Enrichment of sweat-derived extracellular vesicles of human and bacterial origin for biomarker identification	Extracellular vesicles, alginate, bacteria, sweat	Sweat contains biomarkers for real-time non-invasive health monitoring, but only a few relevant analytes are currently used in clinical practice. In the present study, we investigated whether sweat-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) can be used as a source of potential protein biomarkers of human and bacterial origin. Methods: By using ExoView platform, electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis and Western blotting we characterized EVs in the sweat of eight volunteers performing rigorous exercise. We compared the presence of EV markers as well as general protein composition of total sweat, EV-enriched sweat and sweat samples collected in alginate skin patches. Results: We identified 1209 unique human proteins in EV-enriched sweat, of which approximately 20% were present in every individual sample investigated. Sweat derived EVs shared 846 human proteins (70%) with total sweat, while 368 proteins (30%) were captured by medical grade alginate skin patch and such EVs contained the typical exosome marker CD63. The majority of identified proteins are known to be carried by EVs found in other biofluids, mostly urine. Besides human proteins, EV-enriched sweat samples contained 1594 proteins of bacterial origin. Bacterial protein profiles in EV-enriched sweat were characterized by high interindividual variability, that reflected differences in total sweat composition. Alginate-based sweat patch accumulated only 5% proteins of bacterial origin. Conclusion: We showed that sweat-derived EVs provide a rich source of potential biomarkers of human and bacterial origin. Use of commercially available alginate skin patches selectively enrich for human derived material with very little microbial material collected.
PXD044716	38164767	Co-Analysis of Serum and Urine Differentially Expressed Proteins in Mucopolysaccharidosis Type I. 	Co-analysis of serum and urine differentially expressed proteins in mucopolysaccharidosis type I	Serum, Urine, mucopolysaccharidosis	Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is a lysosomal storage disease caused by the deficiency of the enzyme alpha-l-iduronidase (IDUA), typically leading to devastating secondary pathophysiological cascades. Due to the irreversible nature of the disease's progression, early diagnosis and interventional treatment has become particularly crucial. Considering the fact that serum and urine are the most commonly used specimens in clinical practice for detection, we conducted an analysis to identify the differential protein profile in the serum and urine of MPS I patients using the tandem mass tag (TMT) technique. A total of 182 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were detected in serum, among which 9 showed significant differences as confirmed by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis. The proteins APOA1 and LGFBP3 were downregulated in serum, while the expression levels of ALDOB, CD163, CRTAC1, DPP4, LAMP2, SHBG, and SPP2 exhibited an increase. In further exploratory studies of urinary proteomics, 32 identified DEPs were consistent with the discovered findings in serum tests, specifically displaying a high diagnostic area under the curve (AUC) value. Thus, our study demonstrates the value of serum-urine integrated proteomic analysis in evaluating the clinical course of MPS I and other potential metabolic disorders, shedding light on the importance of early detection and intervention in these conditions.
PXD034400	38165927	Targeting the PHF8/YY1 axis suppresses cancer cell growth through modulation of ROS. 	PHF8 Demethylates YY1 to Regulate ETC Gene and mROS to Promote Cancer Cell Growth	ETC, PHF8, YY1, mROS	High levels of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mROS) are linked to cancer development, which is tightly controlled by the electron transport chain (ETC). However, the epigenetic mechanisms governing ETC gene transcription to drive mROS production and cancer cell growth remain to be fully characterized. Here, we report that protein demethylase PHF8 is overexpressed in many types of cancers, including colon and lung cancer, and is negatively correlated with ETC gene expression. While it is well known to demethylate histones to activate transcription, PHF8 demethylates transcription factor YY1, functioning as a co-repressor for a large set of nuclear-coded ETC genes to drive mROS production and cancer development. In addition to genetically ablating PHF8, pharmacologically targeting PHF8 with a specific chemical inhibitor, iPHF8, is potent in regulating YY1 methylation, ETC gene transcription, mROS production, and cell growth in colon and lung cancer cells. iPHF8 exhibits potency and safety in suppressing tumor growth in cell-line- and patient-derived xenografts in vivo. Our data uncover a key epigenetic mechanism underlying ETC gene transcriptional regulation, demonstrating that targeting the PHF8/YY1 axis has great potential to treat cancers.
PXD038147	38166155	Ultrasound Stimulation of Piezoelectric Nanocomposite Hydrogels Boosts Chondrogenic Differentiation in Vitro, in Both a Normal and Inflammatory Milieu. 	Proteome Analysis of stromal cells embedded in nanocomposite hydrogels stimulated with ultrasound	Adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stromal cells, LIPUS, Osteoarthritis, nanocomposite hydrogel	The use of piezoelectric nanomaterials combined with ultrasound stimulation is emerging as a promising approach for wirelessly triggering the regeneration of different tissue types. However, it has never been explored for boosting chondrogenesis. Furthermore, the ultrasound stimulation parameters used are often not adequately controlled. In this study, we show that adipose-tissue-derived mesenchymal stromal cells embedded in a nanocomposite hydrogel containing piezoelectric barium titanate nanoparticles and graphene oxide nanoflakes and stimulated with ultrasound waves with precisely controlled parameters (1 MHz and 250 mW/cm(2), for 5 min once every 2 days for 10 days) dramatically boost chondrogenic cell commitment in vitro. Moreover, fibrotic and catabolic factors are strongly down-modulated: proteomic analyses reveal that such stimulation influences biological processes involved in cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix organization, collagen fibril organization, and metabolic processes. The optimal stimulation regimen also has a considerable anti-inflammatory effect and keeps its ability to boost chondrogenesis in vitro, even in an inflammatory milieu. An analytical model to predict the voltage generated by piezoelectric nanoparticles invested by ultrasound waves is proposed, together with a computational tool that takes into consideration nanoparticle clustering within the cell vacuoles and predicts the electric field streamline distribution in the cell cytoplasm. The proposed nanocomposite hydrogel shows good injectability and adhesion to the cartilage tissue ex vivo, as well as excellent biocompatibility in vivo, according to ISO 10993. Future perspectives will involve preclinical testing of this paradigm for cartilage regeneration.
PXD044611	38166414	SUMOylation Fine-Tunes Endothelial HEY1 in the Regulation of Angiogenesis. 	SUMOylation fine tunes the transcriptional activity of endothelial HEY1 in the regulation of angiogenesis	HEY1, SUMOylation, angiogenesis, transcription	BACKGROUND: Angiogenesis, which plays a critical role in embryonic development and tissue repair, is controlled by a set of angiogenic signaling pathways. As a TF (transcription factor) belonging to the basic helix-loop-helix family, HEY (hairy/enhancer of split related with YRPW motif)-1 has been identified as a key player in developmental angiogenesis. However, the precise mechanisms underlying HEY1's actions in angiogenesis remain largely unknown. Our previous studies have suggested a potential role for posttranslational SUMOylation in the dynamic regulation of vascular development and organization. METHODS: Immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and bioinformatics analysis were used to determine the biochemical characteristics of HEY1 SUMOylation. The promoter-binding capability of HEY1 was determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation, dual luciferase, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays. The dimerization pattern of HEY1 was determined by coimmunoprecipitation. The angiogenic capabilities of endothelial cells were assessed by CCK-8, 5-ethynyl-2-deoxyuridine staining, wound healing, transwell, and sprouting assays. Embryonic and postnatal vascular growth in mouse tissues, matrigel plug assay, cutaneous wound healing model, oxygen-induced retinopathy model, and tumor angiogenesis model were used to investigate the angiogenesis in vivo. RESULTS: We identified intrinsic endothelial HEY1 SUMOylation at conserved lysines by TRIM28 (tripartite motif containing 28) as the unique E3 ligase. Functionally, SUMOylation facilitated HEY1-mediated suppression of angiogenic RTK (receptor tyrosine kinase) signaling and angiogenesis in primary human endothelial cells and mice with endothelial cell-specific expression of wild-type HEY1 or a SUMOylation-deficient HEY1 mutant. Mechanistically, SUMOylation facilitates HEY1 homodimer formation, which in turn preserves HEY1's DNA-binding capability via recognition of E-box promoter elements. Therefore, SUMOylation maintains HEY1's function as a repressive TF controlling numerous angiogenic genes, including RTKs and Notch pathway components. Proangiogenic stimuli induce HEY1 deSUMOylation, leading to heterodimerization of HEY1 with HES (hairy and enhancer of split)-1, which results in ineffective DNA binding and loss of HEY1's angiogenesis-suppressive activity. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that reversible HEY1 SUMOylation is a molecular mechanism that coordinates endothelial angiogenic signaling and angiogenesis, both in physiological and pathological milieus, by fine-tuning the transcriptional activity of HEY1. Specifically, SUMOylation facilitates the formation of the HEY1 transcriptional complex and enhances its DNA-binding capability in endothelial cells.
PXD041043	38167292	Stabilization of Pin1 by USP34 promotes Ubc9 isomerization and protein sumoylation in glioma stem cells. 	Stabilization of Pin1 by USP34 promotes Ubc9 isomerization and protein sumoylation in glioma stem cells to augment glioblastoma malignancy	LS-MS/MS, Pin1, deubiquitination	The peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase Pin1 is a pivotal therapeutic target in cancers, but the regulation of Pin1 protein stability is largely unknown. High Pin1 expression is associated with SUMO1-modified protein hypersumoylation in glioma stem cells (GSCs), but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here we demonstrate that Pin1 is deubiquitinated and stabilized by USP34, which promotes isomerization of the sole SUMO E2 enzyme Ubc9, leading to SUMO1-modified hypersumoylation to support GSC maintenance. Pin1 interacts with USP34, a deubiquitinase with preferential expression and oncogenic function in GSCs. Such interaction is facilitated by Plk1-mediated phosphorylation of Pin1. Disruption of USP34 or inhibition of Plk1 promotes poly-ubiquitination and degradation of Pin1. Furthermore, Pin1 isomerizes Ubc9 to upregulate Ubc9 thioester formation with SUMO1, which requires CDK1-mediated phosphorylation of Ubc9. Combined inhibition of Pin1 and CDK1 with sulfopin and RO3306 most effectively suppresses orthotopic tumor growth. Our findings provide multiple molecular targets to induce Pin1 degradation and suppress hypersumoylation for cancer treatment.
PXD045002	38167295	Engineering paralog-specific PSD-95 recombinant binders as minimally interfering multimodal probes for advanced imaging techniques. 	PSD-95 interactome in presence and absence of Xph20 intrabody	Intrabody, PSD-95, Synapse	Despite the constant advances in fluorescence imaging techniques, monitoring endogenous proteins still constitutes a major challenge in particular when considering dynamics studies or super-resolution imaging. We have recently evolved specific protein-based binders for PSD-95, the main postsynaptic scaffold proteins at excitatory synapses. Since the synthetic recombinant binders recognize epitopes not directly involved in the target protein activity, we consider them here as tools to develop endogenous PSD-95 imaging probes. After confirming their lack of impact on PSD-95 function, we validated their use as intrabody fluorescent probes. We further engineered the probes and demonstrated their usefulness in different super-resolution imaging modalities (STED, PALM and DNA-PAINT) in both live and fixed neurons. Finally, we exploited the binders to enrich at the synapse genetically encoded calcium reporters. Overall, we demonstrate that these evolved binders constitute a robust and efficient platform to selectively target and monitor endogenous PSD-95 using various fluorescence imaging techniques.
PXD043362	38167409	Overcoming therapeutic resistance in oncolytic herpes virotherapy by targeting IGF2BP3-induced NETosis in malignant glioma. 	Look for FTO ubiquitin proteins	To explore the mechanism of FTO ubiquitination	Oncolytic virotherapy holds promise for cancer treatment, but the factors determining its oncolytic activity remain unclear. Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are associated with cancer progression, yet their formation mechanism and role in oncolytic virotherapy remain elusive. In this study, we demonstrate that, in glioma, upregulation of IGF2BP3 enhances the expression of E3 ubiquitin protein ligase MIB1, promoting FTO degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. This results in increased m6A-mediated CSF3 release and NET formation. Oncolytic herpes simplex virus (oHSV) stimulates IGF2BP3-induced NET formation in malignant glioma. In glioma models in female mice, a BET inhibitor enhances the oncolytic activity of oHSV by impeding IGF2BP3-induced NETosis, reinforcing virus replication through BRD4 recruitment with the CDK9/RPB-1 complex to HSV gene promoters. Our findings unveil the regulation of m6A-mediated NET formation, highlight oncolytic virus-induced NETosis as a critical checkpoint hindering oncolytic potential, and propose targeting NETosis as a strategy to overcome resistance in oncolytic virotherapy.
PXD038334	38167864	ApoL6 associates with lipid droplets and disrupts Perilipin1-HSL interaction to inhibit lipolysis. 	A new LD protein, ApoL6 disrupts the Perilipin 1-HSL interaction to inhibit lipolysis	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), lipolysis, obesity, protein-protein interaction	Adipose tissue stores triacylglycerol (TAG) in lipid droplets (LD) and release fatty acids upon lipolysis during energy shortage. We identify ApoL6 as a LD-associated protein mainly found in adipose tissue, specifically in adipocytes. ApoL6 expression is low during fasting but induced upon feeding. ApoL6 knockdown results in smaller LD with lower TAG content in adipocytes, while ApoL6 overexpression causes larger LD with higher TAG content. We show that the ApoL6 affects adipocytes through inhibition of lipolysis. While ApoL6, Perilipin 1 (Plin1), and HSL can form a complex on LD, C-terminal ApoL6 directly interacts with N-terminal Plin1 to prevent Plin1 binding to HSL, to inhibit lipolysis. Thus, ApoL6 ablation decreases white adipose tissue mass, protecting mice from diet-induced obesity, while ApoL6 overexpression in adipose brings obesity and insulin resistance, making ApoL6 a potential future target against obesity and diabetes.
PXD039316	38167916	DeKinomics pulse-chases kinase functions in living cells. 	DeKinomics pulse-chases kinase functions in living cells	Phosphoproteomics, pTyr proteomics	Cellular context is crucial for understanding the complex and dynamic kinase functions in health and disease. Systematic dissection of kinase-mediated cellular processes requires rapid and precise stimulation ('pulse') of a kinase of interest, as well as global and in-depth characterization ('chase') of the perturbed proteome under living conditions. Here we developed an optogenetic 'pulse-chase' strategy, termed decaging kinase coupled proteomics (DeKinomics), for proteome-wide profiling of kinase-driven phosphorylation at second-timescale in living cells. We took advantage of the 'gain-of-function' feature of DeKinomics to identify direct kinase substrates and further portrayed the global phosphorylation of understudied receptor tyrosine kinases under native cellular settings. DeKinomics offered a general activation-based strategy to study kinase functions with high specificity and temporal resolution under living conditions.
PXD038584	38168103	Synovial microenvironment-influenced mast cells promote the progression of rheumatoid arthritis. 	Synovial microenvironment-influenced mast cells promote the progression of rheumatoid arthritis	RA  Synovial microenvironment  Mast cells  MRGPRX2	Mast cells are phenotypically and functionally heterogeneous, and their state is possibly controlled by local microenvironment. Therefore, specific analyses are needed to understand whether mast cells function as powerful participants or dispensable bystanders in specific diseases. Here, we show that degranulation of mast cells in inflammatory synovial tissues of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is induced via MAS-related G protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2), and the expression of MHC class II and costimulatory molecules on mast cells are upregulated. Collagen-induced arthritis mice treated with a combination of anti-IL-17A and cromolyn sodium, a mast cell membrane stabilizer, show significantly reduced clinical severity and decreased bone erosion. The findings of the present study suggest that synovial microenvironment-influenced mast cells contribute to disease progression and may provide a further mast cell-targeting therapy for RA.
PXD047657	38168437	ProtPipe: A Multifunctional Data Analysis Pipeline for Proteomics and Peptidomics. 	ProtPipe: A Multifunctional Data Analysis Pipeline for Proteomics and Peptidomics	MS, pipline	Mass spectrometry (MS) is a technique widely employed for the identification and characterization of proteins, personalized medicine, systems biology and biomedical applications. By combining MS with different proteomics approaches such as immunopurification MS, immunopeptidomics, and total protein proteomics, researchers can gain insights into protein-protein interactions, immune responses, cellular processes, and disease mechanisms. The application of MS-based proteomics in these areas continues to advance our understanding of protein function, cellular signaling, and complex biological systems. Data analysis for mass spectrometry is a critical process that includes identifying and quantifying proteins and peptides and exploring biological functions for these proteins in downstream analysis. To address the complexities associated with MS data analysis, we developed ProtPipe to streamline and automate the processing and analysis of high-throughput proteomics and peptidomics datasets. The pipeline facilitates data quality control, sample filtering, and normalization, ensuring robust and reliable downstream analysis. ProtPipe provides downstream analysis including identifying differential abundance proteins and peptides, pathway enrichment analysis, protein-protein interaction analysis, and MHC1-peptide binding affinity. ProtPipe generates annotated tables and diagnostic visualizations from statistical postprocessing and computation of fold-changes across pairwise conditions, predefined in an experimental design. ProtPipe is well-documented open-source software and is available at https://github.com/NIH-CARD/ProtPipe , accompanied by a web interface.
PXD020930	38168632	Multiple reaction monitoring assays for large-scale quantitation of proteins from 20 mouse organs and tissues. 	Multiple reaction monitoring assays for large-scale quantitation of proteins from 20 mouse organs and tissues	CPTAC, MRM assay development, Mouse tissue proteomics, molecular phenotyping, proteomic phenotyping, stable isotope-labelled standards	Mouse is the mammalian model of choice to study human health and disease due to its size, ease of breeding and the natural occurrence of conditions mimicking human pathology. Here we design and validate multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (MRM-MS) assays for quantitation of 2118 unique proteins in 20 murine tissues and organs. We provide open access to technical aspects of these assays to enable their implementation in other laboratories, and demonstrate their suitability for proteomic profiling in mice by measuring normal protein abundances in tissues from three mouse strains: C57BL/6NCrl, NOD/SCID, and BALB/cAnNCrl. Sex- and strain-specific differences in protein abundances are identified and described, and the measured values are freely accessible via our MouseQuaPro database: http://mousequapro.proteincentre.com . Together, this large library of quantitative MRM-MS assays established in mice and the measured baseline protein abundances represent an important resource for research involving mouse models.
PXD047458	38168759	RNA sequencing and proteomic profiling reveal alterations by MPTP in chronic stomach mucosal injury in tree shrew Chinese (Tupaia belangeri chinensis). 	RNA sequencing and proteomic profiling reveal alterations by MPTP in chronic stomach mucosal injury in tree shrew Chinese (Tupaia belangeri chinensis)	MPTP, RNA sequencing, chronic stomach mucosal injury, proteomic profiling, tree shrew	1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is a neurotoxin that can cause gastrointestinal ulcers by affecting dopamine levels. Therefore, MPTP has been considered a toxic substance that causes gastric ulcer disease in experimental animals. In this study, tree shrews were used as the animal model of gastric mucosa injury, and MPTP was intraperitoneally injected at a lower MPTP dosage 2 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks, while tree shrews were not injected as the control group. Under the light microscope, local congestion or diffuse bleeding points of gastric mucosa and multiple redness and swelling bleeding symptoms on the inner wall were observed in the treatment group, as well as immune cell infiltration was found in HE staining, but no such phenomenon was observed in the control group. In order to explore the molecular basis of changes in MPTP induced gastric mucosa injury, the transcriptome and proteome data of gastric mucosa were analyzed. We observed significant differences in mRNA and protein expression levels under the influence of MPTP. The changes in mRNA and proteins are related to increased immune infiltration, cellular processes and angiogenesis. More differentially expressed genes play a role in immune function, especially the candidate genes RPL4 and ANXA1 with significant signal and core role. There are also differentially expressed genes that play a role in mucosal injury and shedding, especially candidate genes GAST and DDC with certain signaling and corresponding functions. Understanding the factors and molecular basis that affect the expression of related genes is crucial for coping with Emotionality gastric mucosa injury disease and developing new treatment methods to establish the ability to resist disease.
PXD031163	38170582	TLR-mediated aggresome-like induced structures comprise antimicrobial peptides and attenuate intracellular bacterial survival. 	Identification of novel constituents of ALIS from macrophage lysates (LPS+/-), LC MS/MS	ALIS, LC MS/MS, LPS, Macrophages, RAW264.7	Immune cells employ diverse mechanisms for host defense. Macrophages, in response to TLR activation, assemble aggresome-like induced structures (ALIS). Our group has shown TLR4-signaling transcriptionally upregulates p62/sequestome1, which assembles ALIS. We have demonstrated that TLR4-mediated autophagy is, in fact, selective-autophagy of ALIS. We hypothesize that TLR-mediated autophagy and ALIS contribute to host-defense. Here we show that ALIS are assembled in macrophages upon exposure to different bacteria. These structures are associated with pathogen-containing phagosomes. Importantly, we present evidence of increased bacterial burden, where ALIS assembly is prevented with p62-specific siRNA. We have employed 3D-super-resolution structured illumination microscopy (3D-SR-SIM) and mass-spectrometric (MS) analyses to gain insight into the assembly of ALIS. Ultra-structural analyses of known constituents of ALIS (p62, ubiquitin, LC3) reveal that ALIS are organized structures with distinct patterns of alignment. Furthermore, MS-analyses of ALIS identified, among others, several proteins of known antimicrobial properties. We have validated MS data by testing the association of some of these molecules (Bst2, IFITM2, IFITM3) with ALIS and the phagocytosed-bacteria. We surmise that AMPs enrichment in ALIS leads to their delivery to bacteria-containing phagosomes and restricts the bacteria. Our findings in this paper support hitherto unknown functions of ALIS in host-defense. [Media: see text] [Media: see text] [Media: see text] [Media: see text] [Media: see text].
PXD040970	38170752	HKDC1, a target of TFEB, is essential to maintain both mitochondrial and lysosomal homeostasis, preventing cellular senescence. 	LFQ of mNeonGreen-Trap IP-MS from cells expressing HKDC1-mNeonGreen	HKDC1, LFQ, mNeonGreen-Trap	Mitochondrial and lysosomal functions are intimately linked and are critical for cellular homeostasis, as evidenced by the fact that cellular senescence, aging, and multiple prominent diseases are associated with concomitant dysfunction of both organelles. However, it is not well understood how the two important organelles are regulated. Transcription factor EB (TFEB) is the master regulator of lysosomal function and is also implicated in regulating mitochondrial function; however, the mechanism underlying the maintenance of both organelles remains to be fully elucidated. Here, by comprehensive transcriptome analysis and subsequent chromatin immunoprecipitation-qPCR, we identified hexokinase domain containing 1 (HKDC1), which is known to function in the glycolysis pathway as a direct TFEB target. Moreover, HKDC1 was upregulated in both mitochondrial and lysosomal stress in a TFEB-dependent manner, and its function was critical for the maintenance of both organelles under stress conditions. Mechanistically, the TFEB-HKDC1 axis was essential for PINK1 (PTEN-induced kinase 1)/Parkin-dependent mitophagy via its initial step, PINK1 stabilization. In addition, the functions of HKDC1 and voltage-dependent anion channels, with which HKDC1 interacts, were essential for the clearance of damaged lysosomes and maintaining mitochondria-lysosome contact. Interestingly, HKDC1 regulated mitophagy and lysosomal repair independently of its prospective function in glycolysis. Furthermore, loss function of HKDC1 accelerated DNA damage-induced cellular senescence with the accumulation of hyperfused mitochondria and damaged lysosomes. Our results show that HKDC1, a factor downstream of TFEB, maintains both mitochondrial and lysosomal homeostasis, which is critical to prevent cellular senescence.
PXD046366	38172120	TRIM28-mediated nucleocapsid protein SUMOylation enhances SARS-CoV-2 virulence. 	SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid proetin interactome and SUMOylation	Nucleocapsid protein, SARS-CoV-2, SUMOylation	Viruses, as opportunistic intracellular parasites, hijack the cellular machinery of host cells to support their survival and propagation. Numerous viral proteins are subjected to host-mediated post-translational modifications. Here, we demonstrate that the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein (SARS2-NP) is SUMOylated on the lysine 65 residue, which efficiently mediates SARS2-NP's ability in homo-oligomerization, RNA association, liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS). Thereby the innate antiviral immune response is suppressed robustly. These roles can be achieved through intermolecular association between SUMO conjugation and a newly identified SUMO-interacting motif in SARS2-NP. Importantly, the widespread SARS2-NP R203K mutation gains a novel site of SUMOylation which further increases SARS2-NP's LLPS and immunosuppression. Notably, the SUMO E3 ligase TRIM28 is responsible for catalyzing SARS2-NP SUMOylation. An interfering peptide targeting the TRIM28 and SARS2-NP interaction was screened out to block SARS2-NP SUMOylation and LLPS, and consequently inhibit SARS-CoV-2 replication and rescue innate antiviral immunity. Collectively, these data support SARS2-NP SUMOylation is critical for SARS-CoV-2 virulence, and therefore provide a strategy to antagonize SARS-CoV-2.
PXD040257	38172614	A chaperone-like function of FUS ensures TAZ condensate dynamics and transcriptional activation. 	A chaperone-like function of FUS ensures TAZ condensates dynamics and transcriptional activation	IP-MS, XL-MS	The Hippo pathway has important roles in organ development, tissue homeostasis and tumour growth. Its downstream effector TAZ is a transcriptional coactivator that promotes target gene expression through the formation of biomolecular condensates. However, the mechanisms that regulate the biophysical properties of TAZ condensates to enable Hippo signalling are not well understood. Here using chemical crosslinking combined with an unbiased proteomics approach, we show that FUS associates with TAZ condensates and exerts a chaperone-like effect to maintain their proper liquidity and robust transcriptional activity. Mechanistically, the low complexity sequence domain of FUS targets the coiled-coil domain of TAZ in a phosphorylation-regulated manner, which ensures the liquidity and dynamicity of TAZ condensates. In cells lacking FUS, TAZ condensates transition into gel-like or solid-like assembles with immobilized TAZ, which leads to reduced expression of target genes and inhibition of pro-tumorigenic activity. Thus, our findings identify a chaperone-like function of FUS in Hippo regulation and demonstrate that appropriate biophysical properties of transcriptional condensates are essential for gene activation.
PXD047188	38172678	Quantification of putative ovarian cancer serum protein biomarkers using a multiplexed targeted mass spectrometry assay. 	Detection of candidate ovarian cancer protein biomarkers in sera using a multiplexed targeted mass spectrometry assay	Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM), diagnostic biomarkers, high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC), insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 2 (IBP2), serum	BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy in women, and high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) is the most common subtype. Currently, no clinical test has been approved by the FDA to screen the general population for ovarian cancer. This underscores the critical need for the development of a robust methodology combined with novel technology to detect diagnostic biomarkers for HGSOC in the sera of women. Targeted mass spectrometry (MS) can be used to identify and quantify specific peptides/proteins in complex biological samples with high accuracy, sensitivity, and reproducibility. In this study, we sought to develop and conduct analytical validation of a multiplexed Tier 2 targeted MS parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assay for the relative quantification of 23 putative ovarian cancer protein biomarkers in sera. METHODS: To develop a PRM method for our target peptides in sera, we followed nationally recognized consensus guidelines for validating fit-for-purpose Tier 2 targeted MS assays. The endogenous target peptide concentrations were calculated using the calibration curves in serum for each target peptide. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were analyzed to evaluate the diagnostic performance of the biomarker candidates. RESULTS: We describe an effort to develop and analytically validate a multiplexed Tier 2 targeted PRM MS assay to quantify candidate ovarian cancer protein biomarkers in sera. Among the 64 peptides corresponding to 23 proteins in our PRM assay, 24 peptides corresponding to 16 proteins passed the assay validation acceptability criteria. A total of 6 of these peptides from insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 2 (IBP2), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and TIMP metalloproteinase inhibitor 1 (TIMP1) were quantified in sera from a cohort of 69 patients with early-stage HGSOC, late-stage HGSOC, benign ovarian conditions, and healthy (non-cancer) controls. Confirming the results from previously published studies using orthogonal analytical approaches, IBP2 was identified as a diagnostic biomarker candidate based on its significantly increased abundance in the late-stage HGSOC patient sera compared to the healthy controls and patients with benign ovarian conditions. CONCLUSIONS: A multiplexed targeted PRM MS assay was applied to detect candidate diagnostic biomarkers in HGSOC sera. To evaluate the clinical utility of the IBP2 PRM assay for HGSOC detection, further studies need to be performed using a larger patient cohort.
PXD046492	38173118	Comprehensive Proteomics Analysis Reveals Dynamic Phenotypes of Tumor-Associated Macrophages and Their Precursor Cells in Tumor Progression. 	A Comprehensive Proteomics Analysis Reveals Dynamic Phenotypes of Tumor-associated Macrophages and Their Precursor Cells in Tumor Progression	bone marrow-derived monocyte, tumor progression, tumor-associated macrophages	Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key regulators in tumor progression, but the precise role of bone marrow-derived monocytes (Mons) as TAM precursors and their dynamic phenotypes regulated by the tumor microenvironment (TME) remain unclear. Here, we developed an optimized microproteomics workflow to analyze low-cell-number mouse myeloid cells. We sorted TAMs and their corresponding Mons (1 x 10(5) per sample) from individual melanoma mouse models at both the early and late stages. We established the protein expression profiles for these cells by mass spectrometry. Subsequently, we analyzed the dynamics phenotypes of TAMs and identified a characteristic protein expression profile characterized by upregulated cholesterol metabolism and downregulated immune responses during tumor progression. Moreover, we found the downregulation of both STAT5 and PYCARD expression not only in late-stage TAMs but also in late-stage Mons, indicating a loss of the ability to induce inflammatory responses prior to Mons infiltration into TME. Taken together, our study provides valuable insights into the progression-dependent transitions between TAMs and their precursor cells, as well as the cross-organ communications of tumor and bone marrow.
PXD044469	38174900	Exploring Residue-Level Interactions between the Biofilm-Driving R2ab Protein and Polystyrene Nanoparticles. 	Calculation of methylation of lysine residues of R2ab in the presence of nanoparticles	Lysine methylation, R2ab	In biological systems, proteins can bind to nanoparticles to form a "corona" of adsorbed molecules. The nanoparticle corona is of significant interest because it impacts an organism's response to a nanomaterial. Understanding the corona requires knowledge of protein structure, orientation, and dynamics at the surface. A residue-level mapping of protein behavior on nanoparticle surfaces is needed, but this mapping is difficult to obtain with traditional approaches. Here, we have investigated the interaction between R2ab and polystyrene nanoparticles (PSNPs) at the level of individual residues. R2ab is a bacterial surface protein from Staphylococcus epidermidis and is known to interact strongly with polystyrene, leading to biofilm formation. We have used mass spectrometry after lysine methylation and hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HDX) NMR spectroscopy to understand how the R2ab protein interacts with PSNPs of different sizes. Lysine methylation experiments reveal subtle but statistically significant changes in methylation patterns in the presence of PSNPs, indicating altered protein surface accessibility. HDX rates become slower overall in the presence of PSNPs. However, some regions of the R2ab protein exhibit faster than average exchange rates in the presence of PSNPs, while others are slower than the average behavior, suggesting conformational changes upon binding. HDX rates and methylation ratios support a recently proposed "adsorbotope" model for PSNPs, wherein adsorbed proteins consist of unfolded anchor points interspersed with partially structured regions. Our data also highlight the challenges of characterizing complex protein-nanoparticle interactions using these techniques, such as fast exchange rates. While providing insights into how R2ab adsorbs onto PSNP surfaces, this research emphasizes the need for advanced methods to comprehend residue-level interactions in the nanoparticle corona.
PXD040878	38175757	NEIL1 drives the initiation of colorectal cancer through transcriptional regulation of COL17A1. 	Mass spectrometry analysis for IP with NEIL1 Antibody in CRC DLD-1 cell	Mass spectrometry analysis, NEIL1	Deficiency of DNA repair pathways drives the development of colorectal cancer. However, the role of the base excision repair (BER) pathway in colorectal cancer initiation remains unclear. This study shows that Nei-like DNA glycosylase 1 (NEIL1) is highly expressed in colorectal cancer (CRC) tissues and associated with poorer clinical outcomes. Knocking out neil1 in mice markedly suppresses tumorigenesis and enhances infiltration of CD8(+) T cells in intestinal tumors. Furthermore, NEIL1 directly forms a complex with SATB2/c-Myc to enhance the transcription of COL17A1 and subsequently promotes the production of immunosuppressive cytokines in CRC cells. A NEIL1 peptide suppresses intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc(Min/+) mice, and targeting NEIL1 demonstrates a synergistic suppressive effect on tumor growth when combined with a nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) inhibitor. These results suggest that combined targeting of NEIL1 and NF-kappaB may represent a promising strategy for CRC therapy.
PXD047192	38176315	Flavonoid 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone selectively eliminates senescent cells via activating ferritinophagy. 	Proteomics data of DMC-treated senescent cells	DMC, Ferroptosis, Senescence	Flavonoids are bioactive natural polyphenolic compounds with health benefits, including anti-tumor, anti-inflammatory and anti-aging effects. Our previous studies revealed that a flavonoid 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone (DMC) induced ferroptosis via inhibiting ferrochelatase (FECH). However, the effect of DMC on cellular senescence is unknown. In the present study, we found that DMC treatment selectively eliminated senescent cells, and DMC alone or a combination of DMC and quercetin or dasatinib showed high efficiency in the clearance of senescent cells. We identified FECH was highly expressed in senescent cells compared to non-senescent cells. Mechanistically, we found that DMC inhibited FECH and induced ferritinophagy, which led to an increase of labile iron pool, triggering ferroptosis of senescent cells. Importantly, we found that DMC treatment prevented hair loss, improved motor coordination, and reduced the expression of several senescence-associated secretory phenotype factors (IL-6, IL-1beta, CXCL-10, and MMP12) in the liver of old mice. Collectively, we revealed that, through the induction of ferroptosis, DMC holds the promise as a new senolytics to prevent age-related pathologies.
PXD046139	38177135	Josephin domain containing 2 (JOSD2) promotes lung cancer by inhibiting LKB1 (Liver kinase B1) activity. 	Deubiquitinase JOSD2 promotes non-small cell lung cancer proliferation via deubiquitylation and inactivation of LKB1	JOSD2, K6-linked polyubiquitination, LKB1, deubiquitinases, kinase activity, non-small cell lung cancer	Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) ranks as one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Despite the prominence and effectiveness of kinase-target therapies in NSCLC treatment, these drugs are suitable for and beneficial to a mere ~30% of NSCLC patients. Consequently, the need for novel strategies addressing NSCLC remains pressing. Deubiquitinases (DUBs), a group of diverse enzymes with well-defined catalytic sites that are frequently overactivated in cancers and associated with tumorigenesis and regarded as promising therapeutic targets. Nevertheless, the mechanisms by which DUBs promote NSCLC remain poorly understood. Through a global analysis of the 97 DUBs' contribution to NSCLC survival possibilities using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, we found that high expression of Josephin Domain-containing protein 2 (JOSD2) predicted the poor prognosis of patients. Depletion of JOSD2 significantly impeded NSCLC growth in both cell/patient-derived xenografts in vivo. Mechanically, we found that JOSD2 restricts the kinase activity of LKB1, an important tumor suppressor generally inactivated in NSCLC, by removing K6-linked polyubiquitination, an action vital for maintaining the integrity of the LKB1-STRAD-MO25 complex. Notably, we identified the first small-molecule inhibitor of JOSD2, and observed that its pharmacological inhibition significantly arrested NSCLC proliferation in vitro/in vivo. Our findings highlight the vital role of JOSD2 in hindering LKB1 activity, underscoring the therapeutic potential of targeting JOSD2 in NSCLC, especially in those with inactivated LKB1, and presenting its inhibitors as a promising strategy for NSCLC treatment.
PXD028689	38177672	THEMIS is a substrate and allosteric activator of SHP1, playing dual roles during T cell development. 	THEMIS is a novel substrate and allosteric activator of SHP1, playing dual roles during T cell development	PEPSI, SHP1, THEMIS	THEMIS plays an indispensable role in T cells, but its mechanism of action has remained highly controversial. Using the systematic proximity labeling methodology PEPSI, we identify THEMIS as an uncharacterized substrate for the phosphatase SHP1. Saturated mutagenesis assays and mass spectrometry analysis reveal that phosphorylation of THEMIS at the evolutionally conserved Tyr34 residue is oppositely regulated by SHP1 and the kinase LCK. Similar to THEMIS(-)(/-) mice, THEMIS(Y34F/Y34F) knock-in mice show a significant decrease in CD4 thymocytes and mature CD4 T cells, but display normal thymic development and peripheral homeostasis of CD8 T cells. Mechanistically, the Tyr34 motif in THEMIS, when phosphorylated upon T cell antigen receptor activation, appears to act as an allosteric regulator, binding and stabilizing SHP1 in its active conformation, thus ensuring appropriate negative regulation of T cell antigen receptor signaling. However, cytokine signaling in CD8 T cells fails to elicit THEMIS Tyr34 phosphorylation, indicating both Tyr34 phosphorylation-dependent and phosphorylation-independent roles of THEMIS in controlling T cell maturation and expansion.
PXD043686	38177917	UBXN1 maintains ER proteostasis and represses UPR activation by modulating translation. 	UBXN1 maintains ER proteostasis and represses UPR activation by modulating translation	ER stress, TMT, UBXN, UPR, proteostasis	ER protein homeostasis (proteostasis) is essential for proper folding and maturation of proteins in the secretory pathway. Loss of ER proteostasis can lead to the accumulation of misfolded or aberrant proteins in the ER and triggers the unfolded protein response (UPR). In this study, we find that the p97 adaptor UBXN1 is an important negative regulator of the UPR. Loss of UBXN1 sensitizes cells to ER stress and activates the UPR. This leads to widespread upregulation of the ER stress transcriptional program. Using comparative, quantitative proteomics we show that deletion of UBXN1 results in a significant enrichment of proteins involved in ER-quality control processes including those involved in protein folding and import. Notably, we find that loss of UBXN1 does not perturb p97-dependent ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Our studies indicate that loss of UBXN1 increases translation in both resting and ER-stressed cells. Surprisingly, this process is independent of p97 function. Taken together, our studies have identified a new role for UBXN1 in repressing translation and maintaining ER proteostasis in a p97 independent manner.
PXD035207	38177922	ZSWIM4 regulates embryonic patterning and BMP signaling by promoting nuclear Smad1 degradation. 	ZSWIM4 regulates early embryonic patterning and BMP signaling pathway by promoting nuclear Smad1 degradation	BMP, Smad1, zswim4	The dorsoventral gradient of BMP signaling plays an essential role in embryonic patterning. Zinc Finger SWIM-Type Containing 4 (zswim4) is expressed in the Spemann-Mangold organizer at the onset of Xenopus gastrulation and is then enriched in the developing neuroectoderm at the mid-gastrula stages. Knockdown or knockout of zswim4 causes ventralization. Overexpression of zswim4 decreases, whereas knockdown of zswim4 increases the expression levels of ventrolateral mesoderm marker genes. Mechanistically, ZSWIM4 attenuates the BMP signal by reducing the protein stability of SMAD1 in the nucleus. Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) identifies Elongin B (ELOB) and Elongin C (ELOC) as the interaction partners of ZSWIM4. Accordingly, ZSWIM4 forms a complex with the Cul2-RING ubiquitin ligase and ELOB and ELOC, promoting the ubiquitination and degradation of SMAD1 in the nucleus. Our study identifies a novel mechanism that restricts BMP signaling in the nucleus.
PXD033701	38177949	Proteomic Biomarkers of Intrahepatic Cholestasis of Pregnancy. 	Placental proteome Analysis in women with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy by LC-MS/MS	Placental, intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy	Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) is a pregnancy-specific liver disease, which can lead to adverse fetal outcomes, including preterm labor and intrauterine death. The pathogenesis of ICP is still unclear. We hypothesized that pathological index leads to abnormal placenta changes in ICP. Investigation of these differences in protein expression in parallel profiling is essential to understand the comprehensive pathophysiological mechanism underlying ICP. The present study screened differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) as novel diagnostic markers for ICP. Proteomic profiles of placental tissues from 32 ICP patients and 24 healthy volunteers (controls) were analyzed. Our founding was valid by following western blotting and immunohistochemistry staining, respectively. The association of the key protein expression with clinicopathological features of ICP was further analyzed. A total of 178 DEPs were identified between the ICP and control groups. Functional enrichment analysis showed these proteins were significantly enriched in the PPAR singling pathway by KEGG and PPARalpha/RXRalpha activation by IPA. Apolipoprotein A2 (APOA2) was the only upregulated protein, which uniquely identified in ICP groups and related to both pathways. Validation of western blotting and immunohistochemical staining analysis showed significantly higher APOA2 expression in the ICP group than in the control group. Furthermore, the expression of APOA2 is associated with clinicopathological features in ICP groups. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses showed that the AUC of APOA2 was 0.8984 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.772-1.000). This study has identified up-regulated APOA2 associated with PPAR singling pathway and PPARalpha/RXRalpha activation in ICP. Thus, APOA2 may be involved in ICP pathogenesis, serving as a novel biomarker for its diagnosis.
PXD032334	38179654	Size matters: Functional differences of small extracellular vesicle subpopulations in cardiac repair responses. 	Proteomic characterization of SEC-fractionated sEV subpopulations	CPC, Extracellular vesicles, bottom-up proteomics, size exclusion chromatography	Cardiac progenitor cell (CPC)-derived small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) exhibit great potential to stimulate cardiac repair. However, the multifaceted nature of sEV heterogeneity presents a challenge in understanding the distinct mechanisms underlying their regenerative abilities. Here, a dual-step multimodal flowthrough and size-exclusion chromatography method was applied to isolate and separate CPC-derived sEV subpopulations to study the functional differences related to cardiac repair responses. Three distinct sEV subpopulations were identified with unique protein profiles. Functional cell assays for cardiac repair-related processes demonstrated that the middle-sized and smallest-sized sEV subpopulations exhibited the highest pro-angiogenic and anti-fibrotic activities. Proteasome activity was uniquely seen in the smallest-sized subpopulation. The largest-sized subpopulation showed no effect in any of the functional assays. This research uncovers the existence of sEV subpopulations, each characterized by a distinct composition and biological function. Enhancing our understanding of sEV heterogeneity will provide valuable insights into sEV mechanisms of action, ultimately accelerating the translation of sEV therapeutics.
PXD046001	38179698	Sox9 Accelerates Vascular Ageing by Regulating Extracellular Matrix Composition and Stiffness. 	Sox9 accelerates vascular ageing by regulating extracellular matrix composition and stiffness	Extracellular matrix, Sox9, Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells, senescence	BACKGROUND: Vascular calcification and increased extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffness are hallmarks of vascular aging. Sox9 (SRY-box transcription factor 9) has been implicated in vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) osteo/chondrogenic conversion; however, its relationship with aging and calcification has not been studied. METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was performed on human aortic samples from young and aged patients. Young and senescent primary human VSMCs were induced to produce ECM, and Sox9 expression was manipulated using adenoviral overexpression and depletion. ECM properties were characterized using atomic force microscopy and proteomics, and VSMC phenotype on hydrogels and the ECM were examined using confocal microscopy. RESULTS: In vivo, Sox9 was not spatially associated with vascular calcification but correlated with the senescence marker p16. In vitro Sox9 showed mechanosensitive responses with increased expression and nuclear translocation in senescent cells and on stiff matrices. Sox9 was found to regulate ECM stiffness and organization by orchestrating changes in collagen (Col) expression and reducing VSMC contractility, leading to the formation of an ECM that mirrored that of senescent cells. These ECM changes promoted phenotypic modulation of VSMCs, whereby senescent cells plated on ECM synthesized from cells depleted of Sox9 returned to a proliferative state, while proliferating cells on a matrix produced by Sox9 expressing cells showed reduced proliferation and increased DNA damage, reiterating features of senescent cells. LH3 (procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 3) was identified as an Sox9 target and key regulator of ECM stiffness. LH3 is packaged into extracellular vesicles and Sox9 promotes extracellular vesicle secretion, leading to increased LH3 deposition within the ECM. CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight the crucial role of ECM structure and composition in regulating VSMC phenotype. We identify a positive feedback cycle, whereby cellular senescence and increased ECM stiffening promote Sox9 expression, which, in turn, drives further ECM modifications to further accelerate stiffening and senescence. REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.05.03.539285v2; Unique identifier: XXX.
PXD046252	38179959	Microneme-located VP2 in Eimeria acervulina elicits effective protective immunity against infectious bursal disease virus. 	Transgenic Eimeria acervulina LC-MSMS	Eimeria acervulina, VP2	Using transgenic Eimeria spp. to deliver exogenous antigens is a viable option for developing multivalent live vaccines. Previous research revealed that the location of antigen expression in recombinant Eimeria dictates the magnitude and type of immune responses. In this study, we constructed genetically modified Eimeria acervulina that expressed VP2 protein, a protective antigen from infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV), on the surface or in the microneme of sporozoites. After vaccination, VP2-specific antibody was readily detected in specific pathogen-free chickens receiving transgenic E. acervulina parasites expressing VP2 in microneme, but animals vaccinated with which expressing VP2 on surface failed to produce detectable antibody after two times immunizations. Moreover, the bursal lesion of microneme-located VP2 transgenic E. acervulina immunized chickens was less severe compared with un-immunized animals after IBDV challenge infection. Therefore, genetically modified E. acervulina that express IBDV-derived VP2 in micronemes are effective in inducing specific antibody responses against VP2, while parasites that have VP2 expression on cell surface are not suitable. Thus, the use of Eimeria parasites as vaccine vectors needs to consider the proper targeting of exogenous immunogens. Our results have implications for the design of other vector vaccines.
PXD043890	38180447	High-Abundance Protein-Guided Hybrid Spectral Library for Data-Independent Acquisition Metaproteomics. 	High-Abundance Protein-Guided Hybrid Spectral Library for Data-Independent Acquisition Metaproteomics	data independent acquisition, gut microbiota, metaproteomics	Metaproteomics offers a direct avenue to identify microbial proteins in microbiota, enabling the compositional and functional characterization of microbiota. Due to the complexity and heterogeneity of microbial communities, in-depth and accurate metaproteomics faces tremendous limitations. One challenge in metaproteomics is the construction of a suitable protein sequence database to interpret the highly complex metaproteomic data, especially in the absence of metagenomic sequencing data. Herein, we present a high-abundance protein-guided hybrid spectral library strategy for in-depth data independent acquisition (DIA) metaproteomic analysis (HAPs-hyblibDIA). A dedicated high-abundance protein database of gut microbial species is constructed and used to mine the taxonomic information on microbiota samples. Then, a sample-specific protein sequence database is built based on the taxonomic information using Uniprot protein sequence for subsequent analysis of the DIA data using hybrid spectral library-based DIA analysis. We evaluated the accuracy and sensitivity of the method using synthetic microbial community samples and human gut microbiome samples. It was demonstrated that the strategy can successfully identify taxonomic compositions of microbiota samples and that the peptides identified by HAPs-hyblibDIA overlapped greatly with the peptides identified using a metagenomic sequencing-derived database. At the peptide and species level, our results can serve as a complement to the results obtained using a metagenomic sequencing-derived database. Furthermore, we validated the applicability of the HAPs-hyblibDIA strategy in a cohort of human gut microbiota samples of colorectal cancer patients and controls, highlighting its usability in biomedical research.
PXD046777	38182622	Direct translation of incoming retroviral genomes. 	Direct translation of incoming retroviral genomes	HIV, IP-MS, SILAC	Viruses that carry a positive-sense, single-stranded (+ssRNA) RNA translate their genomes soon after entering the host cell to produce viral proteins, with the exception of retroviruses. A distinguishing feature of retroviruses is reverse transcription, where the +ssRNA genome serves as a template to synthesize a double-stranded DNA copy that subsequently integrates into the host genome. As retroviral RNAs are produced by the host cell transcriptional machinery and are largely indistinguishable from cellular mRNAs, we investigated the potential of incoming retroviral genomes to directly express proteins. Here we show through multiple, complementary methods that retroviral genomes are translated after entry. Our findings challenge the notion that retroviruses require reverse transcription to produce viral proteins. Synthesis of retroviral proteins in the absence of productive infection has significant implications for basic retrovirology, immune responses and gene therapy applications.
PXD039827	38182717	Plasma proteome profiling reveals the therapeutic effects of the PPAR pan-agonist chiglitazar on insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism, and inflammation in type 2 diabetes. 	Plasma proteome profiling reveals the therapeutic effects of the PPAR pan-agonist chiglitazar on insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism, and inflammation in type 2 diabetes	Chiglitazar, DIA-MS, Diabetes, Plasma	Chiglitazar is a novel peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) pan-agonist, which passed phase III clinical trials and was newly approved in China for use as an adjunct to diet and exercise in glycemic control in adult patients with Type 2 Diabetes (T2D). To explore the circulating protein signatures associated with the administration of chiglitazar in T2D patients, we conducted a comparative longitudinal study using plasma proteome profiling. Of the 157 T2D patients included in the study, we administered chiglitazar to a specific group, while the controls were given either placebo or sitagliptin. The plasma proteomes were profiled at baseline and 12 and 24 weeks post-treatment using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS). Our study indicated that 13 proteins were associated with chiglitazar treatment in T2D patients, including 10 up-regulated proteins (SHBG, TF, APOA2, APOD, GSN, MBL2, CFD, PGLYRP2, A2M, and APOA1) and 3 down-regulated proteins (PRG4, FETUB, and C2) after treatment, which were implicated in the regulation of insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism, and inflammation response. Our study provides insight into the response of chiglitazar treatment from a proteome perspective and demonstrates the multi-faceted effects of chiglitazar in T2D patients, which will help the clinical application of chiglitazar and further study of its action mechanism.
PXD041364	38183097	Splenic proteome profiling in response to Marek's disease virus strain GX0101 infection. 	Proteome analysis of splenic responses to Marek's disease virus strain GX0101 infection	splenic responses Proteome	Marek's disease virus (MDV) strain GX0101 was the first reported field strain of recombinant gallid herpesvirus type 2 (GaHV-2). However, the splenic proteome of MDV-infected chickens remains unclear. In this study, a total of 28 1-day-old SPF chickens were intraperitoneally injected with chicken embryo fibroblast (CEF) containing 2000 PFU GX0101. Additionally, a control group, consisting of four one-day-old SPF chickens, received intraperitoneal equal doses of CEF. Blood and various tissue samples were collected at different intervals (7, 14, 21, 30, 45, 60, and 90 days post-infection; dpi) for histopathological, real-time PCR, and label-free quantitative analyses. The results showed that the serum expressions of MDV-related genes, meq and gB, peaked at 45 dpi. The heart, liver, and spleen were dissected at 30 and 45 dpi, and their hematoxylin-eosin staining indicated that virus infection compromised the normal organizational structure at 45 dpi. Particularly, the spleen structure was severely damaged, and the lymphocytes in the white medulla were significantly reduced. Furthermore, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and label-free techniques were used to analyze the difference in splenic proteome profiles of the experimental and control groups at 30 and 45 dpi. Proteomic analysis identified 1660 and 1244 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) at 30 and 40 dpi, respectively, compared with the uninfected spleen tissues. According to GO analysis, these DEPs were involved in processes such as organelle organization, cellular component biogenesis, cellular component assembly, anion binding, small molecule binding, metal ion binding, cation binding, cytosol, nuclear part, etc. Additionally, KEGG analysis indicated that the following pathways were linked to MDV-induced inflammation, apoptosis, and tumor: Wnt, Hippo, AMPK, cAMP, Notch, TGF-beta, PI3K-Akt, Rap1, Ras, Calcium, NF-kappaB, PPAR, cGMP-PKG, Apoptosis, VEGF, mTOR, FoxO, TNF, JAK-STAT, MAPK, Prion disease, T cell receptor, and B cell receptor. We finally screened 674 DEPs that were linked to MDV infection in spleen tissue. This study improves our understanding of the MDV response mechanism in the spleen.
PXD040146	38183102	Enhanced protein secretion in reduced genome strains of Streptomyces lividans. 	Enhanced protein secretion in reduced genome strains of Streptomyces lividans	Reduced genome strains, heterologous secretion, secretome, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: S. lividans TK24 is a popular host for the production of small molecules and the secretion of heterologous protein. Within its large genome, twenty-nine non-essential clusters direct the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites. We had previously constructed ten chassis strains, carrying deletions in various combinations of specialized metabolites biosynthetic clusters, such as those of the blue actinorhodin (act), the calcium-dependent antibiotic (cda), the undecylprodigiosin (red), the coelimycin A (cpk) and the melanin (mel) clusters, as well as the genes hrdD, encoding a non-essential sigma factor, and matAB, a locus affecting mycelial aggregation. Genome reduction was aimed at reducing carbon flow toward specialized metabolite biosynthesis to optimize the production of secreted heterologous protein. RESULTS: Two of these S. lividans TK24 derived chassis strains showed ~ 15% reduction in biomass yield, 2-fold increase of their total native secretome mass yield and enhanced abundance of several secreted proteins compared to the parental strain. RNAseq and proteomic analysis of the secretome suggested that genome reduction led to cell wall and oxidative stresses and was accompanied by the up-regulation of secretory chaperones and of secDF, a Sec-pathway component. Interestingly, the amount of the secreted heterologous proteins mRFP and mTNFalpha, by one of these strains, was 12 and 70% higher, respectively, than that secreted by the parental strain. CONCLUSION: The current study described a strategy to construct chassis strains with enhanced secretory abilities and proposed a model linking the deletion of specialized metabolite biosynthetic clusters to improved production of secreted heterologous proteins.
PXD040855	38183651	The paracaspase MALT1 controls cholesterol homeostasis in glioblastoma stem-like cells through lysosome proteome shaping. 	MALT1 paracaspase controls cholesterol homeostasis in glioblastoma stem-like cells through lysosome proteome shaping	Cholesterol, Glioblastoma, LysoIP, Lysosomes, MALT1, Niemann-Pick type C1, SREBP2	Glioblastoma stem-like cells (GSCs) compose a tumor-initiating and -propagating population remarkably vulnerable to variation in the stability and integrity of the lysosomal compartment. Previous work has shown that the expression and activity of the paracaspase MALT1 control GSC viability via lysosome abundance. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. By combining RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) with proteome-wide label-free quantification, we now report that MALT1 repression in patient-derived GSCs alters the homeostasis of cholesterol, which accumulates in late endosomes (LEs)-lysosomes. This failure in cholesterol supply culminates in cell death and autophagy defects, which can be partially reverted by providing exogenous membrane-permeable cholesterol to GSCs. From a molecular standpoint, a targeted lysosome proteome analysis unraveled that Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) lysosomal cholesterol transporters are diluted when MALT1 is impaired. Accordingly, we found that NPC1/2 inhibition and silencing partially mirror MALT1 loss-of-function phenotypes. This supports the notion that GSC fitness relies on lysosomal cholesterol homeostasis.
PXD042799	38183652	TDP-43-stratified single-cell proteomics of postmortem human spinal motor neurons reveals protein dynamics in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	TDP-43-stratified single-cell proteomic profiling of postmortem human spinal motor neurons reveals protein dynamics in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	LMD), TDP-43 proteinopathy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), laser capture microdissection (LCM, motor neurone disease, nanoPOTS, retromer complex, single cell proteomics, stathmin 2 (STMN2)	A limitation of conventional bulk-tissue proteome studies in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the confounding of motor neuron (MN) signals by admixed non-MN proteins. Here, we leverage laser capture microdissection and nanoPOTS single-cell mass spectrometry-based proteomics to query changes in protein expression in single MNs from postmortem ALS and control tissues. In a follow-up analysis, we examine the impact of stratification of MNs based on cytoplasmic transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43)+ inclusion pathology on the profiles of 2,238 proteins. We report extensive overlap in differentially abundant proteins identified in ALS MNs with or without overt TDP-43 pathology, suggesting early and sustained dysregulation of cellular respiration, mRNA splicing, translation, and vesicular transport in ALS. Together, these data provide insights into proteome-level changes associated with TDP-43 proteinopathy and begin to demonstrate the utility of pathology-stratified trace sample proteomics for understanding single-cell protein dynamics in human neurologic diseases.
PXD041877	38184746	sigma(E) of Streptomyces coelicolor can function both as a direct activator or repressor of transcription. 	Sigma E of Streptomyces coelicolor can function both as a direct activator or repressor of transcription	SigmaE, bacterial transcriptional apparatus	sigma factors are considered as positive regulators of gene expression. Here we reveal the opposite, inhibitory role of these proteins. We used a combination of molecular biology methods and computational modeling to analyze the regulatory activity of the extracytoplasmic sigma(E) factor from Streptomyces coelicolor. The direct activator/repressor function of sigma(E) was then explored by experimental analysis of selected promoter regions in vivo. Additionally, the sigma(E) interactome was defined. Taken together, the results characterize sigma(E), its regulation, regulon, and suggest its direct inhibitory function (as a repressor) in gene expression, a phenomenon that may be common also to other sigma factors and organisms.
PXD047481	38184853	COP9 signalosome-mediated deneddylation of CULLIN1 is necessary for SCF(EBF1) assembly in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Mass spec results of CSN-FBP project	CSN-FBP-assembly	Functions of the SKP1-CUL1-F box (SCF) ubiquitin E3 ligases are essential in plants. The F box proteins (FBPs) are substrate receptors that recruit substrates and assemble an active SCF complex, but the regulatory mechanism underlying the FBPs binding to CUL1 to activate the SCF cycle is not fully understood. We show that Arabidopsis csn1-10 is defective in SCF(EBF1)-mediated PIF3 degradation during de-etiolation, due to impaired association of EBF1 with CUL1 in csn1-10. EBF1 preferentially associates with un-neddylated CUL1 that is deficient in csn1-10 and the EBF1-CUL1 binding is rescued by the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924. Furthermore, we identify a subset of FBPs with impaired binding to CUL1 in csn1-10, indicating their assembly to form SCF complexes may depend on COP9 signalosome (CSN)-mediated deneddylation of CUL1. This study reports that a key role of CSN-mediated CULLIN deneddylation is to gate the binding of the FBP-substrate module to CUL1, thus initiating the SCF cycle of substrate ubiquitination.
PXD044107	38185415	Comparative quantitative proteomic analysis of melanoma subtypes, nevus-associated melanoma, and corresponding nevi. 	Comparative quantitative proteomic analysis of melanoma subtypes, nevus-associated melanoma, and corresponding nevi	FFPE, malignant melanoma, melanoma subtypes, microdissection, nevi, nevus-associated melanoma, skin, skin cancer	A substantial part of cutaneous malignant melanomas develops from benign nevi. However, the precise molecular events driving the transformation from benign to malignant melanoma are not well understood. We used laser microdissection and mass spectrometry to analyze the proteomes of melanoma subtypes, including superficial spreading melanomas (SSM, n=17), nodular melanomas (NM, n=17), and acral melanomas (AM, n=15). Furthermore, we compared the proteomes of nevi cells and melanoma cells within the same specimens (nevus-associated melanoma (NAM, n=14)). In total, we quantified 7,935 proteins. Despite the genomic and clinical differences of the melanoma subtypes, our analysis revealed relatively similar proteomes, except for the upregulation of proteins involved in immune activation in NM vs AM. Examining NAM versus nevi, we found 1,725 differentially expressed proteins (FDR < 0.05). Among these proteins were 140 that overlapped with cancer hallmarks, tumor suppressors, and regulators of metabolism and cell cycle. Pathway analysis indicated aberrant activation of the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathways and the Hippo-YAP pathway. Using a classifier, we identified six proteins capable of distinguishing melanoma from nevi samples. Our study represents a comprehensive comparative analysis of the proteome in melanoma subtypes and associated nevi, offering, to our knowledge, previously unreported insights into the biological behavior of these distinct entities.
PXD042753	38187258	Serum multi-omics analysis in hindlimb unloading mice model: Insights into systemic molecular changes and potential diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers. 	Employing Hindlimb Unloading Model for The Identification of Serum Biomarkers Associated with Cardiovascular and Skeletal Muscle Deconditioning.	plasma, recovery, skeletal muscle atrophy	Microgravity, in space travel and prolonged bed rest conditions, induces cardiovascular deconditioning along with skeletal muscle mass loss and weakness. The findings of microgravity research may also aid in the understanding and treatment of human health conditions on Earth such as muscle atrophy, and cardiovascular diseases. Due to the paucity of biomarkers and the unknown underlying mechanisms of cardiovascular and skeletal muscle deconditioning in these environments, there are insufficient diagnostic and preventative measures. In this study, we employed hindlimb unloading (HU) mouse model, which mimics astronauts in space and bedridden patients, to first evaluate cardiovascular and skeletal muscle function, followed by proteomics and metabolomics LC-MS/MS-based analysis using serum samples. Three weeks of unloading caused changes in the function of the cardiovascular system in c57/Bl6 mice, as seen by a decrease in mean arterial pressure and heart weight. Unloading for three weeks also changed skeletal muscle function, causing a loss in grip strength in HU mice and atrophy of skeletal muscle indicated by a reduction in muscle mass. These modifications were partially reversed by a two-week recovery period of reloading condition, emphasizing the significance of the recovery process. Proteomics analysis revealed 12 dysregulated proteins among the groups, such as phospholipid transfer protein, Carbonic anhydrase 3, Parvalbumin alpha, Major urinary protein 20 (Mup20), Thrombospondin-1, and Apolipoprotein C-IV. On the other hand, metabolomics analysis showed altered metabolites among the groups such as inosine, hypoxanthine, xanthosine, sphinganine, l-valine, 3,4-Dihydroxyphenylglycol, and l-Glutamic acid. The joint data analysis revealed that HU conditions mainly impacted pathways such as ABC transporters, complement and coagulation cascades, nitrogen metabolism, and purine metabolism. Overall, our results indicate that microgravity environment induces significant alterations in the function, proteins, and metabolites of these mice. These observations suggest the potential utilization of these proteins and metabolites as novel biomarkers for assessing and mitigating cardiovascular and skeletal muscle deconditioning associated with such conditions.
PXD048713	38187586	Galectin-3-binding protein inhibits extracellular heparan 6- O -endosulfatse Sulf-2. 	Galectin-3-binding protein inhibits extracellular heparan 6-O-endosulfatse Sulf-2 	IP-MS, LG3BP mAb, Sulf-2 mAb	Human extracellular 6- O -endosulfatases Sulf-1 and Sulf-2 are the only enzymes that post-synthetically alter the 6- O sulfation of heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPG), which regulates interactions of HSPG with many proteins. Oncogenicity of Sulf-2 in different cancers has been documented and we have shown that Sulf-2 is associated with poor survival outcomes in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). In spite of its importance, limited information is available on direct protein-protein interactions of the Sulf-2 protein in the tumor microenvironment. In this study, we used monoclonal antibody (mAb) affinity purification and mass spectrometry to identify galectin-3-binding protein (LG3BP) as a highly specific binding partner of Sulf-2 in the secretome of HNSCC cell lines. We validated their direct interaction in vitro using recombinant proteins and have shown that the chondroitin sulfate (CS) covalently bound to the Sulf-2 influences the binding to LG3BP. We confirmed importance of the CS chain for the interaction by generating a mutant Sulf-2 protein that lacks the CS. Importantly, we have shown that the LG3BP inhibits Sulf-2 activity in vitro in a concentration dependent manner. As a consequence, the addition of LG3BP to a spheroid cell culture inhibited invasion of the HNSCC cells into Matrigel. Thus, Sulf-2 interaction with LG3BP has functional relevance, and may regulate physiological activity of the Sulf-2 enzyme as well as its activity in the tumor microenvironment.
PXD056704	38187674	Covalent Targeting of Splicing in T Cells. 	Covalent Targeting of Splicing in T Cells.	SF3B1, T cells, chemical proteomics, splicing	Despite significant interest in therapeutic targeting of splicing, few chemical probes are available for the proteins involved in splicing. Here, we show that elaborated stereoisomeric acrylamide chemical probe EV96 and its analogues lead to a selective T cell state-dependent loss of interleukin 2-inducible T cell kinase (ITK) by targeting one of the core splicing factors SF3B1. Mechanistic investigations suggest that the state-dependency stems from a combination of differential protein turnover rates and availability of functional mRNA pools that can be depleted due to extensive alternative splicing. We further introduce a comprehensive list of proteins involved in splicing and leverage both cysteine- and protein-directed activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) data with electrophilic scout fragments to demonstrate covalent ligandability for many classes of splicing factors and splicing regulators in primary human T cells. Taken together, our findings show how chemical perturbation of splicing can lead to immune state-dependent changes in protein expression and provide evidence for the broad potential to target splicing factors with covalent chemistry.
PXD040340	38188517	Chromatin target of protein arginine methyltransferases alleviates cerebral ischemia/reperfusion-induced injury by regulating RNA alternative splicing. 	CHTOP interaction proteins in injured mouse brain by MS	CHTOP, brain, ischemia	RNA splicing is a post-transcriptional event that regulates many physiological and pathological events. However, whether RNA splicing regulates cerebral I/R-induced brain injury remains largely unknown. In this study, we found that the chromatin target of Prmts (CHTOP) was highly expressed in neurons, and anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL-10) upregulates its expression after ischemia. In addition, overexpression or knockdown of CHTOP alleviated or exacerbated neuronal death in both experimental stroke mice and cultured neurons. Mechanistically, RNA alternative splicing is altered early after oxygen and glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R). CHTOP interacted with nuclear speckle-related proteins to regulate alternative mRNA splicing of neuronal survival-related genes after OGD/R. In addition, I/R injury-induced cytokines IL-10 regulate CHTOP-mediated RNA splicing to alleviate ischemic brain injury. Taken together, this study reveals the alteration of RNA splicing after OGD/R and identifies the IL-10-CHTOP-RNA splicing axis as a modulator of brain injury, which may be promising therapeutic targets for ischemic stroke.
PXD044840	38188970	Effects of canagliflozin on myocardial microvascular density, oxidative stress, and proteomic profile(*). 	Canagliflozin Porcine Nonischemic Myocardium Raw Proteomics Data	Canagliflozin, Chronic Ischemic, Myocardium	Introduction: Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) are cardioprotective, and canagliflozin (CANA), an SGLT2i, has been shown to improve perfusion, AMPK signaling, and oxidative stress in chronically ischemic myocardium. The aim of this study is to determine the effects of CANA in nonischemic myocardium on coronary collateralization, oxidative stress, and other molecular pathways determined by proteomic profiling. Methods: Yorkshire swine underwent placement of an ameroid constrictor to the left circumflex artery. Two weeks later, pigs received no drug (CON, n = 8) or 300 mg CANA daily (n = 8). Treatment continued for five weeks, followed by tissue harvest of nonischemic myocardium. Results: CANA was associated with decreased capillary density (p = 0.05) compared to CON, without changes in arteriolar density. Reduced capillary density did not correlate with reduced perfusion. Oxidative stress was reduced with CANA (22 % decrease). In the CANA group, there was a trend towards increased p-eNOS and eNOS, without a change in p-eNOS/eNOS ratio, p-Akt, Akt, and p-Akt/Akt ratio. There was no change in p-ERK1/2, but a decrease in total ERK1/2 and increase in p-ERK1/2/ERK1/2 ratio. There were no changes in expression of p-AMPK, AMPK, with a trend towards increased ratio of p-AMPK/AMPK. Proteomics analysis identified 2819 common proteins, of which 120 were upregulated and 425 were downregulated with CANA. Pathway analysis demonstrated wide regulation of metabolic proteins. Conclusions: The effects of CANA on myocardial perfusion and AMPK signaling in chronically ischemic myocardium are not found in nonischemic territory, despite attenuation of oxidative stress. Metabolic proteins are widely regulated in nonischemic myocardium with CANA.
PXD041657	38189455	Conformational heterogeneity of the BTK PHTH domain drives multiple regulatory states. 	Conformational heterogeneity of the BTK PHTH domain drives multiple regulatory states	BTK, HDX-MS, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry	Full-length Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) has been refractory to structural analysis. The nearest full-length structure of BTK to date consists of the autoinhibited SH3-SH2-kinase core. Precisely how the BTK N-terminal domains (the Pleckstrin homology/Tec homology [PHTH] domain and proline-rich regions [PRR] contain linker) contribute to BTK regulation remains unclear. We have produced crystals of full-length BTK for the first time but despite efforts to stabilize the autoinhibited state, the diffraction data still reveal only the SH3-SH2-kinase core with no electron density visible for the PHTH-PRR segment. Cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) data of full-length BTK, on the other hand, provide the first view of the PHTH domain within full-length BTK. CryoEM reconstructions support conformational heterogeneity in the PHTH-PRR region wherein the globular PHTH domain adopts a range of states arrayed around the autoinhibited SH3-SH2-kinase core. On the way to activation, disassembly of the SH3-SH2-kinase core opens a new autoinhibitory site on the kinase domain for PHTH domain binding that is ultimately released upon interaction of PHTH with phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate. Membrane-induced dimerization activates BTK and we present here a crystal structure of an activation loop swapped BTK kinase domain dimer that likely represents the conformational state leading to trans-autophosphorylation. Together, these data provide the first structural elucidation of full-length BTK and allow a deeper understanding of allosteric control over the BTK kinase domain during distinct stages of activation.
PXD043264	38190850	UV-ARTP compound mutagenesis breeding improves macrolactins production of Bacillus siamensis and reveals metabolism changes by proteomic. 	UVARTP compound mutagenesis breeding improves macrolactin production of Bacillus siamensis and reveals metabolism changes by proteomic	ARTP mutagenesis, Bacillus siamensis, Macrolactin, Parallel reaction monitoring, UV mutagenesis	Macrolactins are a type of compound with complex macrolide structure which mainly be obtained through microbiological fermentation now. They have excellent antifungal, antibacterial and antitumor activity. In order to improve macrolactins production, Bacillus siamensis YB304 was used as the research object, and a mutant Mut-K53 with stable genetic characters was selected by UV-ARTP compound mutagenesis. The yield of macrolactins was 156.46mg/L, 3.95 times higher than original strain. The metabolic pathway changes and regulatory mechanism of macrolactins were analyzed by quantitative proteomics combined with parallel reaction monitoring. This study revealed that 1794 proteins were extracted from strain YB304 and strain Mut-K53, most of them were related to metabolism. After UV-ARTP compound mutagenesis treatment, the expression of 628 proteins were significantly changed, of which 299 proteins were significantly up-regulated. KEGG pathway analysis showed that differentially expression proteins mainly distributed in biological process, cellular component, and molecular function processing pathways. Such as utilization of carbon sources, glycolysis pathway, and amino acid metabolism pathway. Furthermore, key precursor substances such as acyl-CoA and amino acids of macrolactin biosynthesis are mostly up-regulated, which are one of the main reasons for increased production of macrolactin.This study will provide a new way to increase the yield of macrolactins through mutagenesis breeding and proteomics.
PXD037551	38191367	Novel cellular systems unveil mucosal melanoma initiating cells and a role for PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway in mucosal melanoma fitness. 	Novel cellular systems unveil mucosal melanoma initiating cells and a role for PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway in mucosal melanoma fitness	cancer cell lines, cell line-derived xenografts, melanosomes, mucosal melanomas, pre-clinical models	BACKGROUND: Mucosal Melanomas (MM) are highly aggressive neoplasms arising from mucosal melanocytes. Current treatments offer a limited survival benefit for patients with advanced MM; moreover, the lack of pre-clinical cellular systems has significantly limited the understanding of their immunobiology. METHODS: Five novel cell lines were obtained from patient-derived biopsies of MM arising in the sino-nasal mucosa and designated as SN-MM1-5. The morphology, ultrastructure and melanocytic identity of SN-MM cell lines were validated by transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Moreover, in vivo tumorigenicity of SN-MM1-5 was tested by subcutaneous injection in NOD/SCID mice. Molecular characterization of SN-MM cell lines was performed by a mass-spectrometry proteomic approach, and their sensitivity to PI3K chemical inhibitor LY294002 was validated by Akt activation, measured by pAkt(Ser473) and pAkt(Thr308) in immunoblots, and MTS assay. RESULTS: This study reports the validation and functional characterization of five newly generated SN-MM cell lines. Compared to the normal counterpart, the proteomic profile of SN-MM is consistent with transformed melanocytes showing a heterogeneous degree of melanocytic differentiation and activation of cancer-related pathways. All SN-MM cell lines resulted tumorigenic in vivo and display recurrent structural variants according to aCGH analysis. Of relevance, the microscopic analysis of the corresponding xenotransplants allowed the identification of clusters of MITF-/CDH1-/CDH2 + /ZEB1 + /CD271 + cells, supporting the existence of melanoma-initiating cells also in MM, as confirmed in clinical samples. In vitro, SN-MM cell lines were sensitive to cisplatin, but not to temozolomide. Moreover, the proteomic analysis of SN-MM cell lines revealed that RICTOR, a subunit of mTORC2 complex, is the most significantly activated upstream regulator, suggesting a relevant role for the PI3K-Akt-mTOR pathway in these neoplasms. Consistently, phosphorylation of NDRG1 and Akt activation was observed in SN-MM, the latter being constitutive and sustained by PTEN loss in SN-MM2 and SN-MM3. The cell viability impairment induced by LY294002 confirmed a functional role for the PI3K-Akt-mTOR pathway in SN-MM cell lines. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, these novel and unique cellular systems represent relevant experimental tools for a better understanding of the biology of these neoplasms and, as an extension, to MM from other sites.
PXD033626	38193728	Casein kinase 2 complex: a central regulator of multiple pathobiological signaling pathways in Cryptococcus neoformans. 	Global proteomic analysis in  Cryptococcus neoformans	CK2, Casein Kinase 2 Comple, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stress Responses, novel antifungal drug	IMPORTANCE: The casein kinase 2 (CK2) complex, crucial for eukaryotic growth, differentiation, and metabolic regulation, presents a promising therapeutic target for various human diseases, including cancer, diabetes, and obesity. Its potential as an antifungal target is further highlighted in this study, which explores CK2's functions in C. neoformans, a key fungal meningitis pathogen. The CK2 complex in C. neoformans, comprising the Cka1 catalytic subunit and Ckb1/2 regulatory subunits, is integral to processes like growth, cell cycle, morphogenesis, stress response, drug resistance, and virulence. Our findings of CK2's role in regulating critical signaling pathways, including Hog1, Mpk1 MAPKs, cAMP/PKA, and calcium/calcineurin, underscore its importance in C. neoformans pathogenicity. This study provides valuable insights into the fungal CK2 complex, reinforcing its potential as a target for novel antifungal drug development and pointing out a promising direction for creating new antifungal agents.
PXD044099	38193757	The oral administration of Lacticaseibacillus casei Shirota alleviates acetaminophen-induced liver injury through accelerated acetaminophen metabolism via the liver-gut axis in mice. 	Liver proteome of Mus musculus	Acetaminophen, Lacticaseibacillus casei Shirota, Mus musculus, liver	IMPORTANCE: Acetaminophen is the most frequently used antipyretic analgesic worldwide. As a result, overdoses easily occur and lead to drug-induced acute liver injury, which quickly progresses to liver failure with a mortality of 60%-80% if not corrected in time. The current emergency treatment for overused acetaminophen needs to be administered within 8 hours to avoid liver injury or even liver failure. Therefore, developing preventive strategies for liver injury during planned acetaminophen medication is particularly important, preferably nonpharmacological methods. Lacticaseibacillus casei Shirota (LcS) is a famous probiotic that has been used for many years. Our study found that LcS significantly alleviated acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury, especially acetaminophen-induced liver injury toward fulminant hepatic failure. Here, we elucidated the function and potential mechanisms of LcS in alleviating acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury, hoping it will provide preventive strategies to people during acetaminophen treatment.
PXD047499	38195637	Doa10/MARCH6 architecture interconnects E3 ligase activity with lipid-binding transmembrane channel to regulate SQLE. 	Doa10/MARCH6 architecture interconnects E3 ligase activity with lipid-binding transmembrane channel to regulate SQLE	Doa10, E3 ubiquitin ligases, MARCH6, SQLE, cryo-EM, membrane proteins, ubiquitylation	Transmembrane E3 ligases play crucial roles in homeostasis. Much protein and organelle quality control, and metabolic regulation, are determined by ER-resident MARCH6 E3 ligases, including Doa10 in yeast. Here, we present Doa10/MARCH6 structural analysis by cryo-EM and AlphaFold predictions, and a structure-based mutagenesis campaign. The majority of Doa10/MARCH6 adopts a unique circular structure within the membrane. This channel is established by a lipid-binding scaffold, and gated by a flexible helical bundle. The ubiquitylation active site is positioned over the channel by connections between the cytosolic E3 ligase RING domain and the membrane-spanning scaffold and gate. Here, by assaying 95 MARCH6 variants for effects on stability of the well-characterized substrate SQLE, which regulates cholesterol levels, we reveal crucial roles of the gated channel and RING domain consistent with AlphaFold-models of substrate-engaged and ubiquitylation complexes. SQLE degradation further depends on connections between the channel and RING domain, and lipid binding sites, revealing how interconnected Doa10/MARCH6 elements could orchestrate metabolic signals, substrate binding, and E3 ligase activity.
PXD043779	38195762	Mitofusin 1 silencing decreases the senescent associated secretory phenotype, promotes immune cell recruitment and delays melanoma tumor growth after chemotherapy. 	Evaluation of the secretome of senescent melanoma cells and the impact of silencing Mfn1 on the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) by shotgun proteomics analysis.	Cellular senescence, Melanoma, Mitofusins, Secretome, Shotgun Proteomics	Cellular senescence is a therapy endpoint in melanoma, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) can affect tumor growth and microenvironment, influencing treatment outcomes. Metabolic interventions can modulate the SASP, and mitochondrial energy metabolism supports resistance to therapy in melanoma. In a previous report we showed that senescence, induced by the DNA methylating agent temozolomide, increased the level of fusion proteins mitofusin 1 and 2 in melanoma, and silencing Mfn1 or Mfn2 expression reduced interleukin-6 secretion by senescent cells. Here we expanded these observations evaluating the secretome of senescent melanoma cells using shotgun proteomics, and explored the impact of silencing Mfn1 on the SASP. A significant increase in proteins reported to reduce the immune response towards the tumor was found in the media of senescent cells. The secretion of several of these immunomodulatory proteins was affected by Mfn1 silencing, among them was galectin-9. In agreement, tumors lacking mitofusin 1 responded better to treatment with the methylating agent dacarbazine, tumor size was reduced and a higher immune cell infiltration was detected in the tumor. Our results highlight mitochondrial dynamic proteins as potential pharmacological targets to modulate the SASP in the context of melanoma treatment.
PXD046452	38195860	Computational prediction and experimental validation identify functionally conserved lncRNAs from zebrafish to human. 	Computational prediction and experimental validation identify functionally conserved lncRNAs from zebrafish to human	RBP, zebrafish	Functional studies of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been hindered by the lack of methods to assess their evolution. Here we present lncRNA Homology Explorer (lncHOME), a computational pipeline that identifies a unique class of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) with conserved genomic locations and patterns of RNA-binding protein (RBP) binding sites (coPARSE-lncRNAs). Remarkably, several hundred human coPARSE-lncRNAs can be evolutionarily traced to zebrafish. Using CRISPR-Cas12a knockout and rescue assays, we found that knocking out many human coPARSE-lncRNAs led to cell proliferation defects, which were subsequently rescued by predicted zebrafish homologs. Knocking down coPARSE-lncRNAs in zebrafish embryos caused severe developmental delays that were rescued by human homologs. Furthermore, we verified that human, mouse and zebrafish coPARSE-lncRNA homologs tend to bind similar RBPs with their conserved functions relying on specific RBP-binding sites. Overall, our study demonstrates a comprehensive approach for studying the functional conservation of lncRNAs and implicates numerous lncRNAs in regulating vertebrate physiology.
PXD044117	38197671	A revised molecular model of ovarian cancer biomarker CA125 (MUC16) enabled by long-read sequencing. 	A revised molecular model of ovarian cancer biomarker CA125 (MUC16) enabled by long-read sequencing	CA125, MUC16, Nanopore sequencing, biomarker, ovarian cancer	The biomarker CA125, a peptide epitope located in several tandem repeats of the mucin MUC16, is the gold standard for monitoring regression and recurrence of high-grade serous ovarian cancer in response to therapy. However, the CA125 epitope along with several structural features of the MUC16 molecule are ill-defined. One central aspect still unresolved is the number of tandem repeats in MUC16 and how many of these repeats contain the CA125 epitope. Studies from the early 2000s assembled short DNA reads to estimate that MUC16 contained 63 repeats. Here, we conduct Nanopore long-read sequencing of MUC16 transcripts from three primary ovarian tumors and established cell lines (OVCAR3, OVCAR5, and Kuramochi) for a more exhaustive and accurate estimation and sequencing of the MUC16 tandem repeats. The consensus sequence derived from these six sources was confirmed by proteomics validation and agrees with recent additions to the NCBI database. We propose a model of MUC16 containing 19-not 63-tandem repeats. Additionally, we predict the structure of the tandem repeat domain using the deep-learning algorithm, AlphaFold. The predicted structure displays an SEA domain and unstructured linker region rich in proline, serine, and threonine residues in all 19 tandem repeats. These studies now pave the way for a detailed characterization of the CA125 epitope. Sequencing and modeling of the MUC16 tandem repeats along with their glycoproteomic characterization, currently underway in our laboratories, will help identify novel epitopes in the MUC16 molecule that improve on the sensitivity and clinical utility of the current CA125 assay.
PXD046359	38198277	Perlecan (HSPG2) promotes structural, contractile, and metabolic development of human cardiomyocytes. 	Comparison of wild type and HSPG2+/-  hiPSC-CMs	HSPG2+/-, hiPSC-CMs	Perlecan (HSPG2), a heparan sulfate proteoglycan similar to agrin, is key for extracellular matrix (ECM) maturation and stabilization. Although crucial for cardiac development, its role remains elusive. We show that perlecan expression increases as cardiomyocytes mature in vivo and during human pluripotent stem cell differentiation to cardiomyocytes (hPSC-CMs). Perlecan-haploinsuffient hPSCs (HSPG2(+/-)) differentiate efficiently, but late-stage CMs have structural, contractile, metabolic, and ECM gene dysregulation. In keeping with this, late-stage HSPG2(+/-) hPSC-CMs have immature features, including reduced alpha-actinin expression and increased glycolytic metabolism and proliferation. Moreover, perlecan-haploinsuffient engineered heart tissues have reduced tissue thickness and force generation. Conversely, hPSC-CMs grown on a perlecan-peptide substrate are enlarged and display increased nucleation, typical of hypertrophic growth. Together, perlecan appears to play the opposite role of agrin, promoting cellular maturation rather than hyperplasia and proliferation. Perlecan signaling is likely mediated via its binding to the dystroglycan complex. Targeting perlecan-dependent signaling may help reverse the phenotypic switch common to heart failure.
PXD047733	38199506	Ion mobility-based enrichment-free N-terminomics analysis reveals novel legumain substrates in murine spleen. 	FAIMS-enabled N-terminomics analysis reveals novel legumain substrates in murine spleen	FAIMS, Legumain, N-terminomics, protease	Aberrant levels of the asparaginyl endopeptidase legumain have been linked to inflammation, neurodegeneration and cancer, yet our understanding of this protease is incomplete. Systematic attempts to identify legumain substrates have been previously confined to in vitro studies, which fail to mirror physiological conditions and obscure biologically relevant cleavage events. Using high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS), we developed a streamlined approach for proteome and N-terminome analyses without the need for N-termini enrichment. Compared to unfractionated proteomic analysis, we demonstrate FAIMS fractionation improves N-termini identification by >2.5 fold, resulting in identification of >2,882 unique N-termini from limited sample amounts. In murine spleens, this approach identifies 6,366 proteins and 2,528 unique N-termini, with 235 cleavage events enriched in wild-type compared to legumain-deficient spleens. Among these, 119 neo-N-termini arose from asparaginyl endopeptidase activities, representing novel putative physiological legumain substrates. The direct cleavage of selected substrates by legumain was confirmed using in vitro assays, providing support for the existence of physiologically relevant extra-lysosomal legumain activity. Combined, these data shed critical light on the functions of legumain and demonstrate the utility of FAIMS as an accessible method to improve depth and quality of N-terminomics studies.
PXD046217	38200310	A lethal mitonuclear incompatibility in complex I of natural hybrids. 	Xiphophorus Hybrid Liver Mitochondria PRM	Fish, allele, complex, liver, mitochondria, prm	The evolution of reproductive barriers is the first step in the formation of new species and can help us understand the diversification of life on Earth. These reproductive barriers often take the form of hybrid incompatibilities, in which alleles derived from two different species no longer interact properly in hybrids(1-3). Theory predicts that hybrid incompatibilities may be more likely to arise at rapidly evolving genes(4-6) and that incompatibilities involving multiple genes should be common(7,8), but there has been sparse empirical data to evaluate these predictions. Here we describe a mitonuclear incompatibility involving three genes whose protein products are in physical contact within respiratory complex I of naturally hybridizing swordtail fish species. Individuals homozygous for mismatched protein combinations do not complete embryonic development or die as juveniles, whereas those heterozygous for the incompatibility have reduced complex I function and unbalanced representation of parental alleles in the mitochondrial proteome. We find that the effects of different genetic interactions on survival are non-additive, highlighting subtle complexity in the genetic architecture of hybrid incompatibilities. Finally, we document the evolutionary history of the genes involved, showing signals of accelerated evolution and evidence that an incompatibility has been transferred between species via hybridization.
PXD042128	38200648	Renal Mitochondrial ATP Transporter Ablation Ameliorates Obesity-Induced Chronic Kidney Disease. 	Mouse Kidney MS - Standas diet WT/ High fat diet WT/ Standard diet ANT2 KO/ High fat diet ANT2 KO	Kidney, MS	BACKGROUND: The impairment in ATP production and transport in renal proximal tubule cells (RPTCs) has been linked to the pathogenesis of obesity-induced chronic kidney disease (CKD). This condition is characterized by kidney dysfunction, inflammation, lipotoxicity, and fibrosis. Here we investigated the role of adenine nucleotide transporter 2 (ANT2), which serves as the primary regulator of cellular ATP content in RPTCs, in the development of obesity-induced CKD. METHODS: We generated RPTC-specific Ant2 knockout (RPTC-Ant2-/-) mice, which were then subjected to a 24-week high-fat diet feeding regimen. We conducted comprehensive assessment of renal morphology, function, and metabolic alterations of these mice. Additionally, we employed large-scale transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics analyses to gain insights into the role of ANT2 in regulating mitochondrial function, RPTC physiology, and overall renal health. RESULTS: Our findings revealed that obese RPTC-Ant2-/- mice displayed preserved renal morphology and function, along with a notable absence of kidney lipotoxicity and fibrosis. The depletion of Ant2 in RPTCs led to a fundamental rewiring of their primary metabolic program. Specifically, these cells shifted from oxidizing fatty acids as their primary energy source to favoring aerobic glycolysis, a phenomenon mediated by the testis-selective Ant4. CONCLUSIONS: We propose a significant role for RPTC-Ant2 in the development of obesity-induced CKD. The nullification of RPTC-Ant2 triggers a cascade of cellular mechanisms, including mitochondrial protection, enhanced RPTC survival, and ultimately the preservation of kidney function. These findings shed new light on the complex metabolic pathways contributing to CKD development and suggest potential therapeutic targets for this condition.
PXD046675	38200898	Integrated 4D Analysis of Intramuscular Fat Deposition: Quantitative Proteomic and Transcriptomic Studies in Wannanhua Pig Longissimus Dorsi Muscle. 	Proteomic analysis of the Longissimus dorsi muscle of Wannanhua pigs	4D-Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis, Longissimus dorsi muscle	Wannanhua (WH) is a pig breed indigenous to Anhui Province, China. This breed has a high intramuscular fat (IMF) content, making it an ideal model for investigating lipid deposition mechanisms in pigs. IMF content is one of the main indicators of meat quality in pigs and is regulated by multiple genes and metabolic pathways. Building upon our prior transcriptomic investigation, the present study focused on the longissimus dorsi muscle tissue of Wannanhua (WH) pigs in the rapid fat-deposition stages (120 and 240 days of age). Employing 4D label-free quantitative proteomic analysis, we identified 106 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) technology was used to verify the DEPs, and the results showed that the 4D label-free results were reliable and valid. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses showed that the DEPs were mainly involved in the skeletal-muscle-associated structural proteins, mitochondria, energy metabolism, and fatty acid metabolism. By integrating transcriptomic data, we identified seven candidate genes including ACADL, ACADM, ANKRD2, MYOZ2, TNNI1, UCHL1, and ART3 that play a regulatory role in fat deposition and muscle development. These findings establish a theoretical foundation for future analyses of lipid deposition traits, contributing to potential enhancements in pig meat quality during breeding and advancing the selection process for Chinese indigenous breeds.
PXD047550	38201218	Brain Region Differences in alpha1- and alpha5-Subunit-Containing GABAA Receptor Proteomes Revealed with Affinity Purification and Blue Native PAGE Proteomics. 	Brain region differences in alpha1 and alpha5 subunit-containing GABAA receptor proteome revealed by affinity purification and Blue Native PAGE proteomics	GABAAR, immunoprecipitation	GABAA receptors are the major inhibitory receptors in the brain. They are hetero-pentamers with a composition of predominantly two alpha, two beta, and one gamma or delta subunit. Of the six alpha subunit genes, the alpha5 subunit displays a limited spatial expression pattern and is known to mediate both phasic and tonic inhibition. In this study, using immunoaffinity-based proteomics, we identified the alpha5 subunit containing receptor complexes in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb. The alpha1-alpha5 interaction was identified in both brain regions, albeit with significantly different stoichiometries. In line with this, reverse IPs using anti-alpha1 antibodies showed the alpha5-alpha1 co-occurrence and validated the quantitative difference. In addition, we showed that the association of Neuroligin 2 with alpha1-containing receptors was much higher in the olfactory bulb than in the hippocampus, which was confirmed using blue native gel electrophoresis and quantitative mass spectrometry. Finally, immunocytochemical staining revealed a co-localization of alpha1 and alpha5 subunits in the post-synaptic puncta in the hippocampus.
PXD045804	38203378	Generation and Characterization of Trastuzumab/Pertuzumab-Resistant HER2-Positive Breast Cancer Cell Lines. 	Identification of strategies to overcome resistance in HER2 positive breast cancer.	Breast cancer, HER2-positive, label-free proteomics., pertuzumab, resistance, targeted therapy, trastuzumab	The combination of trastuzumab and pertuzumab as first-line therapy in patients with HER2-positive breast cancer has shown significant clinical benefits compared to trastuzumab alone. However, despite initial therapeutic success, most patients eventually progress, and tumors develop acquired resistance and invariably relapse. Therefore, there is an urgent need to improve our understanding of the mechanisms governing resistance in order to develop targeted therapeutic strategies with improved efficacy. We generated four novel HER2-positive cell lines via prolonged exposure to trastuzumab and pertuzumab and determined their resistance rates. Long-term resistance was confirmed by a significant increase in the colony-forming capacity of the derived cells. We authenticated the molecular identity of the new lines via both immunohistochemistry for the clinical phenotype and molecular profiling of point mutations. HER2 overexpression was confirmed in all resistant cell lines, and acquisition of resistance to trastuzumab and pertuzumab did not translate into differences in ER, PR, and HER2 receptor expression. In contrast, changes in the expression and activity of other HER family members, particularly HER4, were observed. In the same vein, analyses of the receptor and effector kinase status of different cellular pathways revealed that the MAPK pathway may be involved in the acquisition of resistance to trastuzumab and pertuzumab. Finally, proteomic analysis confirmed a significant change in the abundance patterns of more than 600 proteins with implications in key biological processes, such as ribosome formation, mitochondrial activity, and metabolism, which could be relevant mechanisms in the generation of resistance in HER2-positive breast cancer. We concluded that these resistant BCCLs may be a valuable tool to better understand the mechanisms of acquisition of resistance to trastuzumab and pertuzumab-based anti-HER2 therapy.
PXD043126	38203455	The Mechanism of Hepatic Encephalopathy Induced by Thioacetamide Based on Metabolomics and Proteomics: A Preliminary Study. 	Proteomic study of hepatic encephalopathy model induced by thioacetamide in mice	encephalophathy, thioacetamide	Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a central nervous system dysfunction syndrome caused by acute and chronic liver failure or various portal systemic shunt disorders. HE arises from metabolic disorder and excludes other known types of encephalopathy. HE is a major cause of death in people with liver disease. Early diagnosis and timely treatment are key to improving HE prognosis. Herein, we established a model of HE and performed metabolomics to identify 50 significantly differential metabolites between the HE group and control group. The main metabolic pathways associated with these differential metabolites were the purine metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, aminoacyl tRNA biosynthesis, and glucose metabolism. Through proteomics analysis, we identified 226 significantly differential proteins (52 up-regulated and 174 down-regulated). The main (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) enrichment pathways were the Staphylococcus aureus infection, vitamin digestion and absorption, and complement and coagulation cascades. Through the conjoint analysis of proteomics and metabolomics, the differentially present proteins and metabolites were found to be involved in vitamin digestion and absorption, and ferroptosis pathways. In HE, malondialdehyde was significantly elevated, but glutathione was significantly diminished, and the redox balance was destroyed, thus leading to changes in proteins' levels associated with the ferroptosis pathway. In conclusion, this study preliminarily explored the molecular and metabolic mechanisms underlying HE.
PXD044317	38203551	Comparative Analysis of Differential Cellular Transcriptome and Proteome Regulation by HIV-1 and HIV-2 Pseudovirions in the Early Phase of Infection. 	Comparative analysis of differential cellular genome and proteome regulation by HIV-1 and HIV-2 pseudovirions in the early phase of infection	HIV1, HIV2	In spite of the similar structural and genomic organization of human immunodeficiency viruses type 1 and 2 (HIV-1 and HIV-2), striking differences exist between them in terms of replication dynamics and clinical manifestation of infection. Although the pathomechanism of HIV-1 infection is well characterized, relatively few data are available regarding HIV-2 viral replication and its interaction with host-cell proteins during the early phase of infection. We utilized proteo-transcriptomic analyses to determine differential genome expression and proteomic changes induced by transduction with HIV-1/2 pseudovirions during 8, 12 and 26 h time-points in HEK-293T cells. We show that alteration in the cellular milieu was indeed different between the two pseudovirions. The significantly higher number of genes altered by HIV-2 in the first two time-points suggests a more diverse yet subtle effect on the host cell, preparing the infected cell for integration and latency. On the other hand, GO analysis showed that, while HIV-1 induced cellular oxidative stress and had a greater effect on cellular metabolism, HIV-2 mostly affected genes involved in cell adhesion, extracellular matrix organization or cellular differentiation. Proteomics analysis revealed that HIV-2 significantly downregulated the expression of proteins involved in mRNA processing and translation. Meanwhile, HIV-1 influenced the cellular level of translation initiation factors and chaperones. Our study provides insight into the understudied replication cycle of HIV-2 and enriches our knowledge about the use of HIV-based lentiviral vectors in general.
PXD027626	38205347	Extracellular Matrix Protein-1 as a Mediator of Inflammation-Induced Fibrosis After Myocardial Infarction. 	Extracellular Matrix Protein 1 as a critical mediator of inflammation-to-fibrosis crosstalk in wound healing after myocardial infarction	ECM1, adult human cardiac fibroblast (HuCFb) cell line, cardiac wound healing, extracellular matrix, heart failure (HF)	Irreversible fibrosis is a hallmark of myocardial infarction (MI) and heart failure. Extracellular matrix protein-1 (ECM-1) is up-regulated in these hearts, localized to fibrotic, inflammatory, and perivascular areas. ECM-1 originates predominantly from fibroblasts, macrophages, and pericytes/vascular cells in uninjured human and mouse hearts, and from M1 and M2 macrophages and myofibroblasts after MI. ECM-1 stimulates fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition, up-regulates key fibrotic and inflammatory pathways, and inhibits cardiac fibroblast migration. ECM-1 binds HuCFb cell surface receptor LRP1, and LRP1 inhibition blocks ECM-1 from stimulating fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition, confirming a novel ECM-1-LRP1 fibrotic signaling axis. ECM-1 may represent a novel mechanism facilitating inflammation-fibrosis crosstalk.
PXD021135	38206579	Proteomics Analysis of Knee Subchondral Bone Identifies Differentially Expressed Proteins Associated with Osteoarthritis. 	Activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in subchondral bone osteoblast responced to hypoxia lead to osteoarthritis-like phenotype in articular chondrocyte	Wnt pathway, articular cartilage, hypoixa, osteoarthritis(OA), procoagulation, subchondral bone, beta-catenin	Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent debilitating whole-joint disorder. Currently, a growing number of proteomic studies have been performed to evaluate molecular biomarkers in several tissues from OA patients; however, little is known about the protein profiles in subchondral bone of OA. In this study, proteomic analysis was performed on subchondral bone from patients with OA to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Bioinformatics tools were used to further investigate these DEPs. Thereafter, DEPs were validated in the samples from patients with OA, as well as in bilateral ovariectomy-induced OA (OVX-OA) rats using immunohistochemistry. A comprehensive subchondral bone proteome profile of patients with OA was constructed. Additionally, biological information analysis showed that a majority of DEPs participated in the dysregulation of the complement and coagulation cascades. The validation experiments suggested that SerpinA5, the protein involved in the complement and coagulation cascades, was significantly increased in severely damaged subchondral bone of patients with OA compared to the control group. Furthermore, the increase of SerpinA5 in OVX-OA rats compared to control rats was also confirmed. Our results indicated that the dysregulation of coagulation and complement pathways plays a role in the progression of OA, and it provides a promising therapeutic target of OA.
PXD036359	38207106	Proteomic, Metabolomic, and Fatty Acid Profiling of Small Extracellular Vesicles from Glioblastoma Stem-Like Cells and Their Role in Tumor Heterogeneity. 	Proteomic profiling of glioblastoma stem cells and their small extracellular vesicles	exosomes, glioblastoma, glioblastoma stem cells, small extracellular vesicles, tumor heterogeneity	Glioblastoma is a deadly brain tumor for which there is no cure. The presence of glioblastoma stem-like cells (GSCs) contributes to the heterogeneous nature of the disease and makes developing effective therapies challenging. Glioblastoma cells have been shown to influence their environment by releasing biological nanostructures known as extracellular vesicles (EVs). Here, we investigated the role of GSC-derived nanosized EVs (<200 nm) in glioblastoma heterogeneity, plasticity, and aggressiveness, with a particular focus on their protein, metabolite, and fatty acid content. We showed that conditioned medium and small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) derived from cells of one glioblastoma subtype induced transcriptomic and proteomic changes in cells of another subtype. We found that GSC-derived sEVs are enriched in proteins playing a role in the transmembrane transport of amino acids, carboxylic acids, and organic acids, growth factor binding, and metabolites associated with amino acid, carboxylic acid, and sugar metabolism. This suggests a dual role of GSC-derived sEVs in supplying neighboring GSCs with valuable metabolites and proteins responsible for their transport. Moreover, GSC-derived sEVs were enriched in saturated fatty acids, while their respective cells were high in unsaturated fatty acids, supporting that the loading of biological cargos into sEVs is a highly regulated process and that GSC-derived sEVs could be sources of saturated fatty acids for the maintenance of glioblastoma cell metabolism. Interestingly, sEVs isolated from GSCs of the proneural and mesenchymal subtypes are enriched in specific sets of proteins, metabolites, and fatty acids, suggesting a molecular collaboration between transcriptionally different glioblastoma cells. In summary, this study revealed the complexity of GSC-derived sEVs and unveiled their potential contribution to tumor heterogeneity and critical cellular processes commonly deregulated in glioblastoma.
PXD044775	38212249	Identification of a rare [(G) gamma((A) gammadeltabeta)(0) ] -thalassemia using tandem mass spectrometry. 	Identification of a rare Asian Indian Deletion [Ggamma(Agammadeltabeta)0] Delta-Beta Thalassemia using High Resolution Mass Spectrometry	HPLC, delta beta thalassemia, globin, hemoglobinopathies	Thalassemias are a group of inherited monogenic disorders characterized by defects in the synthesis of one or more of the globin chain subunits of the hemoglobin tetramer. Delta-beta (deltabeta-) thalassemia has large deletions in the beta globin gene cluster involving delta- and beta-globin genes, leading to absent or reduced synthesis of both delta- and beta-globin chains. Here, we used direct globin-chain analysis using tandem mass spectrometry for the diagnosis of deltabeta-thalassemia. Two cases from unrelated families were recruited for the study based on clinical and hematological evaluation. Peptides obtained after trypsin digestion of proteins extracted from red blood cell pellets from two affected individuals and their parents were analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Mass spectrometric analysis revealed a severe reduction in delta, beta, and Agamma globin proteins with increased (G) gamma globin protein in the affected individuals. The diagnosis of (G) gamma((A) gammadeltabeta)(0) -thalassemia in the homozygous state in the affected individuals and in the heterozygous state in the parents was made from our results. The diagnosis was confirmed at the genetic level using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA). Our findings demonstrate the utility of direct globin protein quantitation using LC-MS/MS to quantify individual globin proteins reflecting changes in globin production. This approach can be utilized for accurate and timely diagnosis of hemoglobinopathies, including rare variants, where existing diagnostic methods provide inconclusive results.
PXD040981	38212368	A CYBDOM protein impacts iron homeostasis and primary root growth under phosphate deficiency in Arabidopsis. 	A DOMON domain-cytochrome b561 protein acts as a ferric reductase in iron homeostasis and impacts primary root growth under phosphate deficiency	Calnexin, ER stress, Phosphate homeostasis, root growth	Arabidopsis primary root growth response to phosphate (Pi) deficiency is mainly controlled by changes in apoplastic iron (Fe). Upon Pi deficiency, apoplastic Fe deposition in the root apical meristem activates pathways leading to the arrest of meristem maintenance and inhibition of cell elongation. Here, we report that a member of the uncharacterized cytochrome b561 and DOMON domain (CYBDOM) protein family, named CRR, promotes iron reduction in an ascorbate-dependent manner and controls apoplastic iron deposition. Under low Pi, the crr mutant shows an enhanced reduction of primary root growth associated with increased apoplastic Fe in the root meristem and a reduction in meristematic cell division. Conversely, CRR overexpression abolishes apoplastic Fe deposition rendering primary root growth insensitive to low Pi. The crr single mutant and crr hyp1 double mutant, harboring a null allele in another member of the CYDOM family, shows increased tolerance to high-Fe stress upon germination and seedling growth. Conversely, CRR overexpression is associated with increased uptake and translocation of Fe to the shoot and results in plants highly sensitive to Fe excess. Our results identify a ferric reductase implicated in Fe homeostasis and developmental responses to abiotic stress, and reveal a biological role for CYBDOM proteins in plants.
PXD042175	38213792	A proteomic insight reveals the role of food-associated Lactiplantibacillus plantarum C9O4 in reverting intestinal inflammation. 	Food-associated Lactiplantibacillus plantarum C9O4 reverts inflammation and apoptosis in intestinal epithelial cells: a proteomic insight	Lpb. plantarum C9O4, inflammation pathway, intestinal cells	Nowadays, Western diets and lifestyle lead to an increasing occurrence of chronic gut inflammation that represents an emerging health concern with still a lack of successful therapies. Fermented foods, and their associated lactic acid bacteria, have recently regained popularity for their probiotic potential including the maintenance of gut homeostasis by modulating the immune and inflammatory response. Our study aims to investigate the crosstalk between the food-borne strain Lactiplantibacillus plantarum C9O4 and intestinal epithelial cells in an in vitro inflammation model. Cytokines profile shows the ability of C9O4 to significantly reduce levels of IL-2, IL-5, IL-6, and IFN-gamma. Proteomic functional analysis reveals an immunoregulatory role of C9O4, able to revert the detrimental effects of IFN-gamma through the JAK/STAT pathway in inflamed intestinal cells. These results suggest a promising therapeutic role of fermented food-associated microbes for the management of gastrointestinal inflammatory diseases. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042175.
PXD041937	38213952	Antitumor effects of chemically modified miR-143 lipoplexes in a mouse model of pelvic colorectal cancer via myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate downregulation. 	The proteome analysis of Human colorectal cancer	Protein, miR-143	Replenishing tumor-suppressor miRNAs (TS-miRNAs) is a potential next-generation nucleic acid-based therapeutic approach. Establishing an effective miRNA delivery system is essential to successful TS-miRNA therapy. To overcome vulnerability to RNA nucleases, we previously developed a chemically modified miRNA143-3p (CM-miR-143). In clinical practice, colorectal cancer (CRC) pelvic recurrence is an occasional challenge following curative resection, requiring a novel therapy because reoperative surgery poses a significant burden to the patient. Hence, we considered the use of CM-miR-143 as an alternative treatment. In this study, we used a mouse model bearing pelvic CRC adjacent to the rectum and investigated the anticancer effects of CM-miR-143 lipoplexes formulated from miRNA and a cationic liposome. Compared with commercial synthetic miR-143, CM-miR-143 lipoplexes accumulated heavily in regions of the pelvic CRC tumor where the blood flow was high. As a result, systemic administration of CM-miR-143 lipoplexes improved animal survival by significantly suppressing pelvic CRC tumors and relieving a lethal bowel obstruction caused by rectal compression. Detailed protein analysis revealed that the myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase is a novel target for CM-miR-143 lipoplexes. Our results suggest that CM-miR-143 is a potential next-generation drug candidate in the treatment of CRC pelvic recurrence.
PXD042398	38215345	102-Plex Approach for Accurate and Multiplexed Proteome Quantification. 	102-Plex Approach for Accurate and Multiplexed Proteome Quantification	102-Plex approach, multiplexing, quantitative proteomic analysis	Hyperplexing approaches have been aimed to meet the demand for large-scale proteomic analyses. Currently, the analysis capacity has expanded to up to 54 samples within a single experiment by utilizing different isotopic and isobaric reagent combinations. In this report, we propose a super multiplexed approach to enable the analysis of up to 102 samples in a single experiment, by the combination of our recently developed TAG-TMTpro and TAG-IBT16 labeling. We systematically investigated the identification and quantification performance of the 102-plex approach using the mixtures of E. coli and HeLa peptides. Our results revealed that all labeling series demonstrated accurate and reliable quantification performance. The combination of TAG-IBT16 and TAG-TMTpro approaches expands the multiplexing capacity to 102 plexes, providing a more multiplexed quantification method for even larger-scale proteomic analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD042398.
PXD047547	38215746	The interaction between NLRP1 and oxidized TRX1 involves a transient disulfide bond. 	The interaction between NLRP1 and oxidized TRX1 involves a transient disulfide bond: LC-MS/MS Dataset	LC-MS, NLRP1, TRX1, disulfide	NLRP1 is an innate immune receptor that detects pathogen-associated signals, assembles into a multiprotein structure called an inflammasome, and triggers a proinflammatory form of cell death called pyroptosis. We previously discovered that the oxidized, but not the reduced, form of thioredoxin-1 directly binds to NLRP1 and represses inflammasome formation. However, the molecular basis for NLRP1's selective association with only the oxidized form of TRX1 has not yet been established. Here, we leveraged AlphaFold-Multimer, site-directed mutagenesis, thiol-trapping experiments, and mass spectrometry to reveal that a specific cysteine residue (C427 in humans) on NLRP1 forms a transient disulfide bond with oxidized TRX1. Overall, this work demonstrates how NLRP1 monitors the cellular redox state, further illuminating an unexpected connection between the intracellular redox potential and the innate immune system.
PXD041092	38215749	Response to Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitors in aggressive lymphomas linked to chronic selective autophagy. 	Exceptional Response to BTK Inhibitors in Aggressive Lymphomas Linked to Chronic Selective Autophagy	BTK inhibition, DLBCL, funtional proteogenomics, selective autophagy	Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive, profoundly heterogeneous cancer, presenting a challenge for precision medicine. Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors block B cell receptor (BCR) signaling and are particularly effective in certain molecular subtypes of DLBCL that rely on chronic active BCR signaling to promote oncogenic NF-kappaB. The MCD genetic subtype, which often acquires mutations in the BCR subunit, CD79B, and in the innate immune adapter, MYD88(L265P), typically resists chemotherapy but responds exceptionally to BTK inhibitors. However, the underlying mechanisms of response to BTK inhibitors are poorly understood. Herein, we find a non-canonical form of chronic selective autophagy in MCD DLBCL that targets ubiquitinated MYD88(L265P) for degradation in a TBK1-dependent manner. MCD tumors acquire genetic and epigenetic alterations that attenuate this autophagic tumor suppressive pathway. In contrast, BTK inhibitors promote autophagic degradation of MYD88(L265P), thus explaining their exceptional clinical benefit in MCD DLBCL.
PXD043007	38216754	Basal MET phosphorylation is an indicator of hepatocyte dysregulation in liver disease. 	Increased Basal MET phosphorylation is a Hallmark of Hepatocyte Dysregulation in Liver Disease: Human	Fatty Liver, Liver, Primary Hepatocytes	Chronic liver diseases are worldwide on the rise. Due to the rapidly increasing incidence, in particular in Western countries, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is gaining importance as the disease can develop into hepatocellular carcinoma. Lipid accumulation in hepatocytes has been identified as the characteristic structural change in MASLD development, but molecular mechanisms responsible for disease progression remained unresolved. Here, we uncover in primary hepatocytes from a preclinical model fed with a Western diet (WD) an increased basal MET phosphorylation and a strong downregulation of the PI3K-AKT pathway. Dynamic pathway modeling of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) signal transduction combined with global proteomics identifies that an elevated basal MET phosphorylation rate is the main driver of altered signaling leading to increased proliferation of WD-hepatocytes. Model-adaptation to patient-derived hepatocytes reveal patient-specific variability in basal MET phosphorylation, which correlates with patient outcome after liver surgery. Thus, dysregulated basal MET phosphorylation could be an indicator for the health status of the liver and thereby inform on the risk of a patient to suffer from liver failure after surgery.
PXD026283	38217609	A Homozygous NDUFS6 Variant Associated with Neuropathy and Optic Atrophy. 	Identification of a homozygous SCO2 variant in two siblings strengthens the concept of this gene being causative for early-onset axonal Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy	Protein SCO2 homolog, axonal neuropathy, rare diseases, white blood cell proteomics	BACKGROUND: The NADH dehydrogenase [ubiquinone] iron-sulfur protein 6 (NDUFS6) gene encodes for an accessory subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I). Bi-allelic NDUFS6 variants have been linked with a severe disorder mostly reported as a lethal infantile mitochondrial disease (LMID) or Leigh syndrome (LS). OBJECTIVE: Here, we identified a homozygous variant (c.309 + 5 G >  A) in NDUFS6 in one male patient with axonal neuropathy accompanied by loss of small fibers in skin biopsy and further complicated by optic atrophy and borderline intellectual disability. METHODS: To address the pathogenicity of the variant, biochemical studies (mtDNA copy number quantification, ELISA, Proteomic profiling) of patient-derived leukocytes were performed. RESULTS: The analyses revealed loss of NDUFS6 protein associated with a decrease of three further mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase subunit/assembly proteins (NDUFA12, NDUFS4 and NDUFV1). Mitochondrial copy number is not altered in leukocytes and the mitochondrial biomarker GDF15 is not significantly changed in serum. CONCLUSIONS: Hence, our combined clinical and biochemical data strengthen the concept of NDUFS6 being causative for a very rare form of axonal neuropathy associated with optic atrophy and borderline intellectual disability, and thus expand (i) the molecular genetic landscape of neuropathies and (ii) the clinical spectrum of NDUFS6-associated phenotypes.
PXD043640	38218945	Loss of RND3/RHOE controls entosis through LAMP1 expression in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Loss of Rnd3/RhoE induces entosis in human hepatocellular carcinoma	Cell-in-cell, LAMP-1, RhoA/ROCK, Rnd3, entosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, tumor progression.	Entosis is a process that leads to the formation of cell-in-cell structures commonly found in cancers. Here, we identified entosis in hepatocellular carcinoma and the loss of Rnd3 (also known as RhoE) as an efficient inducer of this mechanism. We characterized the different stages and the molecular regulators of entosis induced after Rnd3 silencing. We demonstrated that this process depends on the RhoA/ROCK pathway, but not on E-cadherin. The proteomic profiling of entotic cells allowed us to identify LAMP1 as a protein upregulated by Rnd3 silencing and implicated not only in the degradation final stage of entosis, but also in the full mechanism. Moreover, we found a positive correlation between the presence of entotic cells and the metastatic potential of tumors in human patient samples. Altogether, these data suggest the involvement of entosis in liver tumor progression and highlight a new perspective for entosis analysis in medicine research as a novel therapeutic target.
PXD045686	38221551	Neddylation is a novel therapeutic target for lupus by regulating double negative T cell homeostasis. 	Targeting neddylation is a novel therapeutic strategy for lupus by reconstructing double negative T cell homeostasis	Apoptosis, Bim, Double negative T cells (DN T cells), Neddylation, Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), Ube2m	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a severe autoimmune disorder, is characterized by systemic inflammatory response, autoantibody accumulation and damage to organs. The dysregulation of double-negative (DN) T cells is considered as a crucial commander during SLE. Neddylation, a significant type of protein post-translational modification (PTM), has been well-proved to regulate T cell-mediated immune response. However, the function of neddylation in SLE is still unknown. Here, we reported that neddylation inactivation with MLN4924, a specific inhibitor of NEDD8-activating enzyme E1 (NAE1), or genetic abrogation of Ube2m in T cells decreased DN T cell accumulation and attenuated murine lupus development. Further investigations revealed that inactivation of neddylation blocked Bim ubiquitination degradation and maintained Bim level in DN T cells, contributing to the apoptosis of the accumulated DN T cells in lupus mice. Then double knockout (KO) lupus-prone mice (Ube2m(-/-)Bim(-/-)lpr) were generated and results showed that loss of Bim reduced Ube2m deficiency-induced apoptosis in DN T cells and reversed the alleviated lupus progression. Our findings identified that neddylation inactivation promoted Bim-mediated DN T cell apoptosis and attenuated lupus progression. Clinically, we also found that in SLE patients, the proportion of DN T cells was raised and their apoptosis was reduced. Moreover, compared to healthy groups, SLE patients exhibited decreased Bim levels and elevated Cullin1 neddylation levels. Meantime, the inhibition of neddylation induced Bim-dependent apoptosis of DN T cells isolated from SLE patients. Altogether, our findings provide the direct evidence about the function of neddylation during lupus, suggesting a promising therapeutic approach for this disease.
PXD016727	38223202	Altered microheterogeneity at several N-glycosylation sites in OPSCC in constant protein expression conditions. 	In-parallel proteomics and glycopeptidomics: Novel diagnostic glycopeptide biomarkers in serum identify patients with early-stage oropharyngeal squamous cell carcioma	OPSCC, glycopeptidomics, head and neck cancer, serum	Protein glycosylation responds sensitively to disease states. It is implicated in every hallmark of cancer and has recently started to be considered as a hallmark itself. Changes in N-glycosylation microheterogeneity are more dramatic than those of protein expression due to the non-template nature of protein glycosylation. This enables their potential use in serum-based diagnostics. Here, we perform glycopeptidomics on serum from patients with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC), compared to controls and comparing between cancers based on etiology (human papilloma virus- positive or negative). Using MS2, we then targeted glycoforms, significantly different between the groups, to identify their glycopeptide compositions. Simultaneously we investigate the same serum proteins, comparing whether N-glycosylation changes reflect protein-level changes. Significant glycoforms were identified from proteins such as alpha-1-antitrypsin (SERPINA1), haptoglobin, and different immunoglobulins. SERPINA1 had glycovariance at 2 N-glycosylation sites, that were up to 35 times more abundant in even early-stage OPSCCs, despite minimal differences between SERPINA1 protein levels between groups. Some identified glycoforms' fold changes (FCs) were in line with serum protein level FCs, others were less abundant in early-stage cancers but with great variance in higher-stage cancers, such as on immunoglobulin heavy constant gamma 2, despite no change in protein levels. Such findings indicate that glycovariant analysis might be more beneficial than proteomic analysis, which is yet to be fruitful in the search for biomarkers. Highly sensitive glycopeptide changes could potentially be used in the future for cancer screening. Additionally, characterizing the glycopeptide changes in OPSCC is valuable in the search for potential therapeutic targets.
PXD044913	38223904	Comparison of the extracellular vesicle proteome between glaucoma and non-glaucoma trabecular meshwork cells. 	Comparison of extracellular vesicle proteome between glaucoma and non-glaucoma trabecular meshwork cells	ete, extracellular vesicles, trabecular meshwork	Introduction: Extracellular matrix (ECM) materials accumulate in the trabecular meshwork (TM) tissue of patients with glaucoma, which is associated with a decrease in aqueous humor outflow and therefore an increase in intraocular pressure. To explore a potential mechanism for ECM regulation in the TM, we purified extracellular vesicles (EVs) from conditioned media of differentiated TM cells in culture isolated from non-glaucomatous and glaucomatous human donor eyes. Methods: EVs were purified using the double cushion ultracentrifugation gradient method. Fractions containing EV markers CD9 and TSG101 were analyzed using nanoparticle tracking analysis to determine their size and concentration. We then determined their proteomic cargo by mass spectrometry and compared protein profiles of EVs between normal and glaucomatous TM cells using PANTHER. Key protein components from EV preparations were validated with Western blotting. Results: Results showed changes in the percentage of ECM proteins associated with EVs from glaucomatous TM cells compared to non-glaucomatous TM cells (5.7% vs 13.1% respectively). Correspondingly, we found that two ECM-related cargo proteins found across all samples, fibronectin and EDIL3 were significantly less abundant in glaucomatous EVs (<0.3 fold change across all groups) compared to non-glaucomatous EVs. Discussion: Overall, these data establish that ECM materials are prominent proteomic cargo in EVs from TM cells, and their binding to EVs is diminished in glaucoma.
PXD043290	38225453	Deep proteomic analysis of obstetric antiphospholipid syndrome by DIA-MS of extracellular vesicle enriched fractions. 	Deep proteomic analysis of circulating large/small extracellular vesicle enriched fraction based on data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry	arge/small extracellular vesicle, data-independent acquisition	Proteins in the plasma/serum mirror an individual's physiology. Circulating extracellular vesicles (EVs) proteins constitute a large portion of the plasma/serum proteome. Thus, deep and unbiased proteomic analysis of circulating plasma/serum extracellular vesicles holds promise for discovering disease biomarkers as well as revealing disease mechanisms. We established a workflow for simple, deep, and reproducible proteome analysis of both serum large and small EVs enriched fractions by ultracentrifugation plus 4D-data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (4D-DIA-MS). In our cohort study of obstetric antiphospholipid syndrome (OAPS), 4270 and 3328 proteins were identified from large and small EVs enriched fractions respectively. Both of them revealed known or new pathways related to OAPS. Increased levels of von Willebrand factor (VWF) and insulin receptor (INSR) were identified as candidate biomarkers, which shed light on hypercoagulability and abnormal insulin signaling in disease progression. Our workflow will significantly promote our understanding of plasma/serum-based disease mechanisms and generate new biomarkers.
PXD046169	38225548	Kinase inhibitor pulldown assay (KiP) for clinical proteomics. 	Kinase Inhibitor Pulldown Assay (KiP) for Clinical Proteomics (SureQuant)	Breast Cancer, IS-PRM, KiP, SureQuant	Protein kinases are frequently dysregulated and/or mutated in cancer and represent essential targets for therapy. Accurate quantification is essential. For breast cancer treatment, the identification and quantification of the protein kinase ERBB2 is critical for therapeutic decisions. While immunohistochemistry (IHC) is the current clinical diagnostic approach, it is only semiquantitative. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics offers quantitative assays that, unlike IHC, can be used to accurately evaluate hundreds of kinases simultaneously. The enrichment of less abundant kinase targets for quantification, along with depletion of interfering proteins, improves sensitivity and thus promotes more effective downstream analyses. Multiple kinase inhibitors were therefore deployed as a capture matrix for kinase inhibitor pulldown (KiP) assays designed to profile the human protein kinome as broadly as possible. Optimized assays were initially evaluated in 16 patient derived xenograft models (PDX) where KiP identified multiple differentially expressed and biologically relevant kinases. From these analyses, an optimized single-shot parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) method was developed to improve quantitative fidelity. The PRM KiP approach was then reapplied to low quantities of proteins typical of yields from core needle biopsies of human cancers. The initial prototype targeting 100 kinases recapitulated intrinsic subtyping of PDX models obtained from comprehensive proteomic and transcriptomic profiling. Luminal and HER2 enriched OCT-frozen patient biopsies subsequently analyzed through KiP-PRM also clustered by subtype. Finally, stable isotope labeled peptide standards were developed to define a prototype clinical method. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD044655 and PXD046169.
PXD038594	38226250	Proteomic analysis reveals LRPAP1 as a key player in the micropapillary pattern metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma. 	Proteomics analysis of different histologic subtypes of lung adenocarcinoma reveals a critical role of LRPAP1 in micropapillarypattern metastasis		Objectives: Lung adenocarcinomas have different prognoses depending on their histological growth patterns. Micropapillary growth within lung adenocarcinoma, particularly metastasis, is related to dismal prognostic outcome. Metastasis accounts for a major factor leading to mortality among lung cancer patients. Understanding the mechanisms underlying early stage metastasis can help develop novel treatments for improving patient survival. Methods: Here, quantitative mass spectrometry was conducted for comparing protein expression profiles among various histological subtypes, including adenocarcinoma in situ, minimally invasive adenocarcinoma, and invasive adenocarcinoma (including acinar and micropapillary [MIP] types). To determine the mechanism of MIP-associated metastasis, we identified a protein that was highly expressed in MIP. The expression of the selected highly expressed MIP protein was verified via immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis and its function was validated by an in vitro migration assay. Results: Proteomic data revealed that low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-associated protein 1 (LRPAP1) was highly expressed in MIP group, which was confirmed by IHC. The co-expressed proteins in this study, PSMD1 and HSP90AB1, have been reported to be highly expressed in different cancers and play an essential role in metastasis. We observed that LRPAP1 promoted lung cancer progression, including metastasis, invasion and proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Conclusion: LRPAP1 is necessary for MIP-associated metastasis and is the candidate novel anti-metastasis therapeutic target.
PXD044447	38226459	Isotopic Depletion Increases the Spatial Resolution of FPOP Top-Down Mass Spectrometry Analysis. 	The Isotopic Depletion Increases the Spatial Resolution of FPOP Top-Down Analysis.	FOXO4, Fast photochemical oxidation of proteins, IRE, Insulin response element, electron-capture dissociation, multiCASI., protein isotope depletion, top-down	Protein radical labeling, like fast photochemical oxidation of proteins (FPOP), coupled to a top-down mass spectrometry (MS) analysis offers an alternative analytical method for probing protein structure or protein interaction with other biomolecules, for instance, proteins and DNA. However, with the increasing mass of studied analytes, the MS/MS spectra become complex and exhibit a low signal-to-noise ratio. Nevertheless, these difficulties may be overcome by protein isotope depletion. Thus, we aimed to use protein isotope depletion to analyze FPOP-oxidized samples by top-down MS analysis. For this purpose, we prepared isotopically natural (IN) and depleted (ID) forms of the FOXO4 DNA binding domain (FOXO4-DBD) and studied the protein-DNA interaction interface with double-stranded DNA, the insulin response element (IRE), after exposing the complex to hydroxyl radicals. As shown by comparing tandem mass spectra of natural and depleted proteins, the ID form increased the signal-to-noise ratio of useful fragment ions, thereby enhancing the sequence coverage by more than 19%. This improvement in the detection of fragment ions enabled us to detect 22 more oxidized residues in the ID samples than in the IN sample. Moreover, less common modifications were detected in the ID sample, including the formation of ketones and lysine carbonylation. Given the higher quality of ID top-down MSMS data set, these results provide more detailed information on the complex formation between transcription factors and DNA-response elements. Therefore, our study highlights the benefits of isotopic depletion for quantitative top-down proteomics. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD044447.
PXD043678	38226771	Magnetic Bead-Based Workflow for Sensitive and Streamlined Cell Surface Proteomics. 	A magnetic bead-based workflow for sensitive and streamlined cell surface proteomics	Cell Surface Capture, LC-MS, N-glycopeptide Enrichment, Plasma Membrane N-glycoprotein, Surfaceomics	Cell surface proteins represent an important class of molecules for therapeutic targeting and cellular phenotyping. However, their enrichment and detection via mass spectrometry-based proteomics remains challenging due to low abundance, post-translational modifications, hydrophobic regions, and processing requirements. To improve their identification, we optimized a Cell-Surface Capture (CSC) workflow that incorporates magnetic bead-based processing. Using this approach, we evaluated labeling conditions (biotin tags and catalysts), enrichment specificity (streptavidin beads), missed cleavages (lysis buffers), nonenzymatic deamidation (digestion and deglycosylation buffers), and data acquisition methods (DDA, DIA, and TMT). Our findings support the use of alkoxyamine-PEG4-biotin plus 5-methoxy-anthranilic acid, SDS/urea-based lysis buffers, single-pot solid-phased-enhanced sample-preparation (SP3), and streptavidin magnetic beads for maximal surfaceome coverage. Notably, with semiautomated processing, sample handling was simplified and between ~600 and 900 cell surface N-glycoproteins were identified from only 25-200 mug of HeLa protein. CSC also revealed significant differences between in vitro monolayer cultures and in vivo tumor xenografts of murine CT26 colon adenocarcinoma samples that may aid in target identification for drug development. Overall, the improved efficiency of the magnetic-based CSC workflow identified both previously reported and novel N-glycosites with less material and high reproducibility that should help advance the field of surfaceomics by providing insight in cellular phenotypes not previously documented.
PXD045667	38227383	Catalytic isoforms of AMP-activated protein kinase differentially regulate IMPDH activity and photoreceptor neuron function. 	Mouse rod photoreceptor Prkaa1 knockout phosphoproteomics	AMPK, Prkaa1, phosphoproteomics, rod photoreceptors	AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) plays a crucial role in maintaining ATP homeostasis in photoreceptor neurons. AMPK is a heterotrimeric protein consisting of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. The independent functions of the two isoforms of the catalytic alpha subunit, PRKAA1 and PRKAA2, are uncharacterized in specialized neurons such as photoreceptors. Here we demonstrate in mice that rod photoreceptors lacking PRKAA2, but not PRKAA1, show altered levels of cGMP, GTP, and ATP, suggesting isoform-specific regulation of photoreceptor metabolism. Furthermore, PRKAA2 deficient mice display visual functional deficits on electroretinography and photoreceptor outer segment structural abnormalities on transmission electron microscopy consistent with neuronal dysfunction, but not neurodegeneration. Phosphoproteomics identified inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) as a molecular driver of PRKAA2-specific photoreceptor dysfunction, and inhibition of IMPDH improved visual function in Prkaa2 rod photoreceptor knockout mice. These findings highlight a novel, therapeutically targetable PRKAA2 isoform-specific function of AMPK in regulating photoreceptor metabolism and function through a previously uncharacterized mechanism affecting IMPDH activity.
PXD036050	38228909	CCDC92 promotes podocyte injury by regulating PA28alpha/ABCA1/cholesterol efflux axis in type 2 diabetic mice. 	The pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease	diabetic kidney disease	Podocyte lipotoxicity mediated by impaired cellular cholesterol efflux plays a crucial role in the development of diabetic kidney disease (DKD), and the identification of potential therapeutic targets that regulate podocyte cholesterol homeostasis has clinical significance. Coiled-coil domain containing 92 (CCDC92) is a novel molecule related to metabolic disorders and insulin resistance. However, whether the expression level of CCDC92 is changed in kidney parenchymal cells and the role of CCDC92 in podocytes remain unclear. In this study, we found that Ccdc92 was significantly induced in glomeruli from type 2 diabetic mice, especially in podocytes. Importantly, upregulation of Ccdc92 in glomeruli was positively correlated with an increased urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) and podocyte loss. Functionally, podocyte-specific deletion of Ccdc92 attenuated proteinuria, glomerular expansion and podocyte injury in mice with DKD. We further demonstrated that Ccdc92 contributed to lipid accumulation by inhibiting cholesterol efflux, finally promoting podocyte injury. Mechanistically, Ccdc92 promoted the degradation of ABCA1 by regulating PA28alpha-mediated proteasome activity and then reduced cholesterol efflux. Thus, our studies indicate that Ccdc92 contributes to podocyte injury by regulating the PA28alpha/ABCA1/cholesterol efflux axis in DKD.
PXD042640	38229082	Patient-specific signaling signatures predict optimal therapeutic combinations for triple negative breast cancer. 	Surprisal Analysis of Patient-Specific Signaling Networks in TNBC	PDX, PaSSS, phosphoproteomics, surprisal analysis, triple negative breast cancer	Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a heterogeneous group of tumors which lack estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and HER2 expression. Targeted therapies have limited success in treating TNBC, thus a strategy enabling effective targeted combinations is an unmet need. To tackle these challenges and discover individualized targeted combination therapies for TNBC, we integrated phosphoproteomic analysis of altered signaling networks with patient-specific signaling signature (PaSSS) analysis using an information-theoretic, thermodynamic-based approach. Using this method on a large number of TNBC patient-derived tumors (PDX), we were able to thoroughly characterize each PDX by computing a patient-specific set of unbalanced signaling processes and assigning a personalized therapy based on them. We discovered that each tumor has an average of two separate processes, and that, consistent with prior research, EGFR is a major core target in at least one of them in half of the tumors analyzed. However, anti-EGFR monotherapies were predicted to be ineffective, thus we developed personalized combination treatments based on PaSSS. These were predicted to induce anti-EGFR responses or to be used to develop an alternative therapy if EGFR was not present.In-vivo experimental validation of the predicted therapy showed that PaSSS predictions were more accurate than other therapies. Thus, we suggest that a detailed identification of molecular imbalances is necessary to tailor therapy for each TNBC. In summary, we propose a new strategy to design personalized therapy for TNBC using pY proteomics and PaSSS analysis. This method can be applied to different cancer types to improve response to the biomarker-based treatment.
PXD018093	38229153	Pancreatic cancer acquires resistance to MAPK pathway inhibition by clonal expansion and adaptive DNA hypermethylation. 	Multi-omics characterization of MEK inhibitor resistant pancreatic cancer based on a genetically engineered mouse model-derived in vitro system	MEK inhibitor resistant, PDAC, mouse model	BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive cancer with poor prognosis. It is marked by extraordinary resistance to conventional therapies including chemotherapy and radiation, as well as to essentially all targeted therapies evaluated so far. More than 90% of PDAC cases harbor an activating KRAS mutation. As the most common KRAS variants in PDAC remain undruggable so far, it seemed promising to inhibit a downstream target in the MAPK pathway such as MEK1/2, but up to now preclinical and clinical evaluation of MEK inhibitors (MEKi) failed due to inherent and acquired resistance mechanisms. To gain insights into molecular changes during the formation of resistance to oncogenic MAPK pathway inhibition, we utilized short-term passaged primary tumor cells from ten PDACs of genetically engineered mice. We followed gain and loss of resistance upon MEKi exposure and withdrawal by longitudinal integrative analysis of whole genome sequencing, whole genome bisulfite sequencing, RNA-sequencing and mass spectrometry data. RESULTS: We found that resistant cell populations under increasing MEKi treatment evolved by the expansion of a single clone but were not a direct consequence of known resistance-conferring mutations. Rather, resistant cells showed adaptive DNA hypermethylation of 209 and hypomethylation of 8 genomic sites, most of which overlap with regulatory elements known to be active in murine PDAC cells. Both DNA methylation changes and MEKi resistance were transient and reversible upon drug withdrawal. Furthermore, MEKi resistance could be reversed by DNA methyltransferase inhibition with remarkable sensitivity exclusively in the resistant cells. CONCLUSION: Overall, the concept of acquired therapy resistance as a result of the expansion of a single cell clone with epigenetic plasticity sheds light on genetic, epigenetic and phenotypic patterns during evolvement of treatment resistance in a tumor with high adaptive capabilities and provides potential for reversion through epigenetic targeting.
PXD041283	38229196	Comparison of the ability of exosomes and ectosomes derived from adipose-derived stromal cells to promote cartilage regeneration in a rat osteochondral defect model. 	Comparison of the ability of exosomes and ectosomes derived from mesenchymal stem cells to promote cartilage regeneration in a rat osteochondral defect model	Cartilage regeneration, Ectosomes, Exosomes, Macrophages., Mesenchymal stem cells	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) offer promising prospects for stimulating cartilage regeneration. The different formation mechanisms suggest that exosomes and ectosomes possess different biological functions. However, little attention has been paid to the differential effects of EV subsets on cartilage regeneration. METHODS: Our study compared the effects of the two EVs isolated from adipose-derived MSCs (ASCs) on chondrocytes and bone marrow-derived MSCs (BMSCs) in vitro. Additionally, we loaded the two EVs into type I collagen hydrogels to optimize their application for the treatment of osteochondral defects in vivo. RESULTS: In vitro experiments demonstrate that ASC-derived exosomes (ASC-Exos) significantly promoted the proliferation and migration of both cells more effectively than ASC-derived ectosomes (ASC-Ectos). Furthermore, ASC-Exos facilitated a stronger differentiation of BMSCs into chondrogenic cells than ASC-Ectos, but both inhibited chondrocyte apoptosis to a similar extent. In the osteochondral defect model of rats, ASC-Exos promoted cartilage regeneration in situ better than ASC-Ectos. At 8 weeks, the hydrogel containing exosomes group (Gel + Exo group) had higher macroscopic and histological scores, a higher value of trabecular bone volume fraction (BV/TV), a lower value of trabecular thickness (Tb.Sp), and a better remodeling of extracellular matrix than the hydrogel containing ectosomes group (Gel + Ecto group). At 4 and 8 weeks, the expression of CD206 and Arginase-1 in the Gel + Exo group was significantly higher than that in the Gel + Ecto group. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that administering ASC-Exos may be a more effective EV strategy for cartilage regeneration than the administration of ASC-Ectos.
PXD045370	38230968	Biomimetic Synthesis and Chemical Proteomics Reveal the Mechanism of Action and Functional Targets of Phloroglucinol Meroterpenoids. 	Biomimetic Synthesis and Chemical Proteomics Reveal the Mechanism of Action and Functional Targets of Lysine-Reactive Phloroglucinol Meroterpenoids	Chemical proteomics, activity-based protein profiling, glycolysis, lipid metabolism, lysine conjugation, mitochondrial respiration., natural products, phloroglucinol meroterpenoids	Natural products perennially serve as prolific sources of drug leads and chemical probes, fueling the development of numerous therapeutics. Despite their scarcity, natural products that modulate protein function through covalent interactions with lysine residues hold immense potential to unlock new therapeutic interventions and advance our understanding of the biological processes governed by these modifications. Phloroglucinol meroterpenoids constitute one of the most expansive classes of natural products, displaying a plethora of biological activities. However, their mechanism of action and cellular targets have, until now, remained elusive. In this study, we detail the concise biomimetic synthesis, computational mechanistic insights, physicochemical attributes, kinetic parameters, molecular mechanism of action, and functional cellular targets of several phloroglucinol meroterpenoids. We harness synthetic clickable analogues of natural products to probe their disparate proteome-wide reactivity and subcellular localization through in-gel fluorescence scanning and cell imaging. By implementing sample multiplexing and a redesigned lysine-targeting probe, we streamline a quantitative activity-based protein profiling, enabling the direct mapping of global reactivity and ligandability of proteinaceous lysines in human cells. Leveraging this framework, we identify numerous lysine-meroterpenoid interactions in breast cancer cells at tractable protein sites across diverse structural and functional classes, including those historically deemed undruggable. We validate that phloroglucinol meroterpenoids perturb biochemical functions through stereoselective and site-specific modification of lysines in proteins vital for breast cancer metabolism, including lipid signaling, mitochondrial respiration, and glycolysis. These findings underscore the broad potential of phloroglucinol meroterpenoids for targeting functional lysines in the human proteome.
PXD042950	38233389	High-content screening identifies a small molecule that restores AP-4-dependent protein trafficking in neuronal models of AP-4-associated hereditary spastic paraplegia. 	High-Content Screening Identifies A Small Molecule That Restores AP-4-dependent Protein Trafficking In Neuronal Models Of AP-4-Associated Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia	HSP, autophagy, drug screen, iPSC, protein trafficking	Unbiased phenotypic screens in patient-relevant disease models offer the potential to detect therapeutic targets for rare diseases. In this study, we developed a high-throughput screening assay to identify molecules that correct aberrant protein trafficking in adapter protein complex 4 (AP-4) deficiency, a rare but prototypical form of childhood-onset hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by mislocalization of the autophagy protein ATG9A. Using high-content microscopy and an automated image analysis pipeline, we screened a diversity library of 28,864 small molecules and identified a lead compound, BCH-HSP-C01, that restored ATG9A pathology in multiple disease models, including patient-derived fibroblasts and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons. We used multiparametric orthogonal strategies and integrated transcriptomic and proteomic approaches to delineate potential mechanisms of action of BCH-HSP-C01. Our results define molecular regulators of intracellular ATG9A trafficking and characterize a lead compound for the treatment of AP-4 deficiency, providing important proof-of-concept data for future studies.
PXD040917	38233584	Covalent inhibition of pro-apoptotic BAX. 	Covalent Inhibition of Pro-Apoptotic BAX	BAX, HDX-MS, covalent inhibitor, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry	BCL-2-associated X protein (BAX) is a promising therapeutic target for activating or restraining apoptosis in diseases of pathologic cell survival or cell death, respectively. In response to cellular stress, BAX transforms from a quiescent cytosolic monomer into a toxic oligomer that permeabilizes the mitochondria, releasing key apoptogenic factors. The mitochondrial lipid trans-2-hexadecenal (t-2-hex) sensitizes BAX activation by covalent derivatization of cysteine 126 (C126). In this study, we performed a disulfide tethering screen to discover C126-reactive molecules that modulate BAX activity. We identified covalent BAX inhibitor 1 (CBI1) as a compound that selectively derivatizes BAX at C126 and inhibits BAX activation by triggering ligands or point mutagenesis. Biochemical and structural analyses revealed that CBI1 can inhibit BAX by a dual mechanism of action: conformational constraint and competitive blockade of lipidation. These data inform a pharmacologic strategy for suppressing apoptosis in diseases of unwanted cell death by covalent targeting of BAX C126.
PXD047430	38233630	Age-related noncanonical TRMT6-TRMT61A signaling impairs hematopoietic stem cells. 	Affinity purification of TRMT6/61A protein complexes	TRMT6/61A complex	Aged hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) exhibit compromised reconstitution capacity and differentiation bias toward myeloid lineages. However, the molecular mechanism behind HSC aging remains largely unknown. In this study, we observed that RNA N(1)-methyladenosine-generating methyltransferase TRMT6-TRMT61A complex is increased in aged murine HSCs due to aging-declined CRL4(DCAF1)-mediated ubiquitination degradation signaling. Unexpectedly, no difference of tRNA N(1)-methyladenosine methylome is observed between young and aged hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, suggesting a noncanonical role of the TRMT6-TRMT61A complex in the HSC aging process. Further investigation revealed that enforced TRMT6-TRMT61A impairs HSCs through 3'-tiRNA-Leu-CAG and subsequent RIPK1-RIPK3-MLKL-mediated necroptosis cascade. Deficiency of necroptosis ameliorates the self-renewal capacity of HSCs and counters the physiologically deleterious effect of enforced TRMT6-TRMT61A on HSCs. Together, our work uncovers a nonclassical role for the TRMT6-TRMT61A complex in HSC aging and highlights a therapeutic target.
PXD028461	38233718	Decoding the function of Atg13 phosphorylation reveals a role of Atg11 in bulk autophagy initiation. 	Phosphorylation Mapping of Atg13 in Response to Atg1 Activity and Rapamycin Treatment in Budding Yeast	Autophagy, Phosphorylation, Quantitative Proteomics, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Autophagy is initiated by the assembly of multiple autophagy-related proteins that form the phagophore assembly site where autophagosomes are formed. Atg13 is essential early in this process, and a hub of extensive phosphorylation. How these multiple phosphorylations contribute to autophagy initiation, however, is not well understood. Here we comprehensively analyze the role of phosphorylation events on Atg13 during nutrient-rich conditions and nitrogen starvation. We identify and functionally characterize 48 in vivo phosphorylation sites on Atg13. By generating reciprocal mutants, which mimic the dephosphorylated active and phosphorylated inactive state of Atg13, we observe that disrupting the dynamic regulation of Atg13 leads to insufficient or excessive autophagy, which are both detrimental to cell survival. We furthermore demonstrate an involvement of Atg11 in bulk autophagy even during nitrogen starvation, where it contributes together with Atg1 to the multivalency that drives phase separation of the phagophore assembly site. These findings reveal the importance of post-translational regulation on Atg13 early during autophagy initiation, which provides additional layers of regulation to control bulk autophagy activity and integrate cellular signals.
PXD048421	38234806	PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimer activation negatively affects downstream ERK1/2 signaling and cellular proliferation. 	PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimer activation negatively affects downstream ERK1/2 signaling and cellular proliferation	HCC15, PDGFR, SILAC, global proteomics	The platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) family of receptor tyrosine kinases allows cells to communicate with one another by binding to growth factors at the plasma membrane and activating intracellular signaling pathways to elicit responses such as migration, proliferation, survival and differentiation. The PDGFR family consists of two receptors, PDGFRalpha and PDGFRbeta, that dimerize to form PDGFRalpha homodimers, PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers and PDGFRbeta homodimers. Here, we overcame prior technical limitations in visualizing and purifying PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers by generating a cell line stably expressing C-terminal fusions of PDGFRalpha and PDGFRbeta with bimolecular fluorescence complementation fragments corresponding to the N-terminal and C-terminal regions of the Venus fluorescent protein, respectively. We found that these receptors heterodimerize relatively quickly in response to PDGF-BB ligand treatment, with a peak of receptor autophosphorylation following 5 minutes of ligand stimulation. Moreover, we demonstrated that PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers are rapidly internalized into early endosomes, particularly signaling endosomes, where they dwell for extended lengths of time. We showed that PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimer activation does not induce downstream phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and significantly inhibits cell proliferation. Further, we characterized the PDGFR dimer-specific interactome and identified MYO1D as a novel protein that preferentially binds PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers. We demonstrated that knockdown of MYO1D leads to retention of PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers at the plasma membrane, resulting in increased phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and increased cell proliferation. Collectively, our findings impart valuable insight into the molecular mechanisms by which specificity is introduced downstream of PDGFR activation to differentially propagate signaling and generate distinct cellular responses. One-sentence summary: PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimer binding to MYO1D contributes to rapid internalization of the dimerized receptors, thereby negatively affecting downstream ERK1/2 signaling and cellular proliferation.
PXD039146	38235188	Alzheimer's disease early diagnostic and staging biomarkers revealed by large-scale cerebrospinal fluid and serum proteomic profiling. 	Large-scale paired cerebrospinal fluid and serum proteomic profiling reveals novel biomarkers for the early diagnosis and staging of Alzheimer's disease	AD, CSF, serum	Amyloid-beta, tau pathology, and biomarkers of neurodegeneration make up the core diagnostic biomarkers of Alzheimer disease (AD). However, these proteins represent only a fraction of the complex biological processes underlying AD, and individuals with other brain diseases in which AD pathology is a comorbidity also test positive for these diagnostic biomarkers. More AD-specific early diagnostic and disease staging biomarkers are needed. In this study, we performed tandem mass tag proteomic analysis of paired cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum samples in a discovery cohort comprising 98 participants. Candidate biomarkers were validated by parallel reaction monitoring-based targeted proteomic assays in an independent multicenter cohort comprising 288 participants. We quantified 3,238 CSF and 1,702 serum proteins in the discovery cohort, identifying 171 and 860 CSF proteins and 37 and 323 serum proteins as potential early diagnostic and staging biomarkers, respectively. In the validation cohort, 58 and 21 CSF proteins, as well as 12 and 18 serum proteins, were verified as early diagnostic and staging biomarkers, respectively. Separate 19-protein CSF and an 8-protein serum biomarker panels were built by machine learning to accurately classify mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD from normal cognition with areas under the curve of 0.984 and 0.881, respectively. The 19-protein CSF biomarker panel also effectively discriminated patients with MCI due to AD from patients with other neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, we identified 21 CSF and 18 serum stage-associated proteins reflecting AD stages. Our findings provide a foundation for developing blood-based tests for AD screening and staging in clinical practice.
PXD042436	38235614	Metabolic Bypass Rescues Aberrant S-nitrosylation-Induced TCA Cycle Inhibition and Synapse Loss in Alzheimer's Disease Human Neurons. 	Metabolic bypass partially rescues S-nitrosylation-induced TCA cycle inhibition and synapse loss in Alzheimer's disease human neurons	Alzheimer's disease, S-nitrosylation, TCA cycle inhibition, mitochondrial metabolism	In Alzheimer's disease (AD), dysfunctional mitochondrial metabolism is associated with synaptic loss, the major pathological correlate of cognitive decline. Mechanistic insight for this relationship, however, is still lacking. Here, comparing isogenic wild-type and AD mutant human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived cerebrocortical neurons (hiN), evidence is found for compromised mitochondrial energy in AD using the Seahorse platform to analyze glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Isotope-labeled metabolic flux experiments revealed a major block in activity in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle at the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alphaKGDH)/succinyl coenzyme-A synthetase step, metabolizing alpha-ketoglutarate to succinate. Associated with this block, aberrant protein S-nitrosylation of alphaKGDH subunits inhibited their enzyme function. This aberrant S-nitrosylation is documented not only in AD-hiN but also in postmortem human AD brains versus controls, as assessed by two separate unbiased mass spectrometry platforms using both SNOTRAP identification of S-nitrosothiols and chemoselective-enrichment of S-nitrosoproteins. Treatment with dimethyl succinate, a cell-permeable derivative of a TCA substrate downstream to the block, resulted in partial rescue of mitochondrial bioenergetic function as well as reversal of synapse loss in AD-hiN. These findings have therapeutic implications that rescue of mitochondrial energy metabolism can ameliorate synaptic loss in hiPSC-based models of AD.
PXD047553	38236023	Proteomic analysis of meropenem-induced outer membrane vesicles released by carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae. 	Postgraduate Scientific Research Innovation Plan of Bengbu Medical College	Outer membrane vesicle	IMPORTANCE: Meropenem is one of the main antibiotics used in the clinical treatment of carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae (CRKP). This study demonstrated that some important metabolic changes occurred in meropenem-induced CRKP-outer membrane vesicles (OMVs), The OMVs proteome expression profile indicates increased secretion of stress proteins released from meropenem-induced Klebsiella pneumoniae. Furthermore, this is the first study to discuss the protein-protein interaction network of the OMVs released by CRKP, especially under antibiotic stress.
PXD032192	38236720	Alzheimer proteopathic tau seeds are biochemically a forme fruste of mature paired helical filaments. 	Proteopathic tau seeds contain key similarities to mature paired helical filaments in Alzheimer disease	Alzheimers disease, Clinical progression, Human Tau, LFQ, Post-translational modification, Protein aggregation, Proteopathy, SRM	Aggregation prone molecules, such as tau, form both historically well characterized fibrillar deposits (neurofibrillary tangles) and recently identified phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) extract species called proteopathic seeds. Both can cause normal endogenous tau to undergo templated misfolding. The relationship of these seeds to the fibrils that define tau-related diseases is unknown. We characterized the aqueous extractable and sarkosyl insoluble fibrillar tau species derived from human Alzheimer brain using mass spectrometry and in vitro bioassays. Post-translational modifications (PTMs) including phosphorylation, acetylation and ubiquitination are identified in both preparations. PBS extract seed competent tau can be distinguished from sarkosyl insoluble tau by the presence of overlapping, but less abundant, PTMs and an absence of some PTMs unique to the latter. The presence of ubiquitin and other PTMs on the PBS-extracted tau species correlates with the amount of tau in the seed competent size exclusion fractions, with the bioactivity and with the aggressiveness of clinical disease. These results demonstrate that the PTMs present on bioactive, seed competent PBS extract tau species are closely related to, but distinct from, the PTMs of mature paired helical filaments, consistent with the idea that they are a forme fruste of tau species that ultimately form fibrils.
PXD047153	38237597	Benzosceptrin C induces lysosomal degradation of PD-L1 and promotes antitumor immunity by targeting DHHC3. 	DARTS for Benzosceptrin C treated to find targets for reducing PD-L1	Benzosceptrin C, RKO	Programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) blockade has become a mainstay of cancer immunotherapy. Targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis with small molecules is an attractive approach to enhance antitumor immunity. Here, we identified a natural marine product, benzosceptrin C (BC), that enhances the cytotoxicity of T cells to cancer cells by reducing the abundance of PD-L1. Furthermore, BC exerts its antitumor effect in mice bearing MC38 tumors by activating tumor-infiltrating T cell immunity. Mechanistic studies suggest that BC can prevent palmitoylation of PD-L1 by inhibiting DHHC3 enzymatic activity. Subsequently, PD-L1 is transferred from the membrane to the cytoplasm and cannot return to the membrane via recycling endosomes, triggering lysosome-mediated degradation of PD-L1. Moreover, the combination of BC and anti-CTLA4 effectively enhances antitumor T cell immunity. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized antitumor mechanism of BC and represent an alternative immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapeutic strategy to enhance the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy.
PXD041728	38237669	Fish oil supplementation modifies the proteome, lipidome and function of high-density lipoprotein: Findings from a trial in young healthy adults. 	The Effect of Fish Oil Supplementations on HDL Proteome, Lipidome and Function	DHA, EPA, Fish Oils, HDL, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	BACKGROUND: Fish oil with the omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an FDA approved treatment for patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia. Further, EPA is an FDA approved treatment for patients with high risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD); however, the cardioprotective mechanisms are not clear. We hypothesized that fish oil supplementation is cardioprotective due to beneficial modifications in HDL particles. METHODS: Seven fish oil naive subjects without a history of CVD were recruited to take a regiment of fish oil (1,125mg EPA and 875mg DHA daily) for 30 days, followed by a 30-day washout period wherein no fish oil supplements were taken. HDL isolated from fasting whole blood at each time point via two-step ultracentrifugation (ucHDL) was assessed for proteome, lipidome, cholesterol efflux capacity (CEC), and anti-inflammatory capacity. RESULTS: Following fish oil, the HDL-associated proteins: immunoglobulin heavy constant gamma 1 (IGHG1), immunoglobulin heavy constant alpha 1 (IGHA1), apolipoprotein D (APOD) and phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) decreased compared to baseline (P<0.05). The HDL-associated phospholipid families: sphingomyelins, phosphatidylcholines and phosphatidylserines increased after fish oil supplementation relative to baseline (P<0.05). Compared to baseline, fish oil supplementation increased serum HDL's CEC (P=0.002). Fish oil-induced changes (Post vs. Baseline) in serum HDL's CEC positively correlated with plasma EPA levels (R(2)=0.7256; P=0.015). Similarly, fish oil-induced changes in ucHDL's CEC positively correlated with ucHDL's ability to reduce interleukin 10 (IL10) (R(2)=0.7353; P=0.014) and interleukin 6 (IL6) mRNA expression (R(2)=0.6322; P=0.033) in a human macrophage cell line. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, fish oil supplementation improved HDL's sterol efflux capacity through comprehensive modifications to its proteome and lipidome.
PXD043824	38237680	Characterization of N-glycosylation and its Functional Role in SIDT1-Mediated RNA Uptake. 	LC-MS/MS Analysis of the glycosylation of human SIDT1 and SIDT2	Glycosylation, human SIDT1, human SIDT2	The mammalian SID-1 transmembrane family members, SIDT1 and SIDT2, are multi-pass transmembrane proteins that mediate the cellular uptake and intracellular trafficking of nucleic acids, playing important roles in the immune response and tumorigenesis. Previous work has suggested that human SIDT1 and SIDT2 are N-glycosylated, but the precise site-specific N-glycosylation information and its functional contribution remain unclear. In this study, we employ high-resolution liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry to comprehensively map the N-glycosites and quantify the N-glycosylation profiles of SIDT1 and SIDT2. Further molecular mechanistic probing elucidates the essential role of N-linked glycans in regulating cell surface expression, RNA binding, protein stability, and RNA uptake of SIDT1. Our results provide crucial information about the potential functional impact of N-glycosylation in the regulation of SIDT1-mediated RNA uptake and provide insights into the molecular mechanisms of this promising nucleic acid delivery system, with potential implications for therapeutic applications.
PXD047862	38238893	Mycobacterium abscessus extracellular vesicles increase mycobacterial resistance to clarithromycin in vitro. 	Mycobacterium abscessus Extracellular Vesicles Increase Mycobacterial Resistance to Clarithromycin in vitro	Clarithromycin, Extracellular Vesicles, Mycobacterium abscessus	Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) are a group of emerging bacterial pathogens that have been identified in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with microbial lung infections. The treatment of NTM infection in CF patients is challenging due to the natural resistance of NTM species to many antibiotics. Mycobacterium abscessus is one of the most common NTM species found in the airways of CF patients. In this study, we characterized the extracellular vesicles (EVs) released by drug-sensitive M. abscessus untreated or treated with clarithromycin (CLR), one of the frontline anti-NTM drugs. Our data show that exposure to CLR increases mycobacterial protein trafficking into EVs as well as the secretion of EVs in culture. Additionally, EVs released by CLR-treated M. abscessus increase M. abscessus resistance to CLR when compared to EVs from untreated M. abscessus. Proteomic analysis further indicates that EVs released by CLR-treated M. abscessus carry an increased level of 50S ribosomal subunits, the target of CLR. Taken together, our results suggest that EVs play an important role in M. abscessus resistance to CLR treatment.
PXD045683	38239111	Traceless Peptide and Protein Modification via Rational Tuning of Pyridiniums. 	Traceless peptide and protein modification via rational tuning of halopyridiniums	Cleavable peptide stapling, Halopyridinium modification, Protein profiling	Herein, we report a versatile reaction platform for tracelessly cleavable cysteine-selective peptide/protein modification. This platform offers highly tunable and predictable conjugation and cleavage by rationally estimating the electron effect on the nucleophilic halopyridiniums. Cleavable peptide stapling, antibody conjugation, enzyme masking/de-masking, and proteome labeling were achieved based on this facile pyridinium-thiol-exchange protocol.
PXD035241	38240239	Identification and Relative Abundance of Naturally Presented and Cross-reactive Influenza A virus MHC class I-restricted T Cell Epitopes. 	Identification of naturally-presented influenza A virus CD8+ T cell epitopes	CD8+ T cell, Influenza A virus, Ligandome analysis, T cell epitopes	AbstractCytotoxic T lymphocytes are key for controlling viral infection. Unraveling CD8(+) T cell-mediated immunity to distinct influenza virus strains and subtypes across prominent HLA types is relevant for combating seasonal infections and emerging new variants. Using an immunopeptidomics approach, naturally presented influenza A virus-derived ligands restricted to HLA-A*24:02, HLA-A*68:01, HLA-B*07:02, and HLA-B*51:01 molecules were identified. Functional characterization revealed multifunctional memory CD8(+) T cell responses for nine out of sixteen peptides. Peptide presentation kinetics was optimal around 12 hours post infection and presentation of immunodominant epitopes shortly after infection was not always persistent. Assessment of immunogenic epitopes revealed that they are highly conserved across the major zoonotic reservoirs and may contained single substitution in vicinity of the anchor residues. These findings demonstrate how the identified epitopes promote T cell pools possibly cross-protective in individuals and can be potential targets for vaccination.
PXD035110	38240353	The Drosophila Tumour Suppressor Lgl and Vap33 activate the Hippo pathway by a dual mechanism. 	Vap33 protein interactome - The Drosophila tumor suppressors Lgl and Vap33 activate the Hippo pathway by a dual mechanism involving RtGEF/Git/Arf79F and inhibition of the V-ATPase	Drosophila, Vap33, embryo	The tumour suppressor, Lethal (2) giant larvae (Lgl), is an evolutionarily conserved protein that was discovered in the vinegar fly, Drosophila, where its depletion results in tissue overgrowth and loss of cell polarity. Lgl links cell polarity and tissue growth through regulation of the Notch and the Hippo signalling pathways. Lgl regulates the Notch pathway by inhibiting V-ATPase activity via Vap33. How Lgl regulates the Hippo pathway was unclear. In this current study, we show that V-ATPase activity inhibits the Hippo pathway, whereas Vap33 acts to activate Hippo signalling. Vap33 physically and genetically interacts with the actin cytoskeletal regulators RtGEF (Pix) and Git, which also bind to Hpo, and are involved in the activation of the Hippo pathway. Additionally, we show that the ADP ribosylation factor Arf79F (Arf1), which is a Hpo interactor, is involved in the inhibition of the Hippo pathway. Altogether our data suggests that Lgl acts via Vap33 to activate the Hippo pathway by a dual mechanism, 1) through interaction with RtGEF/Git/Arf79F, and 2) through interaction and inhibition of the V-ATPase, thereby controlling epithelial tissue growth.
PXD044286	38240888	Multi-level profiling unravels mitochondrial dysfunction in myotonic dystrophy type 2. 	Multi-level profiling unravels mitochondrial dysfunction in Myotonic Dystrophy type 2	Myotonic Dystrophy Type 2, Proximal Myotonic Myopathy, mitochondrial dysfunction, repeat expansion disease	Myotonic dystrophy type 2 (DM2) is an autosomal-dominant multisystemic disease with a core manifestation of proximal muscle weakness, muscle atrophy, myotonia, and myalgia. The disease-causing CCTG tetranucleotide expansion within the CNBP gene on chromosome 3 leads to an RNA-dominated spliceopathy, which is currently untreatable. Research exploring the pathophysiological mechanisms in myotonic dystrophy type 1 has resulted in new insights into disease mechanisms and identified mitochondrial dysfunction as a promising therapeutic target. It remains unclear whether similar mechanisms underlie DM2 and, if so, whether these might also serve as potential therapeutic targets. In this cross-sectional study, we studied DM2 skeletal muscle biopsy specimens on proteomic, molecular, and morphological, including ultrastructural levels in two separate patient cohorts consisting of 8 (explorative cohort) and 40 (confirmatory cohort) patients. Seven muscle biopsy specimens from four female and three male DM2 patients underwent proteomic analysis and respiratory chain enzymology. We performed bulk RNA sequencing, immunoblotting of respiratory chain complexes, mitochondrial DNA copy number determination, and long-range PCR (LR-PCR) to study mitochondrial DNA deletions on six biopsies. Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed a downregulation of essential mitochondrial proteins and their respective RNA transcripts, namely of subunits of respiratory chain complexes I, III, and IV (e.g., mt-CO1, mt-ND1, mt-CYB, NDUFB6) and associated translation factors (TACO1). Light microscopy showed mitochondrial abnormalities (e.g., an age-inappropriate amount of COX-deficient fibers, subsarcolemmal accumulation) in most biopsy specimens. Electron microscopy revealed widespread ultrastructural mitochondrial abnormalities, including dysmorphic mitochondria with paracrystalline inclusions. Immunofluorescence studies with co-localization of autophagy (p62, LC-3) and mitochondrial marker proteins (TOM20, COX-IV), as well as immunohistochemistry for mitophagy marker BNIP3 indicated impaired mitophagic flux. Immunoblotting and LR-PCR did not reveal significant differences between patients and controls. In contrast, mtDNA copy number measurement showed a reduction of mtDNA copy numbers in the patient group compared to controls. This first multi-level study of DM2 unravels thus far undescribed functional and structural mitochondrial abnormalities. However, the molecular link between the tetranucleotide expansion and mitochondrial dysfunction needs to be further elucidated.
PXD029972	38241363	Induced degradation of lineage-specific oncoproteins drives the therapeutic vulnerability of small cell lung cancer to PARP inhibitors. 	Induced Degradation of Lineage-specific Oncoproteins Underlies the Selective PARP1 Inhibitor Toxicity in Small Cell Lung Cancer	ASCL1, BRCA1/2, PARP1 inhibitor, PiPS, Quantitative proteomics, a histone demethylase, homologous recombination, lineage-specific oncoproteins, predictive biomarkers, small cell lung cancer, synergistic effect	Although BRCA1/2 mutations are not commonly found in small cell lung cancer (SCLC), a substantial fraction of SCLC shows clinically relevant response to PARP inhibitors (PARPis). However, the underlying mechanism(s) of PARPi sensitivity in SCLC is poorly understood. We performed quantitative proteomic analyses and identified proteomic changes that signify PARPi responses in SCLC cells. We found that the vulnerability of SCLC to PARPi could be explained by the degradation of lineage-specific oncoproteins (e.g., ASCL1). PARPi-induced activation of the E3 ligase HUWE1 mediated the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS)-dependent ASCL1 degradation. Although PARPi induced a general DNA damage response in SCLC cells, this signal generated a cell-specific response in ASCL1 degradation, leading to the identification of HUWE1 expression as a predictive biomarker for PARPi. Combining PARPi with agents targeting these pathways markedly improved therapeutic response in SCLC. The degradation of lineage-specific oncoproteins therefore represents a previously unidentified mechanism for PARPi efficacy in SCLC.
PXD032343	38241836	Endothelial transferrin receptor 1 contributes to thrombogenesis through cascade ferroptosis. 	LC-MS/MS analysis for femoral vein of rat with deep venous thrombosis	Deep venous thrombosis, Femoral vein, Protein	Oxidative stress and iron accumulation-induced ferroptosis occurs in injured vascular cells and can promote thrombogenesis. Transferrin receptor 1 (encoded by the TFRC gene) is an initial element involved in iron transport and ferroptosis and is highly expressed in injured vascular tissues, but its role in thrombosis has not been determined. To explore the potential mechanism and therapeutic effect of TFRC on thrombogenesis, a DVT model of femoral veins (FVs) was established in rats, and weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify TFRC as a hub protein that is associated with thrombus formation. TFRC was knocked down by adeno-associated virus (AAV) or lentivirus transduction in FVs or human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), respectively. Thrombus characteristics and ferroptosis biomarkers were evaluated. Colocalization analysis, molecular docking and coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) were used to evaluate protein interactions. Tissue-specific TFRC knockdown alleviated iron overload and redox stress, thereby preventing ferroptosis in injured FVs. Loss of TFRC in injured veins could alleviate thrombogenesis, reduce thrombus size and attenuate hypercoagulability. The protein level of thrombospondin-1 (THBS1) was increased in DVT tissues, and silencing TFRC decreased the protein level of THBS1. In vitro experiments further showed that TFRC and THBS1 were sensitive to erastin-induced ferroptosis and that TFRC knockdown reversed this effect. TFRC can interact with THBS1 in the domain spanning from TSR1-2 to TSR1-3 of THBS1. Amino acid sites, including GLN320 of TFRC and ASP502 of THBS1, could be potential pharmacological targets. Erastin induced ferroptosis affected extracellular THBS1 levels and weakened the interaction between TFRC and THBS1 both in vivo and in vitro, and promoted the interaction between THBS1 and CD47. This study revealed a linked relationship between venous ferroptosis and coagulation cascades. Controlling TFRC and ferroptosis in endothelial cells can be an efficient approach for preventing and treating thrombogenesis.
PXD040979	38242130	Acetyl-CoA production by Mediator-bound 2-ketoacid dehydrogenases boosts de novo histone acetylation and is regulated by nitric oxide. 	Acetyl-CoA production by Mediator-bound 2-ketoacid dehydrogenases boosts de novo histone acetylation and is regulated by nitric oxide	2-ketoacid dehydrogenases, Mediator, acetylation, chromatin, pyruvate dehydrogenase, transcription	Histone-modifying enzymes depend on the availability of cofactors, with acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) being required for histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity. The discovery that mitochondrial acyl-CoA-producing enzymes translocate to the nucleus suggests that high concentrations of locally synthesized metabolites may impact acylation of histones and other nuclear substrates, thereby controlling gene expression. Here, we show that 2-ketoacid dehydrogenases are stably associated with the Mediator complex, thus providing a local supply of acetyl-CoA and increasing the generation of hyper-acetylated histone tails. Nitric oxide (NO), which is produced in large amounts in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages, inhibited the activity of Mediator-associated 2-ketoacid dehydrogenases. Elevation of NO levels and the disruption of Mediator complex integrity both affected de novo histone acetylation within a shared set of genomic regions. Our findings indicate that the local supply of acetyl-CoA generated by 2-ketoacid dehydrogenases bound to Mediator is required to maximize acetylation of histone tails at sites of elevated HAT activity.
PXD039489	38242207	Thrombin activation of the factor XI dimer is a multi-staged process for each subunit. 	Thrombin activation of the factor XI dimer is a multi-staged process for each subunit	Factor XI, PhoX, crosslinking mass spectrometry, molecular dynamics, thrombin	BACKGROUND: Factor XI (FXI) can be activated by proteases including thrombin and FXIIa. The interactions of these enzymes with FXI are transient in nature and therefore difficult to study. AIM: To identify the binding interface between thrombin and FXI and understand the dynamics underlying FXI activation. METHODS: Crosslinking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) was used to localize the binding interface of thrombin on FXI. Molecular dynamics simulations were applied to investigate conformational changes enabling thrombin-mediated FXI activation after binding. The proposed trajectory of activation was examined with nanobody 1C10, which was previously shown to inhibit thrombin-mediated activation of FXI. RESULTS: We identified a binding interface of thrombin located on the light chain of FXI involving residue Pro520. After this initial interaction, FXI undergoes conformational changes driven by binding of thrombin to the apple 1 domain in a secondary step to allow for migration towards the FXI cleavage site. The 1C10 binding site on the apple 1 domain supports this proposed trajectory of thrombin. We validated the results with known mutation sites on FXI. As Pro520 is conserved in prekallikrein (PK), we hypothesized and show thrombin can bind PK even though it cannot activate PK. CONCLUSIONS: Our investigations show that the activation of FXI is a multi-staged procedure. Thrombin first binds to Pro520 in FXI, after which it migrates towards the activation site by engaging the apple 1 domain. This detailed analysis of the interaction between thrombin and FXI points a way for future interventions for bleeding or thrombosis.
PXD046960	38243078	Unique vulnerability of RAC1-mutant melanoma to combined inhibition of CDK9 and immune checkpoints. 	Unique vulnerability of RAC1-mutant melanoma to combined inhibition of CDK9 and immune checkpoints	CDK9, PD-1, RAC1, melanoma	RAC1(P29S) is the third most prevalent hotspot mutation in sun-exposed melanoma. RAC1 alterations in cancer are correlated with poor prognosis, resistance to standard chemotherapy, and insensitivity to targeted inhibitors. Although RAC1(P29S) mutations in melanoma and RAC1 alterations in several other cancers are increasingly evident, the RAC1-driven biological mechanisms contributing to tumorigenesis remain unclear. Lack of rigorous signaling analysis has prevented identification of alternative therapeutic targets for RAC1(P29S)-harboring melanomas. To investigate the RAC1(P29S)-driven effect on downstream molecular signaling pathways, we generated an inducible RAC1(P29S) expression melanocytic cell line and performed RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) coupled with multiplexed kinase inhibitor beads and mass spectrometry (MIBs/MS) to establish enriched pathways from the genomic to proteomic level. Our proteogenomic analysis identified CDK9 as a potential new and specific target in RAC1(P29S)-mutant melanoma cells. In vitro, CDK9 inhibition impeded the proliferation of in RAC1(P29S)-mutant melanoma cells and increased surface expression of PD-L1 and MHC Class I proteins. In vivo, combining CDK9 inhibition with anti-PD-1 immune checkpoint blockade significantly inhibited tumor growth only in melanomas that expressed the RAC1(P29S) mutation. Collectively, these results establish CDK9 as a novel target in RAC1-driven melanoma that can further sensitize the tumor to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.
PXD043857	38244256	Extracellular vesicles from Staphylococcus aureus promote the pathogenicity of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	The quantitative proteomic analysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa treated with or without Staphylococcus aureus-derived extracellular vesicles (SaEVs)	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, SWATH, Staphylococcus aureus, extracellular vesicles	Co-infections with Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa are common in patients with chronic wounds, but little is known about their synergistic effect mediated by extracellular vesicles (EVs). In this study, we investigated the effect of EVs derived from S. aureus (SaEVs) on the pathogenicity of P. aeruginosa. By using lipophilic dye, we could confirm the fusion between SaEV and P. aeruginosa membranes. However, SaEVs did not alter the growth and antibiotic susceptible pattern of P. aeruginosa. Differential proteomic analysis between SaEV-treated and non-treated P. aeruginosa was performed, and the results revealed that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis protein in P. aeruginosa significantly increased after SaEV-treatment. Regarding this result, we also found that SaEVs promoted LPS production, biofilm formation, and expression of polysaccharide polymerization-related genes in P. aeruginosa. Furthermore, invasion of epithelial cells by SaEV-pretreated P. aeruginosa was enhanced. On the other hand, uptake of P. aeruginosa by RAW 264.7 macrophages was impaired after pretreatment P. aeruginosa with SaEVs. Proteomic analysis SaEVs revealed that SaEVs contain the proteins involving in host cell colonization, inhibition of host immune response, anti-phagocytosis of the macrophages, and protein translocation and iron uptake of S. aureus. In conclusion, SaEVs serve as a mediator that promote P. aeruginosa pathogenicity by enhancing LPS biosynthesis, biofilm formation, epithelial cell invasion, and macrophage uptake impairment.
PXD045409	38245532	Proteomic analysis of SARS-CoV-2 particles unveils a key role of G3BP proteins in viral assembly. 	Proteomic analysis of SARS-CoV-2 particles unveils a key role of G3BP proteins in viral assembly	ACE2 receptor, G3BP1 and G3BP2, SARS-CoV-2, Virion capture, cellular factors	Considerable progress has been made in understanding the molecular host-virus battlefield during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Nevertheless, the assembly and egress of newly formed virions are less understood. To identify host proteins involved in viral morphogenesis, we characterize the proteome of SARS-CoV-2 virions produced from A549-ACE2 and Calu-3 cells, isolated via ultracentrifugation on sucrose cushion or by ACE-2 affinity capture. Bioinformatic analysis unveils 92 SARS-CoV-2 virion-associated host factors, providing a valuable resource to better understand the molecular environment of virion production. We reveal that G3BP1 and G3BP2 (G3BP1/2), two major stress granule nucleators, are embedded within virions and unexpectedly favor virion production. Furthermore, we show that G3BP1/2 participate in the formation of cytoplasmic membrane vesicles, that are likely virion assembly sites, consistent with a proviral role of G3BP1/2 in SARS-CoV-2 dissemination. Altogether, these findings provide new insights into host factors required for SARS-CoV-2 assembly with potential implications for future therapeutic targeting.
PXD046484	38246484	TMEM225 is essential for sperm maturation and male fertility by modifying protein distribution of sperm in mice. 	Proteomics of male reproduction	Asthenospermia, Infertility, ROS, Sperm maturation, Transmembrane protein	Nonobstructive azoospermia (NOA) is the leading cause of male infertility. Abnormal levels of transmembrane protein 225 (TMEM225), a testis-specific protein, have been found in patients with NOA, suggesting that TMEM225 plays an essential role in male fertility. Here, we generated a Tmem225 knockout (KO) mouse model to explore the function and mechanism of TMEM225 in male reproduction. Male Tmem225 KO mice were infertile. Surprisingly, Tmem225 deletion did not affect spermatogenesis, but TMEM225-null sperm exhibited abnormalities during epididymal maturation, resulting in reduced sperm motility and an abnormal hairpin-loop configuration. Furthermore, proteomics analyses of cauda sperm revealed that signaling pathways related to mitochondrial function, the glycolytic pathway, and sperm flagellar morphology were abnormal in Tmem225 KO sperm, and spermatozoa lacking TMEM225 exhibited high reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, reduced motility, and flagellar folding, leading to typical asthenospermia. These findings suggest that testicular TMEM225 may control the sperm maturation process by regulating the expression of proteins related to mitochondrial function, glycolysis, and sperm flagellar morphology in epididymal spermatozoa.
PXD021469	38247467	The Binding of HSPA8 and Mitochondrial ALDH2 Mediates Oxygen-Glucose Deprivation-Induced Fibroblast Senescence. 	Proteomic analysis identifies the potential effects of trichostatin A and bone marrow-derived dendritic cells on NIH3T3 cells under oxygen-glucose deprivation conditions	BMDCs, NIH3T3 cells, TSA, fatty acid metabolism	Cellular senescence refers to the permanent and irreversible cessation of the cell cycle. Recently, it has gained significant interest as a promising target for preventing cardiovascular diseases. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) is a mitochondrial enzyme that has been closely linked with an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases. In this study, bioinformatics analysis revealed that the signaling pathway for fibroblast senescence is significantly activated in mice after myocardial infarction (MI), and that ALDH2 might be a crucial molecule responsible for inducing this change. Therefore, we created an NIH3T3 fibroblast cell line oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) model to replicate the conditions of MI in vitro. We further revealed that decreased ALDH2 enzyme activity is a critical factor that affects fibroblast senescence after OGD, and the activation of ALDH2 can improve the mitochondrial damage caused by OGD. We identified Heat Shock 70-kDa Protein 8 (HSPA8) as an interacting protein of ALDH2 through co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and mass spectrometry (MS) detection. Subsequently, our studies showed that HSPA8 translocates to the mitochondria after OGD, potentially binding to ALDH2 and inhibiting its enzyme activity. By transfecting siRNA to inhibit HSPA8 expression in cells, it was found that ALDH2 enzyme activity can be significantly increased, and the senescence characteristics induced by OGD in NIH3T3 cells can be improved. In conclusion, the data from this study suggest that HSPA8, in conjunction with ALDH2, could regulate fibroblast senescence after oxygen-glucose deprivation, providing a new direction and foundation for effectively intervening in fibroblast senescence after myocardial infarction.
PXD045759	38247530	Oxidative Post-translational Protein Modifications upon Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury. 	Time-course of ischemia-reperfusion in a mouse model	PTMs, heart tissue, ischemia reperfusion (I/R), quantitative proteomics	While reperfusion, or restoration of coronary blood flow in acute myocardial infarction, is a requisite for myocardial salvage, it can paradoxically induce a specific damage known as ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Our understanding of the precise pathophysiological molecular alterations leading to I/R remains limited. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive and unbiased time-course analysis of post-translational modifications (PTMs) in the post-reperfused myocardium of two different animal models (pig and mouse) and evaluated the effect of two different cardioprotective therapies (ischemic preconditioning and neutrophil depletion). In pigs, a first wave of irreversible oxidative damage was observed at the earliest reperfusion time (20 min), impacting proteins essential for cardiac contraction. A second wave, characterized by irreversible oxidation on different residues and reversible Cys oxidation, occurred at late stages (6-12 h), affecting mitochondrial, sarcomere, and inflammation-related proteins. Ischemic preconditioning mitigated the I/R damage caused by the late oxidative wave. In the mouse model, the two-phase pattern of oxidative damage was replicated, and neutrophil depletion mitigated the late wave of I/R-related damage by preventing both Cys reversible oxidation and irreversible oxidation. Altogether, these data identify protein PTMs occurring late after reperfusion as an actionable therapeutic target to reduce the impact of I/R injury.
PXD046763	38247818	Heat Shock Protein SSA1 Enriched in Hypoxic Secretome of Candida albicans Exerts an Immunomodulatory Effect via Regulating Macrophage Function. 	Proteome analysis of secretory substances containing proteins, extracellular vehicles, and others secreted from Candida albicans cultured under normal and hypoxic conditions.	Candida albicans, extracellular vehicles, hypoxia, secretome	Candida albicans is an opportunistic pathogenic yeast that can survive in both normoxic and hypoxic environments. The involvement of C. albicans secretome on host biological processes has been demonstrated. However, the immunoregulatory function of C. albicans secretome released under hypoxic condition remains unclear. This study demonstrated the differences in cytokine responses and protein profiles between secretomes prepared under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Furthermore, the immunoregulatory effects of heat shock protein SSA1(Ssa1), a protein candidate enriched in the hypoxic secretome, were investigated. Stimulation of mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) with Ssa1 resulted in the significant production of interleukin (IL)-10, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha as well as the significant expression of M2b macrophage markers (CD86, CD274 and tumor necrosis factor superfamily member 14), suggesting that C. albicans Ssa1 may promote macrophage polarization towards an M2b-like phenotype. Proteomic analysis of Ssa1-treated BMMs also revealed that Ssa1 reduced inflammation-related factors (IL-18-binding protein, IL-1 receptor antagonist protein, OX-2 membrane glycoprotein and cis-aconitate decarboxylase) and enhanced the proteins involved in anti-inflammatory response (CMRF35-like molecule 3 and macrophage colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor). Based on these results, we investigated the effect of Ssa1 on C. albicans infection and showed that Ssa1 inhibited the uptake of C. albicans by BMMs. Taken together, our results suggest that C. albicans alters its secretome, particularly by promoting the release of Ssa1, to modulate host immune response and survive under hypoxic conditions.
PXD045223	38247831	The Proteomic Composition and Organization of Constitutive Heterochromatin in Mouse Tissues. 	The proteomic composition of constitutive heterochromatin in mouse tissues	HPLC-MS/MS, brain, liver	Pericentric heterochromatin (PCH) forms spatio-temporarily distinct compartments and affects chromosome organization and stability. Albeit some of its components are known, an elucidation of its proteome and how it differs between tissues in vivo is lacking. Here, we find that PCH compartments are dynamically organized in a tissue-specific manner, possibly reflecting compositional differences. As the mouse brain and liver exhibit very different PCH architecture, we isolated native PCH fractions from these tissues, analyzed their protein compositions using quantitative mass spectrometry, and compared them to identify common and tissue-specific PCH proteins. In addition to heterochromatin-enriched proteins, the PCH proteome includes RNA/transcription and membrane-related proteins, which showed lower abundance than PCH-enriched proteins. Thus, we applied a cut-off of PCH-unspecific candidates based on their abundance and validated PCH-enriched proteins. Amongst the hits, MeCP2 was classified into brain PCH-enriched proteins, while linker histone H1 was not. We found that H1 and MeCP2 compete to bind to PCH and regulate PCH organization in opposite ways. Altogether, our workflow of unbiased PCH isolation, quantitative mass spectrometry, and validation-based analysis allowed the identification of proteins that are common and tissue-specifically enriched at PCH. Further investigation of selected hits revealed their opposing role in heterochromatin higher-order architecture in vivo.
PXD047931	38247867	Analysis of the Mouse Hepatic Peroxisome Proteome-Identification of Novel Protein Constituents Using a Semi-Quantitative SWATH-MS Approach. 	Analysis of the mouse hepatic peroxisome proteome - identification of novel protein constituents using a quantitative SWATH-MS approach	OCIAD1, organelle interaction, organelle proteomics, peroxisomes	Ongoing technical and bioinformatics improvements in mass spectrometry (MS) allow for the identifying and quantifying of the enrichment of increasingly less-abundant proteins in individual fractions. Accordingly, this study reassessed the proteome of mouse liver peroxisomes by the parallel isolation of peroxisomes from a mitochondria- and a microsome-enriched prefraction, combining density-gradient centrifugation with a semi-quantitative SWATH-MS proteomics approach to unveil novel peroxisomal or peroxisome-associated proteins. In total, 1071 proteins were identified using MS and assessed in terms of their distribution in either high-density peroxisomal or low-density gradient fractions, containing the bulk of organelle material. Combining the data from both fractionation approaches allowed for the identification of specific protein profiles characteristic of mitochondria, the ER and peroxisomes. Among the proteins significantly enriched in the peroxisomal cluster were several novel peroxisomal candidates. Five of those were validated by colocalization in peroxisomes, using confocal microscopy. The peroxisomal import of HTATIP2 and PAFAH2, which contain a peroxisome-targeting sequence 1 (PTS1), could be confirmed by overexpression in HepG2 cells. The candidates SAR1B and PDCD6, which are known ER-exit-site proteins, did not directly colocalize with peroxisomes, but resided at ER sites, which frequently surrounded peroxisomes. Hence, both proteins might concentrate at presumably co-purified peroxisome-ER membrane contacts. Intriguingly, the fifth candidate, OCIA domain-containing protein 1, was previously described as decreasing mitochondrial network formation. In this work, we confirmed its peroxisomal localization and further observed a reduction in peroxisome numbers in response to OCIAD1 overexpression. Hence, OCIAD1 appears to be a novel protein, which has an impact on both mitochondrial and peroxisomal maintenance.
PXD047010	38248837	Optimizing MS-Based Multi-Omics: Comparative Analysis of Protein, Metabolite, and Lipid Extraction Techniques. 	Optimizing MS-based multi-omics: comparative analysis of protein, metabolite, and lipid extraction techniques	FASP, Folch method, LC-MS, Matyash method, Multi-omics, S-trap	Multi-omics integrates diverse types of biological information from genomic, proteomic, and metabolomics experiments to achieve a comprehensive understanding of complex cellular mechanisms. However, this approach is also challenging due to technical issues such as limited sample quantities, the complexity of data pre-processing, and reproducibility concerns. Furthermore, existing studies have primarily focused on technical performance assessment and the presentation of modified protocols through quantitative comparisons of the identified protein counts. Nevertheless, the specific differences in these comparisons have been minimally investigated. Here, findings obtained from various omics approaches were profiled using various extraction methods (methanol extraction, the Folch method, and Matyash methods for metabolites and lipids) and two digestion methods (filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) and suspension traps (S-Trap)) for resuspended proteins. FASP was found to be more effective for the identification of membrane-related proteins, whereas S-Trap excelled in isolating nuclear-related and RNA-processing proteins. Thus, FASP may be suitable for investigating the immune response and bacterial infection pathways, whereas S-Trap may be more effective for studies focused on the mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, regarding the choice of extraction method, the single-phase method identified organic compounds and compounds related to fatty acids, whereas the two-phase extraction method identified more hydrophilic compounds such as nucleotides. Lipids with strong hydrophobicity, such as ChE and TG, were identified in the two-phase extraction results. These findings highlight that significant differences among small molecules are primarily identified due to the varying polarities of extraction solvents. These results, obtained by considering variables such as human error and batch effects in the sample preparation step, offer comprehensive and detailed results not previously provided by existing studies, thereby aiding in the selection of the most suitable pre-processing approach.
PXD044216	38250364	Proteome Analysis of the ROF-FKBP Mutants Reveals Functional Relations among Heat Stress Responses, Plant Development, and Protein Quality Control during Heat Acclimation in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Proteome analysis of ROF-FKBP mutants reveals functional relations between heat stress responses, plant development and protein quality control during heat acclimation in A. thaliana	CDC48, FKBP, HSPs, Patellin, Protein quality control, ROF1, ROF2, heat, plant, proteasome, quantitative proteomics, stress	In the present study, a differential screening following heat stress acclimation was performed in Arabidopsis thaliana WT and ROF-FKBP mutated plants using mass spectrometry, and the results were used to understand and analyze the effect of the ROF PPIases during thermotolerance acquisition in plants. Our data highlight the central role of these two PPIases in heat stress and point to their direct or indirect effect on other proteins participating in cellular functions such as protein folding and quality control, cell division, photosynthesis, and other metabolic and signaling processes. Specifically, the heat stress response, protein folding, and protein ER processing pathways are enhanced following a 37 degreesC acclimation period independent of the mutation state. However, at 37 degreesC, and in the double-mutated rof1-/2- plants, a higher accumulation of proteins belonging to the above pathways is observed compared with all other conditions (WT, single mutants, control, and heat-acclimated plants). Furthermore, the proteasomal pathway, involving the common member of both the protasomal and the lysosomal degradation pathway, CDC48, is over-represented in the extracts of both the untreated and heat-stressed rof1-/2- mutants compared with the other extracts. In contrast, in the single rof1- mutation, the heat acclimation pathway is suppressed at 37 degreesC when compared to the WT. Protein accumulation related to the heat stress and the protein quality control pathways points to a differential but also synergistic role of the two proteins. Protein complexes of other biochemical and developmental mechanisms, such as the light-harvesting complex of the photosynthetic pathway and the phosphoinositide binding proteins involved in membrane-trafficking events during cell plate formation and cytokinesis (patellin 1, 2, and 4), are negatively regulated in the rof1-/2- mutant. Our results suggest that ROF1 and ROF2 FKBPs regulate stress response, and developmental and metabolic pathways via a complex feedback mechanism involving partners that ensure protein quality control and plant survival during heat stress.
PXD037405	38251707	Phosphate starvation signaling increases mitochondrial membrane potential through respiration-independent mechanisms. 	Phosphate Starvation Signaling Increases Mitochondrial Membrane Potential through Respiration-independent Mechanisms	Mitochondria, Phosphate	Mitochondrial membrane potential directly powers many critical functions of mitochondria, including ATP production, mitochondrial protein import, and metabolite transport. Its loss is a cardinal feature of aging and mitochondrial diseases, and cells closely monitor membrane potential as an indicator of mitochondrial health. Given its central importance, it is logical that cells would modulate mitochondrial membrane potential in response to demand and environmental cues, but there has been little exploration of this question. We report that loss of the Sit4 protein phosphatase in yeast increases mitochondrial membrane potential, both through inducing the electron transport chain and the phosphate starvation response. Indeed, a similarly elevated mitochondrial membrane potential is also elicited simply by phosphate starvation or by abrogation of the Pho85-dependent phosphate sensing pathway. This enhanced membrane potential is primarily driven by an unexpected activity of the ADP/ATP carrier. We also demonstrate that this connection between phosphate limitation and enhancement of mitochondrial membrane potential is observed in primary and immortalized mammalian cells as well as in Drosophila. These data suggest that mitochondrial membrane potential is subject to environmental stimuli and intracellular signaling regulation and raise the possibility for therapeutic enhancement of mitochondrial function even in defective mitochondria.
PXD045338	38251723	Interplay between acetylation and ubiquitination of imitation switch chromatin remodeler Isw1 confers multidrug resistance in Cryptococcus neoformans. 	Interplay between acetylation and ubiquitination of Isw1 confers multidrug resistance in Cryptococcus neoformans	acetylation, multidrug resistance, ubiquitination	Cryptococcus neoformans poses a threat to human health, but anticryptococcal therapy is hampered by the emergence of drug resistance, whose underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Herein, we discovered that Isw1, an imitation switch chromatin remodeling ATPase, functions as a master modulator of genes responsible for in vivo and in vitro multidrug resistance in C. neoformans. Cells with the disrupted ISW1 gene exhibited profound resistance to multiple antifungal drugs. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed that Isw1 is both acetylated and ubiquitinated, suggesting that an interplay between these two modification events exists to govern Isw1 function. Mutagenesis studies of acetylation and ubiquitination sites revealed that the acetylation status of Isw1(K97) coordinates with its ubiquitination processes at Isw1(K113) and Isw1(K441) through modulating the interaction between Isw1 and Cdc4, an E3 ligase. Additionally, clinical isolates of C. neoformans overexpressing the degradation-resistant ISW1(K97Q) allele showed impaired drug-resistant phenotypes. Collectively, our studies revealed a sophisticated acetylation-Isw1-ubiquitination regulation axis that controls multidrug resistance in C. neoformans. .
PXD039477	38252116	ASCL2 is a key regulator of the proliferation-differentiation equilibrium in the esophageal epithelium. 	ASCL2 is a key regulator of the proliferation-differentiation equilibrium in the esophageal epithelium	ASCL2, differentiation, esophagus, proliferation, stem cells	The esophagus is protected from the hostile environment by a stratified epithelium, which renews rapidly. Homeostasis of this epithelium is ensured by a rare population of stem cells in the basal layer: Keratin 15+ (Krt15+) cells. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms regulating their distinct features, namely self-renewal, potency and epithelial regeneration. Achaete-scute family BHLH transcription factor 2 (ASCL2) is strongly upregulated in Krt15+ stem cells and is known to contribute to stem cell maintenance in other tissues. Herein, we investigated the role of ASCL2 in maintaining homeostasis under normal and stress conditions in the esophageal epithelium. ASCL2 overexpression severely dysregulated cell differentiation and cell fate. Proliferation was also reduced due potentially to a blockage in the G1 phase of the cell cycle or an induction of quiescence. Mass spectrometry analysis confirmed alterations in several proteins associated with differentiation and the cell cycle. In addition, overexpression of ASCL2 enhanced resistance to radiation and chemotherapeutic drugs. Overall, these results denote the role of ASCL2 as a key regulator of the proliferation-differentiation equilibrium in the esophageal epithelium.
PXD034123	38252411	STK19 is a DNA/RNA-binding protein critical for DNA damage repair and cell proliferation. 	STK19 is not a kinase but a DNA-binding protein involved in DNA damage repair	DDR, DNA binding protein, STK19, WHD, crystal structure, dimerization, nucleotide excision repair	STK19 was originally identified as a manganese-dependent serine/threonine-specific protein kinase, but its function has been highly debated. Here, the crystal structure of STK19 revealed that it does not contain a kinase domain, but three intimately packed winged helix (WH) domains. The third WH domain mediated homodimerization and double-stranded DNA binding, both being important for its nuclear localization. STK19 participated in the nucleotide excision repair (NER) and mismatch repair (MMR) pathways by recruiting damage repair factors such as RPA2 and PCNA. STK19 also bound double-stranded RNA through the DNA-binding interface and regulated the expression levels of many mRNAs. Furthermore, STK19 knockdown cells exhibited very slow cell proliferation, which cannot be rescued by dimerization or DNA-binding mutants. Therefore, this work concludes that STK19 is highly unlikely to be a kinase but a DNA/RNA-binding protein critical for DNA damage repair (DDR) and cell proliferation. To prevent further confusions, we renamed this protein as TWH19 (Tandem Winged Helix protein formerly known as STK19).
PXD047766	38253038	Studying the O-GlcNAcome of human placentas using banked tissue samples. 	O-GlcNAcome analysis in human placenta	EthcD, O-GlcNAc, Placenta	O-GlcNAcylation is a dynamic modulator of signaling pathways, equal in magnitude to the widely studied phosphorylation. With the rapid development of tools for its detection at the single protein level, the O-GlcNAc modification rapidly emerged as a novel diagnostic and therapeutic target in human diseases. Yet, mapping the human O-GlcNAcome in various tissues is essential for generating relevant biomarkers. In this study, we used human banked tissue as a sample source to identify O-GlcNAcylated protein targets relevant to human diseases. Using human term placentas, we propose (1) a method to clean frozen banked tissue of blood proteins; (2) an optimized protocol for the enrichment of O-GlcNAcylated proteins using immunoaffinity purification; and (3) a bioinformatic workflow to identify the most promising O-GlcNAc targets. As a proof-of-concept, we used 45 mg of banked placental samples from two pregnancies to generate intracellular protein extracts depleted of blood protein. Then, antibody-based O-GlcNAc enrichment on denatured samples yielded over 2000 unique HexNAc PSMs and 900 unique sites using 300 mug of protein lysate. Due to efficient sample cleanup, we also captured 82 HexNAc proteins with high placental expression. Finally, we provide a bioinformatic tool (CytOVS) to sort the HexNAc proteins based on their cellular localization and extract the most promising O-GlcNAc targets to explore further. To conclude, we provide a simple 3-step workflow to generate a manageable list of O-GlcNAc proteins from human tissue and improve our understanding of O-GlcNAcylation's role in health and diseases.
PXD046182	38253617	MARS an improved de novo peptide candidate selection method for non-canonical antigen target discovery in cancer. 	Cervical Cancer Tissue Immunopeptidomics	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cervical Cancer, HLA-associa, Human Proteome Project, Immunopeptidomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP) (B/D-HPP), high-risk HPV infection	Understanding the nature and extent of non-canonical human leukocyte antigen (HLA) presentation in tumour cells is a priority for target antigen discovery for the development of next generation immunotherapies in cancer. We here employ a de novo mass spectrometric sequencing approach with a refined, MHC-centric analysis strategy to detect non-canonical MHC-associated peptides specific to cancer without any prior knowledge of the target sequence from genomic or RNA sequencing data. Our strategy integrates MHC binding rank, Average local confidence scores, and peptide Retention time prediction for improved de novo candidate Selection; culminating in the machine learning model MARS. We benchmark our model on a large synthetic peptide library dataset and reanalysis of a published dataset of high-quality non-canonical MHC-associated peptide identifications in human cancer. We achieve almost 2-fold improvement for high quality spectral assignments in comparison to de novo sequencing alone with an estimated accuracy of above 85.7% when integrated with a stepwise peptide sequence mapping strategy. Finally, we utilize MARS to detect and validate lncRNA-derived peptides in human cervical tumour resections, demonstrating its suitability to discover novel, immunogenic, non-canonical peptide sequences in primary tumour tissue.
PXD041490	38253771	Proteome-Wide Analysis of Lysine 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation in Aspergillus fumigatus. 	Proteome-wide analysis of Lysine 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation in Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus fumigatus, Lysine 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation, posttranslational modification	Aspergillus fumigatus is the significant causative agent in cases of invasive aspergillosis, leading to a high mortality rate in immunocompromised patients. A comprehensive understanding of its growth patterns and metabolic processes within the host is a critical prerequisite for the development of effective antifungal strategies. Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) is a highly conserved protein posttranslational modifications (PTM) found in various organisms. In this study, we investigate the biological impact of Khib in A. fumigatus. Using a combination of antibody enrichment with the conventional LC-MS/MS method, the pattern of Khib-modification in proteins and their respective sites were analyzed in a wild type strain of A. fumigatus. Our findings revealed 3494 Khib-modified proteins with a total of 18,091 modified sites in this strain. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these Khib-modified proteins participate in a diverse range of cellular functions, spanning various subcellular locations such as ribosome biosynthesis, protein synthesis and nucleocytoplasmic transport. Notably, when compared with other reported eukaryotes, A. fumigatus exhibited consistently higher numbers of Khib-modified proteins, suggesting the potential significance of this modification in this organism. An interesting observation is the prevalence of Khib modifications in most enzymes involved in the ergosterol synthesis pathway. The insights gathered from this study provide new avenue for studying PTM-associated mechanisms in fungal growth and offer potential implication for antifungal drug development.
PXD043203	38254624	Mass Spectrometric ITEM-ONE and ITEM-TWO Analyses Confirm and Refine an Assembled Epitope of an Anti-Pertuzumab Affimer. 	Mass spectrometric ITEM-ONE analysis confirms and refines an assembled affimer binding site on the HER-2 targeting therapeutic antibody Pertuzumab	ITEM, Offline nanoESI-MS, Pertuzumab, affimer	Intact Transition Epitope Mapping-One-step Non-covalent force Exploitation (ITEM-ONE) analysis reveals an assembled epitope on the surface of Pertuzumab, which is recognized by the anti-Pertuzumab affimer 00557_709097. It encompasses amino acid residues NSGGSIYNQRFKGR, which are part of CDR2, as well as residues FTLSVDR, which are located on the variable region of Pertuzumab's heavy chain and together form a surface area of 1381.46 Aa(2). Despite not being part of Pertuzumab's CDR2, the partial sequence FTLSVDR marks a unique proteotypic Pertuzumab peptide. Binding between intact Pertuzumab and the anti-Pertuzumab affimer was further investigated using the Intact Transition Epitope Mapping-Thermodynamic Weak-force Order (ITEM-TWO) approach. Quantitative analysis of the complex dissociation reaction in the gas phase afforded a quasi-equilibrium constant (KD m0g#) of 3.07 x 10(-12). The experimentally determined apparent enthalpy (DeltaHm0g#) and apparent free energy (DeltaGm0g#) of the complex dissociation reaction indicate that the opposite reaction-complex formation-is spontaneous at room temperature. Due to strong binding to Pertuzumab and because of recognizing Pertuzumab's unique partial amino acid sequences, the anti-Pertuzumab affimer 00557_709097 is considered excellently suitable for implementation in Pertuzumab quantitation assays as well as for the accurate therapeutic drug monitoring of Pertuzumab in biological fluids.
PXD022966	38254631	Loss of the DYRK1A Protein Kinase Results in the Reduction in Ribosomal Protein Gene Expression, Ribosome Mass and Reduced Translation. 	The regulation of ribosomal protein genes expression by the protein kinase DYRK1A contributes to the maintenance of ribosome mass and protein translation	DYRK1A, ribosome	Ribosomal proteins (RPs) are evolutionary conserved proteins that are essential for protein translation. RP expression must be tightly regulated to ensure the appropriate assembly of ribosomes and to respond to the growth demands of cells. The elements regulating the transcription of RP genes (RPGs) have been characterized in yeast and Drosophila, yet how cells regulate the production of RPs in mammals is less well understood. Here, we show that a subset of RPG promoters is characterized by the presence of the palindromic TCTCGCGAGA motif and marked by the recruitment of the protein kinase DYRK1A. The presence of DYRK1A at these promoters is associated with the enhanced binding of the TATA-binding protein, TBP, and it is negatively correlated with the binding of the GABP transcription factor, establishing at least two clusters of RPGs that could be coordinately regulated. However, DYRK1A silencing leads to a global reduction in RPGs mRNAs, pointing at DYRK1A activities beyond those dependent on its chromatin association. Significantly, cells in which DYRK1A is depleted have reduced RP levels, fewer ribosomes, reduced global protein synthesis and a smaller size. We therefore propose a novel role for DYRK1A in coordinating the expression of genes encoding RPs, thereby controlling cell growth in mammals.
PXD042732	38255234	Next-Generation Proteomics of Brain Extracellular Vesicles in Schizophrenia Provide New Clues on the Altered Molecular Connectome. 	Next-generation proteomics of brain extracellular vesicles in schizophrenia provide new clues on the altered molecular connectome	Extracellular vesicles, brain antibodies, immunoglobulins, molecular exchange, neuroinflammation, psychiatry, psychotic spectrum, systems biology	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are tiny membranous structures that mediate intercellular communication. The role(s) of these vesicles have been widely investigated in the context of neurological diseases; however, their potential implications in the neuropathology subjacent to human psychiatric disorders remain mostly unknown. Here, by using next-generation discovery-driven proteomics, we investigate the potential role(s) of brain EVs (bEVs) in schizophrenia (SZ) by analyzing these vesicles from the three post-mortem anatomical brain regions: the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus (HC), and caudate (CAU). The results obtained indicate that bEVs from SZ-affected brains contain region-specific proteins that are associated with abnormal GABAergic and glutamatergic transmission. Similarly, these vesicles from the analyzed regions were implicated in synaptic decay, abnormal brain immunity, neuron structural imbalances, and impaired cell homeostasis. Our findings also provide evidence, for the first time, that networks of molecular exchange (involving the PFC, HC, and CAU) are potentially active and mediated by EVs in non-diseased brains. Additionally, these bEV-mediated networks seem to have become partially reversed and largely disrupted in the brains of subjects affected by SZ. Taken as a whole, these results open the door to the uncovering of new biological markers and therapeutic targets, based on the compositions of bEVs, for the benefit of patients affected by SZ and related psychotic disorders.
PXD046871	38256121	Temporal Quantitative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiling of SH-SY5Y and IMR-32 Neuroblastoma Cells during All-Trans-Retinoic Acid-Induced Neuronal Differentiation. 	Temporal Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Profiling of SH-SY5Y and IMR-32 Neuroblastoma Cells During All-trans Retinoic Acid-Induced Neuronal Differentiation	IMR-32, Neuronal Differentiation, Phosphoproteomics, SH-SY5Y, TMT	The human neuroblastoma cell lines SH-SY5Y and IMR-32 can be differentiated into neuron-like phenotypes through treatment with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). After differentiation, these cell lines are extensively utilized as in vitro models to study various aspects of neuronal cell biology. However, temporal and quantitative profiling of the proteome and phosphoproteome of SH-SY5Y and IMR-32 cells throughout ATRA-induced differentiation has been limited. Here, we performed relative quantification of the proteomes and phosphoproteomes of SH-SY5Y and IMR-32 cells at multiple time points during ATRA-induced differentiation. Relative quantification of proteins and phosphopeptides with subsequent gene ontology analysis revealed that several biological processes, including cytoskeleton organization, cell division, chaperone function and protein folding, and one-carbon metabolism, were associated with ATRA-induced differentiation in both cell lines. Furthermore, kinase-substrate enrichment analysis predicted altered activities of several kinases during differentiation. Among these, CDK5 exhibited increased activity, while CDK2 displayed reduced activity. The data presented serve as a valuable resource for investigating temporal protein and phosphoprotein abundance changes in SH-SY5Y and IMR-32 cells during ATRA-induced differentiation.
PXD048072	38256263	Targeted Proteomics Reveals Quantitative Differences in Low-Abundance Glycosyltransferases of Patients with Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation. 	Targeted Proteomics Reveals Quantitative Differences in Low Abundance Glycosyltransferases of Patients with Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation	Congenital disorders of glycosylation, N-glycosylation, endoplasmic reticulum, glycosylation	Protein glycosylation is an essential post-translational modification in all domains of life. Its impairment in humans can result in severe diseases named congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs). Most of the glycosyltransferases (GTs) responsible for proper glycosylation are polytopic membrane proteins that represent challenging targets in proteomics. We established a multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) assay to comprehensively quantify GTs involved in the processes of N-glycosylation and O- and C-mannosylation in the endoplasmic reticulum. High robustness was achieved by using an enriched membrane protein fraction of isotopically labeled HEK 293T cells as an internal protein standard. The analysis of primary skin fibroblasts from eight CDG type I patients with impaired ALG1, ALG2, and ALG11 genes, respectively, revealed a substantial reduction in the corresponding protein levels. The abundance of the other GTs, however, remained unchanged at the transcript and protein levels, indicating that there is no fail-safe mechanism for the early steps of glycosylation in the endoplasmic reticulum. The established MRM assay was shared with the scientific community via the commonly used open source Skyline software environment, including Skyline Batch for automated data analysis. We demonstrate that another research group could easily reproduce all analysis steps, even while using different LC-MS hardware.
PXD044565	38257903	Multi-Omics Strategies to Investigate the Biodegradation of Hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine in Rhodococcus sp. Strain DN22. 	Multi-omics investigation of Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22	Genome sequencing, Metabolomics, RDX biodegradation, Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22	Hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX) is an energetic and persistent explosive with long-lasting properties. Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22 has been discovered to be a microbe capable of degrading RDX. Herein, the complete genome of Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22 was sequenced and analyzed. The entire sequences of genes that encoded the two proteins participating in RDX degradation in Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22 were obtained, and were validated through proteomic data. In addition, few studies have investigated the physiological changes and metabolic pathways occurring within Rhodococcus sp. cells when treated with RDX, particularly through mass spectrometry-based omics. Hence, proteomic and metabolomic analyses were carried out on Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22 with the existence or lack of RDX in the medium. A total of 3186 proteins were identified between the two groups, with 115 proteins being significantly differentially expressed proteins. There were 1056 metabolites identified in total, among which 130 metabolites were significantly different. Through the combined analysis of differential proteomics and metabolomics, KEGG pathways including two-component system, ABC transporters, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, arginine biosynthesis, purine metabolism, nitrogen metabolism, and phosphotransferase system (PTS), were observed to be significantly enriched. These findings provided ponderable perspectives on the physiological alterations and metabolic pathways in Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22, responding to the existence or lack of RDX. This study is anticipated to expand the knowledge of Rhodococcus sp. strain DN22, as well as advancing understanding of microbial degradation.
PXD044692	38258074	Assessing Trans-Inhibition of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 by Calcineurin and/or PPIase Inhibitors and Global Identification of OATP1B1/3-Associated Proteins. 	Yue OATP1B1 protein interaction dataset	ap-ms	Organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 and OATP1B3 are key determinants of drug-drug interactions (DDIs). Various drugs including the calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) cyclosporine A (CsA) exert preincubation-induced trans-inhibitory effects upon OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3 (abbreviated as OATP1B1/3) by unknown mechanism(s). OATP1B1/3 are phosphoproteins; calcineurin, which dephosphorylates and regulates numerous phosphoproteins, has not previously been investigated in the context of preincubation-induced trans-inhibition of OATP1B1/3. Herein, we compare the trans-inhibitory effects exerted on OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 by CsA, the non-analogous CNI tacrolimus, and the non-CNI CsA analogue SCY-635 in transporter-overexpressing human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 stable cell lines. Preincubation (10-60 min) with tacrolimus (1-10 microM) rapidly and significantly reduces OATP1B1- and OATP1B3-mediated transport up to 0.18 +/- 0.03- and 0.20 +/- 0.02-fold compared to the control, respectively. Both CsA and SCY-635 can trans-inhibit OATP1B1, with the inhibitory effects progressively increasing over a 60 min preincubation time. At each equivalent preincubation time, CsA has greater trans-inhibitory effects toward OATP1B1 than SCY-635. Preincubation with SCY-635 for 60 min yielded IC50 of 2.2 +/- 1.4 microM against OATP1B1, which is ~18 fold greater than that of CsA (0.12 +/- 0.04 microM). Furthermore, a proteomics-based screening for protein interactors was used to examine possible proteins and processes contributing to OATP1B1/3 regulation and preincubation-induced inhibition by CNIs and other drugs. A total of 861 and 357 proteins were identified as specifically associated with OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, respectively, including various protein kinases, ubiquitin-related enzymes, the tacrolimus (FK506)-binding proteins FKBP5 and FKBP8, and several known regulatory targets of calcineurin. The current study reports several novel findings that expand our understanding of impaired OATP1B1/3 function; these include preincubation-induced trans-inhibition of OATP1B1/3 by the CNI tacrolimus, greater preincubation-induced inhibition by CsA compared to its non-CNI analogue SCY-635, and association of OATP1B1/3 with various proteins relevant to established and candidate OATP1B1/3 regulatory processes.
PXD024626	38258931	Treatment with sodium butyrate induces autophagy resulting in therapeutic benefits for spinocerebellar ataxia type 3. 	Treatment with sodium butyrate has therapeutic benefits for Machado-Joseph disease through the induction of autophagy	Spinocerebellar ataxia 3, autophagy, flow cytometry, label-free proteomics, machado-joseph disease, microbiota, neurodegeneration, polyQ, sodium butyrate, trinucleotide repeat disease, zebrafish	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3, also known as Machado Joseph disease) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease caused by the expansion of the trinucleotide repeat region within the ATXN3/MJD gene. Mutation of ATXN3 causes formation of ataxin-3 protein aggregates, neurodegeneration, and motor deficits. Here we investigated the therapeutic potential and mechanistic activity of sodium butyrate (SB), the sodium salt of butyric acid, a metabolite naturally produced by gut microbiota, on cultured SH-SY5Y cells and transgenic zebrafish expressing human ataxin-3 containing 84 glutamine (Q) residues to model SCA3. SCA3 SH-SY5Y cells were found to contain high molecular weight ataxin-3 species and detergent-insoluble protein aggregates. Treatment with SB increased the activity of the autophagy protein quality control pathway in the SCA3 cells, decreased the presence of ataxin-3 aggregates and presence of high molecular weight ataxin-3 in an autophagy-dependent manner. Treatment with SB was also beneficial in vivo, improving swimming performance, increasing activity of the autophagy pathway, and decreasing the presence of insoluble ataxin-3 protein species in the transgenic SCA3 zebrafish. Co-treating the SCA3 zebrafish with SB and chloroquine, an autophagy inhibitor, prevented the beneficial effects of SB on zebrafish swimming, indicating that the improved swimming performance was autophagy-dependent. To understand the mechanism by which SB induces autophagy we performed proteomic analysis of protein lysates from the SB-treated and untreated SCA3 SH-SY5Y cells. We found that SB treatment had increased activity of Protein Kinase A and AMPK signaling, with immunoblot analysis confirming that SB treatment had increased levels of AMPK protein and its substrates. Together our findings indicate that treatment with SB can increase activity of the autophagy pathway process and that this has beneficial effects in vitro and in vivo. While our results suggested that this activity may involve activity of a PKA/AMPK-dependent process, this requires further confirmation. We propose that treatment with sodium butyrate warrants further investigation as a potential treatment for neurodegenerative diseases underpinned by mechanisms relating to protein aggregation including SCA3.
PXD047590	38260067	Identification and virtual screening of novel salty peptides from hydrolysate of tilapia by-product by batch molecular docking. 	Determination of high flavor-active peptides in tilapia hydrolysate using LC-MS/MS	salty peptides	Introduction: Tilapia produces a large number of by-products during processing, which contain potentially flavorful peptides. Methods: The application of PyRx software enabled batch molecular docking andscreening of 16 potential salty peptides from 189 peptides identified in the enzymaticdigestion of tilapia by-products. Results: According to sensory analysis, all 16 peptides werepredominantly salty with a threshold of 0.256 - 0.379 mmol/L with some sournessand astringency, among which HLDDALR had the highest salty intensity, followedby VIEPLDIGDDKVR, FPGIPDHL, and DFKSPDDPSRH. I addition, moleculardocking results showed these four core peptides with high salt intensity bound to thesalt receptor TRPV1 mainly via van der Waals interactions, hydrogen bonds, andhydrophobic forces; Arg491, Tyr487, VAL441, and Asp708 were the key sites for thebinding of salty peptides to TRPV1. Therefore, the application of batch moleculardocking using PyRx is effective and economical for the virtual screening of saltypeptides.
PXD051499	38260474	Mixed Alkyl/Aryl Phosphonates Identify Metabolic Serine Hydrolases as Antimalarial Targets. 	Mixed Alkyl/Aryl Phosphonates Identify Metabolic Serine Hydrolases as Antimalarial Targets	Plasmodium, activity-based probes, lipid metabolism, serine hydrolases	Malaria, caused by Plasmodium falciparum, remains a significant health burden. A barrier for developing anti-malarial drugs is the ability of the parasite to rapidly generate resistance. We demonstrated that Salinipostin A (SalA), a natural product, kills parasites by inhibiting multiple lipid metabolizing serine hydrolases, a mechanism with a low propensity for resistance. Given the difficulty of employing natural products as therapeutic agents, we synthesized a library of lipidic mixed alkyl/aryl phosphonates as bioisosteres of SalA. Two constitutional isomers exhibited divergent anti-parasitic potencies which enabled identification of therapeutically relevant targets. We also confirm that this compound kills parasites through a mechanism that is distinct from both SalA and the pan-lipase inhibitor, Orlistat. Like SalA, our compound induces only weak resistance, attributable to mutations in a single protein involved in multidrug resistance. These data suggest that mixed alkyl/aryl phosphonates are a promising, synthetically tractable anti-malarials with a low-propensity to induce resistance.
PXD045935	38261620	Methylation of ciliary dynein motors involves the essential cytosolic assembly factor DNAAF3/PF22. 	Methylation of Ciliary Dynein Motors Involves the Essential Cytosolic Assembly Factor DNAAF3/PF22	PTM, cilia, dynein, methylation	Axonemal dynein motors drive ciliary motility and can consist of up to twenty distinct components with a combined mass of ~2 MDa. In mammals, failure of dyneins to assemble within the axonemal superstructure leads to primary ciliary dyskinesia. Syndromic phenotypes include infertility, rhinitis, severe bronchial conditions, and situs inversus. Nineteen specific cytosolic factors (Dynein Axonemal Assembly Factors; DNAAFs) are necessary for axonemal dynein assembly, although the detailed mechanisms involved remain very unclear. Here, we identify the essential assembly factor DNAAF3 as a structural ortholog of S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methyltransferases. We demonstrate that dynein heavy chains, especially those forming the ciliary outer arms, are methylated on key residues within various nucleotide-binding sites and on microtubule-binding domain helices directly involved in the transition to low binding affinity. These variable modifications, which are generally missing in a Chlamydomonas null mutant for the DNAAF3 ortholog PF22 (DAB1), likely impact on motor mechanochemistry fine-tuning the activities of individual dynein complexes.
PXD039709	38261949	Genetically divergent Francisella philomiragia associated with septic arthritis, Montevideo, Uruguay. 	Genetically divergent Francisella philomiragia associated with septic arthritis, Montevideo, Uruguay	Francisella	Here we report a case of septic arthritis associated with a genetically divergent Francisella philomiragia strain in a patient with chronic rheumatoid arthritis and Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) in Maldonado, Uruguay. In this study mass spectrometry together with whole-genome sequencing using Oxford Nanopore technology allowed for the correct identification of the etiologic agent.
PXD045959	38262093	A quantitative proteomic study reveals oxidative stress and synapse-related proteins contributed to TDCIPP exposure induced neurotoxicity. 	A quantitative proteomic study reveals oxidative stress and synaptic loss contributed to TDCIPP exposure induced memory impairment (2)	Neurotoxicology, Oxidative stress, TDCIPP	Tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCIPP) has been consistently identified in various environmental media and biological specimens. Current understanding of the in vivo toxicities of TDCIPP is limited, especially for potential for neurotoxic and cognitive impairment effects. To better evaluate the potential adverse effect of the chemical on learning and memory, Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were administered TDCIPP via gavage at doses of 40, 120, and 360 mg/kg/day for a period of 90 days. Quantitative proteomic analysis, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting were employed to assess alterations in proteins following exposure to TDCIPP. An open field test and the Morris Water Maze were used to assess anxiety and spatial learning memory capacity. Administration of TDCIPP induced anxiety and cognitive impairments in rats. Additionally, a noteworthy decrease in the number of neurons was observed in the hippocampal CA3 and dentate gyrus (DG) regions. Proteomic and bioinformatic analyses revealed dysregulation of numerous hippocampal proteins, particularly those associated with synapses (PKN1) or oxidative stress (GSTM4, NQO1, and BMAL1), which was further confirmed by Western blot analysis. In sum, the cognitive impairment of rats caused by TDCIPP exposure was associated with dysregulation of synaptic and oxidative stress-related proteins.
PXD046185	38263143	Exosomal secreted SCIMP regulates communication between macrophages and neutrophils in pneumonia. 	Proteomics analysing the exosomes extratced from the BALF of the E.coli or LPS induced acute lung injury (ALI) model	acute lung injury, exosomal secreted SCIMP, formyl peptide receptors, neutrophil, pneumonia	In pneumonia, the deficient or delayed pathogen clearance can lead to pathogen proliferation and subsequent overactive immune responses, inducing acute lung injury (ALI). While screening human genome coding genes using our peripheral blood cell chemotactic platform, we unexpectedly find SLP adaptor and CSK interacting membrane protein (SCIMP), a protein with neutrophil chemotactic activity secreted during ALI. However, the specific role of SCIMP in ALI remains unclear. In this study, we investigate the secretion of SCIMP in exosomes (SCIMP(exo)) by macrophages after bacterial stimulation, both in vitro and in vivo. We observe a significant increase in the levels of SCIMP(exo) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and serum of pneumonia patients. We also find that bronchial perfusion with SCIMP(exo) or SCIMP N-terminal peptides increases the survival rate of the ALI model. This occurs due to the chemoattraction and activation of peripheral neutrophils dependent on formyl peptide receptor 1/2 (FPR1/2). Conversely, exosome suppressors and FPR1/2 antagonists decrease the survival rate in the lethal ALI model. Scimp-deficient and Fpr1/2-deficient mice also have lower survival rates and shorter survival times than wild-type mice. However, bronchial perfusion of SCIMP rescues Scimp-deficient mice but not Fpr1/2-deficient mice. Collectively, our findings suggest that the macrophage-SCIMP-FPRs-neutrophil axis plays a vital role in the innate immune process underlying ALI.
PXD013758	38263327	Mitochondrial translocation of TFEB regulates complex I and inflammation. 	TFEB Immunoprecipitation And Proteome	IP, TFEB	TFEB is a master regulator of autophagy, lysosome biogenesis, mitochondrial metabolism, and immunity that works primarily through transcription controlled by cytosol-to-nuclear translocation. Emerging data indicate additional regulatory interactions at the surface of organelles such as lysosomes. Here we show that TFEB has a non-transcriptional role in mitochondria, regulating the electron transport chain complex I to down-modulate inflammation. Proteomics analysis reveals extensive TFEB co-immunoprecipitation with several mitochondrial proteins, whose interactions are disrupted upon infection with S. Typhimurium. High resolution confocal microscopy and biochemistry confirms TFEB localization in the mitochondrial matrix. TFEB translocation depends on a conserved N-terminal TOMM20-binding motif and is enhanced by mTOR inhibition. Within the mitochondria, TFEB and protease LONP1 antagonistically co-regulate complex I, reactive oxygen species and the inflammatory response. Consequently, during infection, lack of TFEB specifically in the mitochondria exacerbates the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, contributing to innate immune pathogenesis.
PXD047505	38263378	Heat inactivation of foetal bovine serum performed after EV-depletion influences the proteome of cell-derived extracellular vesicles. 	Heat inactivation of foetal bovine serum performed after EV-depletion influences the proteome of cell-derived extracellular vesicles	EV depletion by ultracentrifugation, FBS heat-inactivation, extracellular vesicles, foetal bovine serum (FBS)	The release of extracellular vesicles (EVs) in cell cultures as well as their molecular cargo can be influenced by cell culture conditions such as the presence of foetal bovine serum (FBS). Although several studies have evaluated the effect of removing FBS-derived EVs by ultracentrifugation (UC), less is known about the influence of FBS heat inactivation (HI) on the cell-derived EVs. To assess this, three protocols based on different combinations of EV depletion by UC and HI were evaluated, including FBS ultracentrifuged but not heat inactivated (no-HI FBS), FBS heat inactivated before EV depletion (HI-before EV-depl FBS), and FBS heat inactivated after EV depletion (HI-after EV-depl FBS). We isolated large (L-EVs) and small EVs (S-EVs) from FBS treated in the three different ways, and we found that the S-EV pellet from HI-after EV-depl FBS was larger than the S-EV pellet from no-HI FBS and HI-before EV-depl FBS. Transmission electron microscopy, protein quantification, and particle number evaluation showed that HI-after EV-depl significantly increased the protein amount of S-EVs but had no significant effect on L-EVs. Consequently, the protein quantity of S-EVs isolated from three cell lines cultured in media supplemented with HI-after EV-depl FBS was significantly increased. Quantitative mass spectrometry analysis of FBS-derived S-EVs showed that the EV protein content was different when FBS was HI after EV depletion compared to EVs isolated from no-HI FBS and HI-before EV-depl FBS. Moreover, we show that several quantified proteins could be ascribed to human origin, thus demonstrating that FBS bovine proteins can mistakenly be attributed to human cell-derived EVs. We conclude that HI of FBS performed after EV depletion results in changes in the proteome, with molecules that co-isolate with EVs and can contaminate EVs when used in subsequent cell cultures. Our recommendation is, therefore, to always perform HI of FBS prior to EV depletion.
PXD044055	38265689	Metabolic adaptations of Microbacterium sediminis YLB-01 in deep-sea high-pressure environments. 	Proteomics analysis of Microbacterium sediminis YLB-01	Microbacterium sediminis YLB-01, high pressure, proteomic analysis	The deep-sea environment is an extremely difficult habitat for microorganisms to survive in due to its intense hydrostatic pressure. However, the mechanisms by which these organisms adapt to such extreme conditions remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the metabolic adaptations of Microbacterium sediminis YLB-01, a cold and stress-tolerant microorganism isolated from deep-sea sediments, in response to high-pressure conditions. YLB-01 cells were cultured at normal atmospheric pressure and 28 C until they reached the stationary growth phase. Subsequently, the cells were exposed to either normal pressure or high pressure (30 MPa) at 4 C for 7 days. Using NMR-based metabolomic and proteomic analyses of YLB-01 cells exposed to high-pressure conditions, we observed significant metabolic changes in several metabolic pathways, including amino acid, carbohydrate, and lipid metabolism. In particular, the high-pressure treatment stimulates cell division and triggers the accumulation of UDP-glucose, a critical factor in cell wall formation. This finding highlights the adaptive strategies used by YLB-01 cells to survive in the challenging high-pressure environments of the deep sea. Specifically, we discovered that YLB-01 cells regulate amino acid metabolism, promote carbohydrate metabolism, enhance cell wall synthesis, and improve cell membrane fluidity in response to high pressure. These adaptive mechanisms play essential roles in supporting the survival and growth of YLB-01 in high-pressure conditions. Our study offers valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the metabolic adaptation of deep-sea microorganisms to high-pressure environments. KEY POINTS: * NMR-based metabolomic and proteomic analyses were conducted on Microbacterium sediminis YLB-01 to investigate the significant alterations in several metabolic pathways in response to high-pressure treatment. * YLB-01 cells used adaptive strategies (such as regulated amino acid metabolism, promoted carbohydrate metabolism, enhanced cell wall synthesis, and improved cell membrane fluidity) to survive in the challenging high-pressure environment of the deep sea. * High-pressure treatment stimulated cell division and triggered the accumulation of UDP-glucose, a critical factor in cell wall formation, in Microbacterium sediminis YLB-01 cells.
PXD044927	38266577	Hyperglycemia triggers RyR2-dependent alterations of mitochondrial calcium homeostasis in response to cardiac ischemia-reperfusion: Key role of DRP1 activation. 	Shotgun proteomics of mitochondria from hearts of rats submitted to ischemia-reperfusion in normoglycemia and hyperglycemia conditions	Shotgun proteomics, hyperglycemia, ischemia-reperfusion, rattus norvegicus	Hyperglycemia increases the heart sensitivity to ischemia-reperfusion (IR), but the underlying cellular mechanisms remain unclear. Mitochondrial dynamics (the processes that govern mitochondrial morphology and their interactions with other organelles, such as the reticulum), has emerged as a key factor in the heart vulnerability to IR. However, it is unknown whether mitochondrial dynamics contributes to hyperglycemia deleterious effect during IR. We hypothesized that (i) the higher heart vulnerability to IR in hyperglycemic conditions could be explained by hyperglycemia effect on the complex interplay between mitochondrial dynamics, Ca(2+) homeostasis, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production; and (ii) the activation of DRP1, a key regulator of mitochondrial dynamics, could play a central role. Using transmission electron microscopy and proteomic analysis, we showed that the interactions between sarcoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria and mitochondrial fission were increased during IR in isolated rat hearts perfused with a hyperglycemic buffer compared with hearts perfused with a normoglycemic buffer. In isolated mitochondria and cardiomyocytes, hyperglycemia increased mitochondrial ROS production and Ca(2+) uptake. This was associated with higher RyR2 instability. These results could contribute to explain the early mPTP activation in mitochondria from isolated hearts perfused with a hyperglycemic buffer and in hearts from streptozotocin-treated rats (to increase the blood glucose). DRP1 inhibition by Mdivi-1 during the hyperglycemic phase and before IR induction, normalized Ca(2+) homeostasis, ROS production, mPTP activation, and reduced the heart sensitivity to IR in streptozotocin-treated rats. In conclusion, hyperglycemia-dependent DRP1 activation results in higher reticulum-mitochondria calcium exchange that contribute to the higher heart vulnerability to IR.
PXD046392	38266916	Modeling flexible protein structure with AlphaFold2 and cross-linking mass spectrometry. 	Modeling flexible protein structure with AlphaFold2 and cross-linking mass spectrometry	AlphaFold2, Crosslinks, IDR, Monolinks, flexible protein	We propose a pipeline that combines AlphaFold2 (AF2) and crosslinking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) to model the structure of proteins with multiple conformations. The pipeline consists of two main steps: ensemble generation using AF2, and conformer selection using XL-MS data. For conformer selection, we developed two scores - the monolink probability score (MP) and the crosslink probability score (XLP), both of which are based on residue depth from the protein surface. We benchmarked MP and XLP on a large dataset of decoy protein structures, and showed that our scores outperform previously developed scores. We then tested our methodology on three proteins having an open and closed conformation in the Protein Data Bank: Complement component 3 (C3), luciferase, and glutamine-binding periplasmic protein (QBP), first generating ensembles using AF2, which were then screened for the open and closed conformations using experimental XL-MS data. In five out of six cases, the most accurate model within the AF2 ensembles - or a conformation within 1 Aa of this model - was identified using crosslinks, as assessed through the XLP score. In the remaining case, only the monolinks (assessed through the MP score) successfully identified the open conformation of QBP, and these results were further improved by including the "occupancy" of the monolinks. This serves as a compelling proof-of-concept for the effectiveness of monolinks. In contrast, the AF2 assessment score (pTM) was only able to identify the most accurate conformation in two out of six cases. Our results highlight the complementarity of AF2 with experimental methods like XL-MS, with the MP and XLP scores providing reliable metrics to assess the quality of the predicted models. The MP and XLP scoring functions mentioned above are available at https://gitlab.com/topf-lab/xlms-tools.
PXD048087	38267699	Mobilization of cholesterol induces the transition from quiescence to growth in Caenorhabditis elegans through steroid hormone and mTOR signaling. 	Mobilization of cholesterol induces the transition from quiescence to growth in Caenorhabditis elegans through steroid hormone and mTOR signaling	C.elegans, L3, dauer	Recovery from the quiescent developmental stage called dauer is an essential process in C. elegans and provides an excellent model to understand how metabolic transitions contribute to developmental plasticity. Here we show that cholesterol bound to the small secreted proteins SCL-12 or SCL-13 is sequestered in the gut lumen during the dauer state. Upon recovery from dauer, bound cholesterol undergoes endocytosis into lysosomes of intestinal cells, where SCL-12 and SCL-13 are degraded and cholesterol is released. Free cholesterol activates mTORC1 and is used for the production of dafachronic acids. This leads to promotion of protein synthesis and growth, and a metabolic switch at the transcriptional level. Thus, mobilization of sequestered cholesterol stores is the key event for transition from quiescence to growth, and cholesterol is the major signaling molecule in this process.
PXD036650	38268604	A label free chemoproteomic-based platform to disclose cannabidiol molecular mechanism of action on chronic myelogenous leukemia cancer cells. 	Identification of Cannabidiol interactome in K562 cells	CBD, DARTS, K562 cells, TOP2A, chemoproteomics, t-LiP-MRM	The discovery of the interactome of cannabidiol (CBD), a non-psychoactive cannabinoid from Cannabis sativa L., has been here performed on chronic myelogenous leukemia cancer cells, using an optimized chemo-proteomic stage, which links Drug Affinity Responsive Target Stability with Limited Proteolysis Multiple Reaction Monitoring approaches. The obtained results showed the ability of CBD to target simultaneously some potential protein partners, corroborating its well-known poly-pharmacology activity. In human chronic myelogenous leukemia K562 cancer cells, the most fascinating protein partner was identified as the 116 kDa U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein element called EFTUD2, which fits with the spliceosome complex. The binding mode of this oncogenic protein with CBD was clarified using mass spectrometry-based and in silico analysis.
PXD040407	38270553	Proline-directed yeast and human MAP kinases phosphorylate the Dot1p/DOT1L histone H3K79 methyltransferase. 	H3K79 methyltransferase Dot1p/DOT1L is phosphorylated by proline-directed MAP kinases Hog1p and p38/MAPK11	histone methyltransferase, phosphorylation	Disruptor of telomeric silencing 1 (Dot1p) is an exquisitely conserved histone methyltransferase and is the sole enzyme responsible for H3K79 methylation in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It has been shown to be highly phosphorylated in vivo; however, the upstream kinases that act on Dot1p are almost entirely unknown in yeast and all other eukaryotes. Here, we used in vitro and in vivo kinase discovery approaches to show that mitogen-activated protein kinase HOG1 (Hog1p) is a bona fide kinase of the Dot1p methyltransferase. In vitro kinase assays showed that Hog1p phosphorylates Dot1p at multiple sites, including at several proline-adjacent sites that are consistent with known Hog1p substrate preferences. The activity of Hog1p was specifically enhanced at these proline-adjacent sites on Dot1p upon Hog1p activation by the osmostress-responsive MAP kinase kinase PBS2 (Pbs2p). Genomic deletion of HOG1 reduced phosphorylation at specific sites on Dot1p in vivo, providing further evidence for Hog1p kinase activity on Dot1p in budding yeast cells. Phenotypic analysis of knockout and phosphosite mutant yeast strains revealed the importance of Hog1p-catalysed phosphorylation of Dot1p for cellular responses to ultraviolet-induced DNA damage. In mammalian systems, this kinase-substrate relationship was found to be conserved: human DOT1L (the ortholog of yeast Dot1p) can be phosphorylated by the proline-directed kinase p38beta (also known as MAPK11; the ortholog of yeast Hog1p) at multiple sites in vitro. Taken together, our findings establish Hog1p and p38beta as newly identified upstream kinases of the Dot1p/DOT1L H3K79 methyltransferase enzymes in eukaryotes.
PXD048060	38270585	Ubiquitin-Derived Fragment as a Peptide Linker for the Efficient Cleavage of a Target Protein from a Degron. 	Proximity labeling of proteins involved in the mechanism of excisable DD	TurboID, destabilizing domain (DD)	The chemogenetic control of cellular protein stability using degron tags is a powerful experimental strategy in biomedical research. However, this technique requires permanent fusion of the degron to a target protein, which may interfere with the proper function of the protein. Here, we report a peptide fragment from the carboxyl terminus of ubiquitin as a cleavable linker that exhibits the slow but efficient cleavage of a degron tag via cellular deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs). We designed a fusion protein consisting of a cleavable linker and a destabilizing domain (DD), which conditionally controls the expression and release of a target protein in a ligand-induced state, allowing the free unmodified protein to perform its function. Insertion of an AGIA epitope at the carboxyl terminus of the linker made space for the DUBs to access the site to assist the cleavage reaction when the amino terminus of the target protein caused steric hindrance. The developed system, termed a cleavable degron using ubiquitin-derived linkers (c-DUB), provides robust and tunable regulation of target proteins in their native forms. The c-DUB system is a useful tool for the regulation of proteins that have terminal sites that are essential for the proper localization and function. In addition, a mechanistic investigation using proximity labeling showed that DUBs associate with the refolded DD to reverse ubiquitination, suggesting a cellular surveillance system for distinguishing the refolded DD from misfolded proteins. The c-DUB method may benefit from this machinery so that DUBs subsequently cleave the neighboring linker.
PXD022982	38272115	Epigenetic mechanisms Histone Deacetylase dependent regulate the Glioblastoma angiogenic matrisome and disrupt endothelial cell behavior in vitro. 	Inhibition of the Histone Deacetylase activity impacts on Glioblastoma secretome and disrupts the molecular signature of the Tumor Extracellular Matrix	Glioblastoma secretome, Histone Deacetylase activity	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive brain tumor and different efforts have been employed in the search for new drugs and therapeutic protocols for GBM. Epitranscriptomics has shed light on new druggable Epigenetic therapies specifically designed to modulate GBM biology and behavior such as Histone Deacetylase inhibitors (iHDAC). Although the effects of iHDAC on GBM have been largely explored, there is a lack of information on the underlaying mechanisms HDAC-dependent that modulate the repertoire of GBM secreted molecules focusing on the set of Extracellular Matrix (ECM) associated proteins, the Matrisome, that may impact the surrounding tumor microenvironment. To acquire a better comprehension of the impacts of HDAC activity on the GBM Matrisome, we studied the alterations on the Matrisome-associated ECM regulators, Core Matrisome ECM glycoproteins, ECM-affiliated proteins and Proteoglycans upon HDAC inhibition in vitro as well as their relationship with glioma pathophysiological/clinical features and angiogenesis. For this, U87MG GBM cells were treated for with iHDAC or vehicle (control) and the whole secretome was processed by Mass Spectrometry NANOLC-MS/MS. In silico analyses revealed that proteins associated to the Angiogenic Matrisome (AngioMatrix), including Decorin, ADAM10, ADAM12 and ADAM15 were differentially regulated in iHDAC versus control secretome. Interestingly, genes coding for the Matrisome proteins differentially regulated were found mutated in patients and were correlated to glioma pathophysiological/clinical features. In vitro functional assays, using HBMEC endothelial cells exposed to the secretome of control or iHDAC treated GBM cells, coupled to 2D and 3D GBM cell culture system, showed impaired migratory capacity of endothelial cells and disrupted tubulogenesis in a Fibronectin and VEGF independent fashion. Collectively, our study provides understanding of epigenetic mechanisms HDAC-dependent to key Matrisomel proteins that may contribute to identify new druggable Epigenetic therapies or gliomagenesis biomarkers with relevant implications to improve therapeutic protocols for this malignancy.
PXD044353	38272220	Genotype-dependent N-glycosylation and newly exposed O-glycosylation affect plasmin-induced cleavage of histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG). 	Genotype-dependent N-glycosylation and newly discovered O-glycosylation affecting HRG plasmin cleavage	N-glycosylation, O-glycosylation, glycoproteomics, histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG), plasmin cleavage	Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) is an abundant plasma protein harboring at least three N-glycosylation sites. HRG integrates many biological processes such as coagulation, antiangiogenic activity, immune complex clearance and pathogen clearance. Importantly, HRG is known to exhibit five genetic variants with minor allele frequencies of more than 10%, meaning these all exist with substantial frequencies in the human population. Among them, Pro204Ser can induce a fourth N-glycosylation site at Asn202. Considerable efforts have been made to reveal the biological function of HRG, whereas data on HRG glycosylation is scarcer. To close this knowledge gap, we used C18-based LC-MS/MS to study the glycosylation characteristics of six HRG samples from different sources. We used endogenous HRG purified from human plasma and compared its glycosylation to that of recombinant HRG produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells or human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells lines, targeting distinct genotypic isoforms. In endogenous plasma HRG, every N-glycosylation site was occupied predominantly with a sialylated diantennary complex-type glycan. In contrast, in the recombinant HRGs, all glycans showed different antennarities, sialylation and core-fucosylation, as well as the presence of oligomannose glycans, LacdiNAcs and antennary fucosylation. Furthermore, we observed two previously unreported O-glycosylation sites in HRG on residues Thr273 and Thr274. These sites together showed a more than 90% glycan occupancy in all HRG samples studied. To investigate the potential relevance of HRG glycosylation, we assessed the plasmin-induced cleavage of HRG under various conditions. These analyses revealed that the sialylation of the O-glycans and N-glycans, as well as the genotype-dependent N-glycosylation, significantly influenced the kinetics and specificity of plasmin-induced cleavage of HRG.
PXD048242	38272223	Fecal-adherent mucus is a non-invasive source of primary human MUC2 for structural and functional characterization in health and disease. 	Proteomic analysis of fecal Mucin-2 from humans and mice	Fecal Mucin-2	The O-glycoprotein Mucin-2 (MUC2) forms the protective colon mucus layer. While animal models have demonstrated the importance of Muc2, few studies have explored human MUC2 in similar depth. Recent studies have revealed that secreted MUC2 is bound to human feces. We hypothesized human fecal MUC2 (HF-MUC2) was accessible for purification and downstream structural and functional characterization. We tested this via histologic and quantitative imaging on human fecal sections; extraction from feces for proteomic and O-glycomic characterization; and functional studies via growth and metabolic assays in vitro. Quantitative imaging of solid fecal sections showed a continuous mucus layer of varying thickness along human fecal sections with barrier functions intact. Lectin profiling showed HF-MUC2 bound several lectins but was weak to absent for Ulex europaeus 1 (alpha1,2 fucose-binding) and Sambucus nigra agglutinin (alpha2,6 sialic acid-binding), and did not have obvious b1/b2 barrier layers. HF-MUC2 separated by electrophoresis showed high molecular weight glycoprotein bands (~1-2 MDa). Proteomics and Western analysis confirmed the enrichment of MUC2 and potential MUC2-associated proteins in HF-MUC2 extracts. MUC2 O-glycomics revealed diverse fucosylation, moderate sialylation, and little sulfation vs. porcine colonic MUC2 and murine fecal Muc2. O-glycans were functional and supported the growth of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron (B. theta) and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production in vitro. MUC2 could be similarly analyzed from inflammatory bowel disease stools, which displayed an altered glycomic profile and differential growth and SCFA production by B. theta vs. healthy samples. These studies describe a new non-invasive platform for human MUC2 characterization in health and disease.
PXD044760	38272982	Neddylation of insulin receptor substrate acts as a bona fide regulator of insulin signaling and its implications for cancer cell migration. 	Neddylation of Insulin receptor substrate acts as a bona fide suppressor for cancer cell migration		Irregularities in insulin signaling have significantly increased the risk of various cancers, yet the precise underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Within our study, we observed that inhibiting neddylation enhances cancer cell migration across different cancer types by activating both insulin receptor substrates 1 and 2 (IRS1 and IRS2), along with the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Notably, in the context of high-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) patients, whether they had type 2 diabetes mellitus or not, IRS1 and IRS2 displayed a parallel relationship with each other while exhibiting an inverse relationship with NEDD8. We also identified C-CBL as an E3 ligase responsible for neddylating IRS1 and IRS2, with clinical evidence further confirming a reciprocal relationship between C-CBL and pAKT, thereby reinforcing the tumor suppressive role of C-CBL. Altogether, these findings suggest that neddylation genuinely participates in IRS1 and IRS2-dependent insulin signaling, effectively suppressing cancer cell migration. Thus, caution is advised when considering neddylation inhibitors as a treatment option for cancer patients, particularly those presenting with insulin signaling dysregulations linked to conditions like obesity-related type 2 diabetes or hyperinsulinemia.
PXD033956	38273040	Integrative modeling uncovers p21-driven drug resistance and prioritizes therapies for PIK3CA-mutant breast cancer. 	Phosphoproteomics of BYL719 (alpelisib)-Resistant T47D Human Breast Cancer Cell Line	BYL719, PI3K, Targeted therapies, alpelisib, human breast cancer, phosphoproteomics	Utility of PI3Kalpha inhibitors like BYL719 is limited by the acquisition of genetic and non-genetic mechanisms of resistance which cause disease recurrence. Several combination therapies based on PI3K inhibition have been proposed, but a way to systematically prioritize them for breast cancer treatment is still missing. By integrating published and in-house studies, we have developed in silico models that quantitatively capture dynamics of PI3K signaling at the network-level under a BYL719-sensitive versus BYL719 resistant-cell state. Computational predictions show that signal rewiring to alternative components of the PI3K pathway promote resistance to BYL719 and identify PDK1 as the most effective co-target with PI3Kalpha rescuing sensitivity of resistant cells to BYL719. To explore whether PI3K pathway-independent mechanisms further contribute to BYL719 resistance, we performed phosphoproteomics and found that selection of high levels of the cell cycle regulator p21 unexpectedly promoted drug resistance in T47D cells. Functionally, high p21 levels favored repair of BYL719-induced DNA damage and bypass of the associated cellular senescence. Importantly, targeted inhibition of the check-point inhibitor CHK1 with MK-8776 effectively caused death of p21-high T47D cells, thus establishing a new vulnerability of BYL719-resistant breast cancer cells. Together, our integrated studies uncover hidden molecular mediators causing resistance to PI3Kalpha inhibition and provide a framework to prioritize combination therapies for PI3K-mutant breast cancer.
PXD047936	38273161	The population context is a driver of the heterogeneous response of epithelial cells to interferons. 	Population context drives cell-to-cell variability in interferon response in epithelial cells		Isogenic cells respond in a heterogeneous manner to interferon. Using a micropatterning approach combined with high-content imaging and spatial analyses, we characterized how the population context (position of a cell with respect to neighboring cells) of epithelial cells affects their response to interferons. We identified that cells at the edge of cellular colonies are more responsive than cells embedded within colonies. We determined that this spatial heterogeneity in interferon response resulted from the polarized basolateral interferon receptor distribution, making cells located in the center of cellular colonies less responsive to ectopic interferon stimulation. This was conserved across cell lines and primary cells originating from epithelial tissues. Importantly, cells embedded within cellular colonies were not protected from viral infection by apical interferon treatment, demonstrating that the population context-driven heterogeneous response to interferon influences the outcome of viral infection. Our data highlights that the behavior of isolated cells does not directly translate to their behavior in a population, placing the population context as one important factor influencing heterogeneity during interferon response in epithelial cells.
PXD045701	38275103	Cleavage efficiency of the intramembrane protease gamma-secretase is reduced by the palmitoylation of a substrate's transmembrane domain. 	Identification of naturally short gamma-secretase substrates	DAPT, gamma-secretase, intramembrane protease	The intramembrane protease gamma-secretase has broad physiological functions, but also contributes to Notch-dependent tumors and Alzheimer's disease. While gamma-secretase cleaves numerous membrane proteins, only few nonsubstrates are known. Thus, a fundamental open question is how gamma-secretase distinguishes substrates from nonsubstrates and whether sequence-based features or post-translational modifications of membrane proteins contribute to substrate recognition. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified several type I membrane proteins with short ectodomains that were inefficiently or not cleaved by gamma-secretase, including 'pituitary tumor-transforming gene 1-interacting protein' (PTTG1IP). To analyze the mechanism preventing cleavage of these putative nonsubstrates, we used the validated substrate FN14 as a backbone and replaced its transmembrane domain (TMD), where gamma-cleavage occurs, with the one of nonsubstrates. Surprisingly, some nonsubstrate TMDs were efficiently cleaved in the FN14 backbone, demonstrating that a cleavable TMD is necessary, but not sufficient for cleavage by gamma-secretase. Cleavage efficiencies varied by up to 200-fold. Other TMDs, including that of PTTG1IP, were still barely cleaved within the FN14 backbone. Pharmacological and mutational experiments revealed that the PTTG1IP TMD is palmitoylated, which prevented cleavage by gamma-secretase. We conclude that the TMD sequence of a membrane protein and its palmitoylation can be key factors determining substrate recognition and cleavage efficiency by gamma-secretase.
PXD047333	38275318	Antibiofilm and Antivirulence Properties of 6-Polyaminosteroid Derivatives against Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria. 	Antibiofilm and antivirulence properties of 6-polyaminosteroid derivatives against antibiotic-resistant bacteria	6-aminosteroid derivatives, antibiofilm, antivirulence, pyocyanin	The emergence of multi-drug resistant pathogens is a major public health problem, leading us to rethink and innovate our bacterial control strategies. Here, we explore the antibiofilm and antivirulence activities of nineteen 6-polyaminosterol derivatives (squalamine-based), presenting a modulation of their polyamine side chain on four major pathogens, i.e., carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii (CRAB) and P. aeruginosa (CRPA), methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), and vancomycin-resistant E. faecium (VRE) strains. We screened the effect of these derivatives on biofilm formation and eradication. Derivatives 4e (for CRAB, VRE, and MRSA) and 4f (for all the strains) were the most potent ones and displayed activities as good as those of conventional antibiotics. We also identified 11 compounds able to decrease by more than 40% the production of pyocyanin, a major virulence factor of P. aeruginosa. We demonstrated that 4f treatment acts against bacterial infections in Galleria mellonella and significantly prolonged larvae survival (from 50% to 80%) after 24 h of CRAB, VRE, and MRSA infections. As shown by proteomic studies, 4f triggered distinct cellular responses depending on the bacterial species but essentially linked to cell envelope. Its interesting antibiofilm and antivirulence properties make it a promising a candidate for use in therapeutics.
PXD047448	38275864	Mapping the Anti-Cancer Activity of alpha-Connexin Carboxyl-Terminal (aCT1) Peptide in Resistant HER2+ Breast Cancer. 	Mapping the anti-cancer activity of alpha-connexin carboxyl-terminal (aCT1) peptide in resistant HER2+ breast cancer	Connexin 43, HER2, breast cancer, gap junction	Connexin 43 (Cx43) is a protein encoded by the GJA1 gene and is a component of cell membrane structures called gap junctions, which facilitate intercellular communication. Prior evidence indicates that elevated GJA1 expression in the HER2-positive (HER2+) subtype of breast cancer is associated with poor prognosis. Prior evidence also suggests that HER2+ breast cancers that have become refractory to HER2-targeted agents have a loss of Cx43 gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC). In this study, a Cx43-targeted agent called alpha-connexin carboxyl-terminal peptide (aCT1) is examined to determine whether GJIC can be rescued in refractory HER2+ breast cancer cells. A proposed mechanism of action for aCT1 is binding to the tight junction protein Zonal Occludens-1 (ZO-1). However, the true scope of activity for aCT1 has not been explored. In this study, mass spectrometry proteomic analysis is used to determine the breadth of aCT1-interacting proteins. The NanoString nCounter Breast Cancer 360 panel is also used to examine the effect of aCT1 on cancer signaling in HER2+ breast cancer cells. Findings from this study show a dynamic range of binding partners for aCT1, many of which regulate gene expression and RNA biology. nCounter analysis shows that a number of pathways are significantly impacted by aCT1, including upregulation of apoptotic factors, leading to the prediction and demonstration that aCT1 can boost the cell death effects of cisplatin and lapatinib in HER2+ breast cancer cells that have become resistant to HER2-targeted agents.
PXD037885	38278951	D6PK plasma membrane polarity requires a repeated CXX(X)P motif and PDK1-dependent phosphorylation. 	D6 PROTEIN KINASE plasma membrane polarity is dependent on a repeated CXX(X)P motif and serine phosphorylation	D6 protein kinase, phosphorylation, polarity	D6 PROTEIN KINASE (D6PK) is a polarly localized plasma-membrane-associated kinase from Arabidopsis thaliana that activates polarly distributed PIN-FORMED auxin transporters. D6PK moves rapidly to and from the plasma membrane, independent of its PIN-FORMED targets. The middle D6PK domain, an insertion between kinase subdomains VII and VIII, is required and sufficient for association and polarity of the D6PK plasma membrane. How D6PK polarity is established and maintained remains to be shown. Here we show that cysteines from repeated middle domain CXX(X)P motifs are S-acylated and required for D6PK membrane association. While D6PK S-acylation is not detectably regulated during intracellular transport, phosphorylation of adjacent serine residues, in part in dependence on the upstream 3-PHOSPHOINOSITIDE-DEPENDENT PROTEIN KINASE, promotes D6PK transport, controls D6PK residence time at the plasma membrane and prevents its lateral diffusion. We thus identify new mechanisms for the regulation of D6PK plasma membrane interaction and polarity.
PXD051875	38279312	Proteome Analysis of Serum Purified Using Solanum tuberosum and Lycopersicon esculentum Lectins. 	Proteome analysis of serum proteins enriched by MOA and PSL1a	Marasmius oreades agglutinin, Polyporus squamosus lectin, Serum proteome, biomarker	Serum and plasma exhibit a broad dynamic range of protein concentrations, posing challenges for proteome analysis. Various technologies have been developed to reduce this complexity, including high-abundance depletion methods utilizing antibody columns, extracellular vesicle enrichment techniques, and trace protein enrichment using nanobead cocktails. Here, we employed lectins to address this, thereby extending the scope of biomarker discovery in serum or plasma using a novel approach. We enriched serum proteins using 37 different lectins and subjected them to LC-MS/MS analysis with data-independent acquisition. Solanum tuberosum lectin (STL) and Lycopersicon esculentum lectin (LEL) enabled the detection of more serum proteins than the other lectins. STL and LEL bind to N-acetylglucosamine oligomers, emphasizing the significance of capturing these oligomer-binding proteins when analyzing serum trace proteins. Combining STL and LEL proved more effective than using them separately, allowing us to identify over 3000 proteins from serum through single-shot proteome analysis. We applied the STL/LEL trace-protein enrichment method to the sera of systemic lupus erythematosus model mice. This revealed differences in >1300 proteins between the systemic lupus erythematosus model and control mouse sera, underscoring the utility of this method for biomarker discovery.
PXD046972	38280152	Transcriptome Sequencing and Mass Spectrometry Reveal Genes Involved in the Non-mendelian Inheritance-Mediated Feather Growth Rate in Chicken. 	Transcriptome sequencingand mass spectrometry reveal genes involved in the feather growth rate not conforming to Mendelian inheritance in chicken		The feather growth rate in chickens included early and late feathering. We attempted to characterize the genes and pathways associated with the feather growth rate in chickens that are not in agreement with Mendelian inheritance. Gene expression profiles in the hair follicle tissues of late-feathering cocks (LC), early-feathering cocks (EC), late-feathering hens (LH), and early-feathering hens (EH) were acquired using RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), mass spectrometry (MS), and quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). A total of 188 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were ascertained in EC vs. LC and 538 DEGs were identified in EH vs. LH. We observed that 14 up-regulated genes and 9 down-regulated genes were screened both in EC vs. LC and EH vs. LH. MS revealed that 41 and 138 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were screened out in EC vs. LC and EH vs. LH, respectively. Moreover, these DEGs and DEPs were enriched in multiple feather-related pathways, including JAK-STAT, MAPK, WNT, TGF-beta, and calcium signaling pathways. qRT-PCR assay showed that the expression of WNT8A was decreased in LC compared with EC, while ALK and GRM4 expression were significantly up-regulated in EH relative to LH. This study helps to elucidate the potential mechanism of the feather growth rate in chickens that do not conform to genetic law.
PXD045079	38280428	The inhibitor protein IF1 from mammalian mitochondria inhibits ATP hydrolysis but not ATP synthesis by the ATP synthase complex. 	The inhibitor protein IF1 from mammalian mitochondria inhibits ATP hydrolysis but not ATP synthesis by the ATP synthase complex	ATP synthase, IF1 protein, absolute quantification, bovine mitochondria	The hydrolytic activity of the ATP synthase in bovine mitochondria is inhibited by a protein called IF1, but bovine IF1 has no effect on the synthetic activity of the bovine enzyme in mitochondrial vesicles in the presence of a proton motive force. In contrast, it has been suggested based on indirect observations that human IFI inhibits both the hydrolytic and synthetic activities of the human ATP synthase, and that the activity of human IF1 is regulated by the phosphorylation of serine-14 of mature IF1. Here, we have made both human and bovine IF1 which are 81 and 84 amino acids long, respectively, and identical in 71.4% of their amino acids, and have investigated their inhibitory effects on the hydrolytic and synthetic activities of ATP synthase in bovine sub-mitochondrial particles. Over a wide range of conditions, including physiological conditions, both human and bovine IF1 are potent inhibitors of ATP hydrolysis, with no effect on ATP synthesis. Also, substitution of serine-14 with phosphomimetic aspartic and glutamic acids had no effect on inhibitory properties, and serine-14 is not conserved throughout mammals. Therefore, it is unlikely that the inhibitory activity of mammalian IF1 is regulated by phosphorylation of this residue.
PXD047758	38280431	Proteomics, modeling, and fluorescence assays delineate cytochrome b5 residues involved in binding and stimulation of cytochrome P450 17A1 17,20-lyase. 	Analysis of fluorophore-labeled human cytochrome b5	Alexa 488, Cytochrome b5, Fluorophore	Cytochrome b5 (b5) is known to stimulate some catalytic activities of cytochrome P450 (P450, CYP) enzymes, although mechanisms still need to be defined. The reactions most strongly enhanced by b5 are the 17,20-lyase reactions of P450 17A1 involved in steroid biosynthesis. We had previously used a fluorescently labeled human b5 variant (Alexa 488-T70C-b5) to characterize human P450 17A1-b5 interactions, but subsequent proteomic analyses indicated that lysines in b5 were also modified with Alexa 488 maleimide in addition to Cys-70, due to disulfide dimerization of the T70C mutant. A series of b5 variants were constructed with Cys replacements for the identified lysine residues and labeled with the dye. Fluorescence attenuation and the function of b5 in the steroid lyase reaction depended on the modified position. Apo-b5 (devoid of heme group) studies revealed the lack of involvement of the b5 heme in the fluorescence attenuation. A structural model of b5 with P450 17A1 was predicted using AlphaFold-Multimer algorithms/Rosetta docking, based upon the individual structures, which predicted several new contacts not previously reported, i.e. interactions of b5 Glu-48:17A1 Arg-347, b5 Glu-49:17A1 Arg-449, b5 Asp-65:17A1 Arg-126, b5 Asp-65:17A1 Arg-125, b5 Glu-61:17A1 Lys-91. Fluorescence polarization assays with two modified b5 variants yielded Kd values (for b5-P450 17A1) of 120-380 nM, the best estimate of binding affinity. We conclude that both monomeric and dimeric b5 can bind to P450 17A1 and stimulate activity. Results with the mutants indicate that several Lys residues in b5 are sensitive to the interaction with P450 17A1, including Lys-88 and Lys-91.
PXD032254	38280862	AKT2(S128)/CCTalpha(S315/319/323)-positive cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) mediate focal adhesion kinase (FAK) inhibitors resistance via secreting phosphatidylcholines (PCs). 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of cancer-associated fibroblasts	CAFs, cancer-associated fibroblasts, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma	Abnormal metabolism is regarded as an oncogenic hallmark related to tumor progression and therapeutic resistance. Present study employed multi-omics, including phosphoproteomics, untargeted metabolomics and lipidomics, to demonstrate that the pAKT2 Ser(128) and pCCTalpha Ser(315/319/323)-positive cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) substantially release phosphatidylcholines (PCs), contributing to the resistance of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) inhibitors in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) treatment. Additionally, we observed extremely low levels of FAK Tyr(397) expression in CAFs, potentially offering no available target for FAK inhibitors playing their anti-growth role in CAFs. Consequently, FAK inhibitor increased the intracellular concentration of Ca(2+) in CAFs, promoting the formation of AKT2/CCTalpha complex, leading to phosphorylation of CCTalpha Ser(315/319/323) sites and eventually enhancing stromal PC production. This activation could stimulate the intratumoral Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway, triggering resistance to FAK inhibition. Analysis of clinical samples demonstrated that stromal pAKT2 Ser(128) and pCCTalpha Ser(315/319/323) are related to the tumor malignancy and reduced patient survival. Pseudo-targeted lipidomics and further validation cohort quantitatively showed that plasma PCs enable to distinguish the malignant extent of ESCC patients. In conclusion, inhibition of stroma-derived PCs and related pathway could be possible therapeutic strategies for tumor therapy.
PXD046416	38281181	A global survey of small RNA interactors identifies KhpA and KhpB as major RNA-binding proteins in Fusobacterium nucleatum. 	A global survey of small RNA interactors identifies KhpA and KhpB as major RNA-binding proteins in Fusobacterium nucleatum	Fusobacterium nucleatum, KH-domain, RBP, sRNA	The common oral microbe Fusobacterium nucleatum has recently drawn attention after it was found to colonize tumors throughout the human body. Fusobacteria are also interesting study systems for bacterial RNA biology as these early-branching species encode many small noncoding RNAs (sRNAs) but lack homologs of the common RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) CsrA, Hfq and ProQ. To search for alternate sRNA-associated RBPs in F. nucleatum, we performed a systematic mass spectrometry analysis of proteins that co-purified with 19 different sRNAs. This approach revealed strong enrichment of the KH domain proteins KhpA and KhpB with nearly all tested sRNAs, including the sigmaE-dependent sRNA FoxI, a regulator of several envelope proteins. KhpA/B act as a dimer to bind sRNAs with low micromolar affinity and influence the stability of several of their target transcripts. Transcriptome studies combined with biochemical and genetic analyses suggest that KhpA/B have several physiological functions, including being required for ethanolamine utilization. Our RBP search and the discovery of KhpA/B as major RBPs in F. nucleatum are important first steps in identifying key players of post-transcriptional control at the root of the bacterial phylogenetic tree.
PXD046860	38281242	Integrated multi-omics and genetic analyses reveal molecular determinants underlying Arabidopsis snap33 mutant phenotype. 	Integrated multi-omics and genetic analyses reveal molecular determinants underlying Arabidopsis snap33 mutant phenotype	ETI, MAPK, NLR, PTI, SNAP33, autoimmunity, salicylic acid	The secretory pathway is essential for plant immunity, delivering diverse antimicrobial molecules into the extracellular space. Arabidopsis thaliana soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor attachment protein receptor SNAP33 is a key actor of this process. The snap33 mutant displays dwarfism and necrotic lesions, however the molecular determinants of its macroscopic phenotypes remain elusive. Here, we isolated several new snap33 mutants that exhibited constitutive cell death and H2 O2 accumulation, further defining snap33 as an autoimmune mutant. We then carried out quantitative transcriptomic and proteomic analyses showing that numerous defense transcripts and proteins were up-regulated in the snap33 mutant, among which genes/proteins involved in defense hormone, pattern-triggered immunity, and nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich-repeat receptor signaling. qRT-PCR analyses and hormone dosages supported these results. Furthermore, genetic analyses elucidated the diverse contributions of the main defense hormones and some nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich-repeat receptor signaling actors in the establishment of the snap33 phenotype, emphasizing the preponderant role of salicylic acid over other defense phytohormones. Moreover, the accumulation of pattern-triggered immunity and nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich-repeat receptor signaling proteins in the snap33 mutant was confirmed by immunoblotting analyses and further shown to be salicylic acid-dependent. Collectively, this study unveiled molecular determinants underlying the Arabidopsis snap33 mutant phenotype and brought new insights into autoimmunity signaling.
PXD044089	38282412	Isolation and Proteomic Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles from Lactobacillus salivarius SNK-6. 	extracellular vesicles from Lactobacillus salivarius SNK-6	L salivarius SNK-6, extracellular vesicles	The proteins carried by the extracellular vesicles of Lactobacillus salivarius SNK-6 (LsEVs) were identified to provide a foundation for further explorations of the probiotic activities of L. salivarius SNK-6. LsEVs were isolated from the culture media of L. salivarius SNK-6 and morphological analysis was conducted by scanning electron microscopy. Subsequent transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis were performed to assess the morphology and particle size of the LsEVs. In addition, the protein composition of LsEVs was analyzed using silver staining and protein mass spectrometry. Finally, internalization of the identified LsEVs was confirmed using a confocal microscope, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was employed to analyze the levels of inflammatory cytokines in LPS-challenged RAW264.7 cells. The results revealed that the membrane-enclosed LsEVs were spherical, with diameters ranging from 100-250 nm. The LsEVs with diameters of 111-256 nm contained the greatest amount of cargo. In total, 320 proteins (10-38 kD) were identified in the LsEVs and included anti-inflammatory molecules, such as PrtP proteinase, co-chaperones, and elongation factor Tu, as well as some proteins involved in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, such as fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase. Enrichment analysis showed these proteins to be related to the terms "metabolic pathway," "ribosome," "glycolysis/gluconeogenesis," "carbohydrate metabolism," and "amino acid metabolism." Furthermore, the LsEVs were internalized by host liver cells and can regulate inflammation. These findings confirm that LsEVs contain various functional proteins that play important roles in energy metabolism, signal transduction, and biosynthesis.
PXD028189	38284752	The tRNA thiolation-mediated translational control is essential for plant immunity. 	The thiolation modification of tRNA is essential for plant immunity	plant immunity, tRNA thiolation, translation	Plants have evolved sophisticated mechanisms to regulate gene expression to activate immune responses against pathogen infections. However, how the translation system contributes to plant immunity is largely unknown. The evolutionarily conserved thiolation modification of tRNA ensures efficient decoding during translation. Here we show that tRNA thiolation is required for plant immunity in Arabidopsis. We identify a cgb mutant that is hyper-susceptible to the pathogen Pseudomonas syringae. CGB encodes ROL5, a homolog of yeast NCS6 required for tRNA thiolation. ROL5 physically interacts with CTU2, a homolog of yeast NCS2. Mutations in either ROL5 or CTU2 result in loss of tRNA thiolation. Further analyses reveal that both transcriptome and proteome reprogramming during immune responses are compromised in cgb. Notably, the translation of salicylic acid receptor NPR1 is reduced in cgb, resulting in compromised salicylic acid signaling. Our study not only reveals a regulatory mechanism for plant immunity but also uncovers an additional biological function of tRNA thiolation.
PXD033927	38286993	Nuclear and cytoplasmic specific RNA binding proteome enrichment and its changes upon ferroptosis induction. 	Organelle-specific RNA Tagging Probes for RNA Binding Proteome	RNA Binding Protein, spatial resolution	The key role of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression is intimately tied to their subcellular localization. Here, we show a subcellular-specific RNA labeling method for efficient enrichment and deep profiling of nuclear and cytoplasmic RBPs. A total of 1221 nuclear RBPs and 1333 cytoplasmic RBPs were enriched and identified using nuclear/cytoplasm targeting enrichment probes, representing an increase of 54.4% and 85.7% compared with previous reports. The probes were further applied in the omics-level investigation of subcellular-specific RBP-RNA interactions upon ferroptosis induction. Interestingly, large-scale RBPs display enhanced interaction with RNAs in nucleus but reduced association with RNAs in cytoplasm during ferroptosis process. Furthermore, we discovered dozens of nucleoplasmic translocation candidate RBPs upon ferroptosis induction and validated representative ones by immunofluorescence imaging. The enrichment of Tricarboxylic acid cycle in the translocation candidate RBPs may provide insights for investigating their possible roles in ferroptosis induced metabolism dysregulation.
PXD045433	38287222	Extending the Coverage of Lys-C/Trypsin-Based Bottom-up Proteomics by Cysteine S-Aminoethylation. 	Extending the coverage of Lys-C/trypsin-based bottom-up proteomics using cysteine S-aminoethylation 	S-aminoethylation, alkyration, membrane proteins	To improve the coverage in bottom-up proteomics, S-aminoethylation of cysteine residues (AE-Cys) was carried out with 2-bromoethylamine, followed by cleavage with lysyl endopeptidase (Lys-C) or Lys-C/trypsin. A model study with bovine serum albumin showed that the C-terminal side of AE-Cys was successfully cleaved by Lys-C. The frequency of side reactions at amino acids other than Cys was less than that in the case of carbamidomethylation of Cys with iodoacetamide. Proteomic analysis of A549 cell extracts in the data-dependent acquisition mode after AE-Cys modification afforded a greater number of identified protein groups, especially membrane proteins. In addition, label-free quantification of proteins in mouse nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tissue in the data-independent acquisition mode after AE-Cys modification showed improved NSCLC pathway coverage and greater reproducibility. Furthermore, the AE-Cys method could identify an epidermal growth factor receptor peptide containing the T790 M mutation site, a well-established lung-cancer-related mutation site that has evaded conventional bottom-up methods. Finally, AE-Cys was found to fully mimic Lys in terms of collision-induced dissociation fragmentation, ion mobility separation, and cleavage by Lys-C/trypsin, except for sulfoxide formation during sample preparation.
PXD042636	38287800	Protein Signatures for Distinguishing Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases from Primary Liver Cancer Using Tissue Slide Proteomics. 	Tissue Slide Proteomics of Primary Liver Cancer, Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases and Colorectal Cancer	FFPE tissue slide, colorectal cancer liver metastasis, hepatocellular carcinoma	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRLM) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are both high incidence tumors in China. In certain poorly differentiated cases they can exhibit comparable imaging and pathological characteristics, which impedes accurate clinical diagnosis. The use of protein-based techniques with tissue slides offers a more precise means to assess pathological changes and has the potential to assist with tumor diagnosis. METHODS: A simple in situ protein digestion protocol was established for protein fingerprint analysis of paraffin-embedded tissue slide samples. Additionally, machine learning techniques were employed to construct predictive models for CRLM and HCC. The accuracy of these models was validated using tissue slides and a clinical database. RESULTS: Analysis of differential protein expression between CRLM and HCC groups reliably identified 977 proteins. Among these, 53 were highly abundant in CRLM samples and 57 were highly abundant in HCC samples. A prediction model based on the expression of six proteins (CD9, GSTA1, KRT20, COL1A2, AKR1C3, and HIST2H2BD) had an area under curve (AUC) of 0.9667. This was further refined to three proteins (CD9, ALDH1A1, and GSTA1) with an AUC of 0.9333. CONCLUSIONS: Tissue slide proteomics can facilitate accurate differentiation between CRLM and HCC. This methodology holds great promise for improving clinical tumor diagnosis and for identifying novel markers for challenging pathological specimens.
PXD047248	38288278	Fully synthetic phosphorylated Tau181, Tau217, and Tau231 calibrators for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis. 	The sequence of Fully Synthetic peptides, Phosphorylated Tau181, Tau217, and Tau231 Calibrators, have been confirmed by MALDI-ISD analysis	Alzheimers disease (AD), Tau, calibrator, diagnosis, immunoassay	Background: The calibrator in immunoassay plays an essential role in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Presently, the most well-studied biomarkers for AD diagnosis are three phosphorylated Tau (p-Tau): p-Tau231, p-Tau217, and p-Tau181. Glycogen synthase-3beta (GSK3beta)-phosphorated Tau-441 is the most commonly used calibrator for p-Tau immunoassays. However, the batch-to-batch inconsistency issue of the commonly used GSK3beta-phosphorylated Tau-441 limits its clinical application. Methods: We have successfully generated and characterized 61 Tau monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) with distinct epitopes by using the hybridoma technique and employed them as capture or detection antibodies for p-Tau immunoassays. Through chemical synthesis, we synthesized calibrators, which are three peptides including capture and detection antibody epitopes, for application in immunoassays that detect p-Tau231, p-Tau217, and p-Tau181. The novel calibrators were applied to Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Single-molecule array (Simoa) platforms to validate their applicability and establish a range of p-Tau immunoassays. Results: By employing the hybridoma technique, 49 mAbs recognizing Tau (1-22), nine mAbs targeting p-Tau231, one mAb targeting p-Tau217, and two mAbs targeting p-Tau181 were developed. Peptides, including recognition epitopes of capture and detection antibodies, were synthesized. These peptides were used as calibrators to develop 60 immunoassays on the ELISA platform, of which six highly sensitive immunoassays were selected and applied to the ultra-sensitive Simoa platform. Remarkably, the LODs were 2.5, 2.4, 31.1, 32.9, 46.9, and 52.1 pg/ml, respectively. Conclusion: Three novel p-Tau calibrators were successfully generated and validated, which solved the batch-to-batch inconsistency issue of GSK3beta-phosphorylated Tau-441. The novel calibrators exhibit the potential to promote the standardization of clinical AD diagnostic calibrators. Furthermore, we established a series of highly sensitive and specific immunoassays on the Simoa platform based on novel calibrators, which moved a steady step forward in p-Tau immunoassay application for AD diagnosis.
PXD040071	38289134	sRNA molecules participate in hyperosmotic stress response regulation in Sphingomonas melonis TY. 	sRNA SNC251 participates in hyperosmotic stress response regulation in Sphingomonas melonis TY	SNC251	Drought and salinity are ubiquitous environmental factors that pose hyperosmotic threats to microorganisms and impair their efficiency in performing environmental functions. However, bacteria have developed various responses and regulatory systems to cope with these abiotic challenges. Posttranscriptional regulation plays vital roles in regulating gene expression and cellular homeostasis, as hyperosmotic stress conditions can lead to the induction of specific small RNA molecules (sRNAs) that participate in stress response regulation. Here, we report a candidate functional sRNA landscape of Sphingomonas melonis TY under hyperosmotic stress, and 18 sRNAs were found with a clear response to hyperosmotic stress. These findings will help in the comprehensive analysis of sRNA regulation in Sphingomonas species. Weighted correlation network analysis revealed a 263 nucleotide sRNA, SNC251, which was transcribed from its own promoter and showed the most significant correlation with hyperosmotic response factors. Deletion of snc251 affected biofilm formation and multiple cellular processes, including ribosome-related pathways, aromatic compound degradation, and the nicotine degradation capacity of S. melonis TY, while overexpression of SNC251 facilitated biofilm formation by TY under hyperosmotic stress. Two genes involved in the TonB system were further verified to be activated by SNC251, which also indicated that SNC251 is a trans-acting sRNA. Briefly, this research reports a landscape of sRNAs participating in the hyperosmotic stress response in S. melonis and reveals a novel sRNA, SNC251, which contributes to the S. melonis TY biofilm formation and thus enhances its hyperosmotic stress response ability.IMPORTANCESphingomonas species play a vital role in plant defense and pollutant degradation and survive extensively under drought or salinity. Previous studies have focused on the transcriptional and translational responses of Sphingomonas under hyperosmotic stress, but the posttranscriptional regulation of small RNA molecules (sRNAs) is also crucial for quickly modulating cellular processes to adapt dynamically to osmotic environments. In addition, the current knowledge of sRNAs in Sphingomonas is extremely scarce. This research revealed a novel sRNA landscape of Sphingomonas melonis and will greatly enhance our understanding of sRNAs' acting mechanisms in the hyperosmotic stress response.
PXD045676	38289703	Photo-affinity and Metabolic Labeling Probes Based on the Opioid Alkaloids. 	Intracellular targets of the opioids	heroin, morphine, opioids	The opioids are powerful analgesics but carry many contingencies that can lead to opioid-use disorder. Chemical probes derived from the opioid alkaloids can provide deeper insight into the molecular interactions in a cellular context. Here, we designed and developed photo-click morphine (PCM-2) as a photo-affinity probe based on morphine and dialkynyl-acetyl morphine (DAAM) as a metabolic acetate reporter based on heroin. Application of these probes to SH-SY5Y, HEK293T, and U2OS cells revealed that PCM-2 and DAAM primarily localize to the lysosome amongst other locations inside the cell by confocal microscopy and chemical proteomics. Interaction site identification by mass spectrometry revealed the mitochondrial phosphate carrier protein, solute carrier family 25 member 3, SLC25A3, and histone H2B as acylation targets of DAAM. These data illustrate the utility of chemical probes to measure localization and protein interactions in a cellular context and will inform the design of probes based on the opioids in the future.
PXD048558	38293138	Unveiling the crucial neuronal role of the proteasomal ATPase subunit gene PSMC5 in neurodevelopmental proteasomopathies. 	Impact of de novo variants in the PSMC5 coding the AAA-ATPase proteasome subunit PSMC5/Rpt6 on the protein pattern of patient-derived primary T-cells in comparison to their wild-type counterparts.	PSMC5 variants, primary T-cells, proteasome, protein homeostasis	Neurodevelopmental proteasomopathies represent a distinctive category of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD) characterized by genetic variations within the 26S proteasome, a protein complex governing eukaryotic cellular protein homeostasis. In our comprehensive study, we identified 23 unique variants in PSMC5 , which encodes the AAA-ATPase proteasome subunit PSMC5/Rpt6, causing syndromic NDD in 38 unrelated individuals. Overexpression of PSMC5 variants altered human hippocampal neuron morphology, while PSMC5 knockdown led to impaired reversal learning in flies and loss of excitatory synapses in rat hippocampal neurons. PSMC5 loss-of-function resulted in abnormal protein aggregation, profoundly impacting innate immune signaling, mitophagy rates, and lipid metabolism in affected individuals. Importantly, targeting key components of the integrated stress response, such as PKR and GCN2 kinases, ameliorated immune dysregulations in cells from affected individuals. These findings significantly advance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying neurodevelopmental proteasomopathies, provide links to research in neurodegenerative diseases, and open up potential therapeutic avenues.
PXD048328	38293178	Expanding the ligandable proteome by paralog hopping with covalent probes. 	CCNE1 interactome analysis in HEK293T cells under the treatment of different CCNE1(:CDK2) ligands	IP-MS	More than half of the ~20,000 protein-encoding human genes have at least one paralog. Chemical proteomics has uncovered many electrophile-sensitive cysteines that are exclusive to a subset of paralogous proteins. Here, we explore whether such covalent compound-cysteine interactions can be used to discover ligandable pockets in paralogs that lack the cysteine. Leveraging the covalent ligandability of C109 in the cyclin CCNE2, we mutated the corresponding residue in paralog CCNE1 to cysteine (N112C) and found through activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) that this mutant reacts stereoselectively and site-specifically with tryptoline acrylamides. We then converted the tryptoline acrylamide-N112C-CCNE1 interaction into a NanoBRET-ABPP assay capable of identifying compounds that reversibly inhibit both N112C- and WT-CCNE1:CDK2 complexes. X-ray crystallography revealed a cryptic allosteric pocket at the CCNE1:CDK2 interface adjacent to N112 that binds the reversible inhibitors. Our findings thus provide a roadmap for leveraging electrophile-cysteine interactions to extend the ligandability of the proteome beyond covalent chemistry.
PXD045792	38294351	Do Not Waste Time-Ensure Success in Your Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Experiments before You Begin. 	Don't Waste Time - Ensure Success in Your Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Experiments Before You Begin.	Cross-linking, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, iBAQ, protein abundance	Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has become a very useful tool for studying protein complexes and interactions in living systems. It enables the investigation of many large and dynamic assemblies in their native state, providing an unbiased view of their protein interactions and restraints for integrative modeling. More researchers are turning toward trying XL-MS to probe their complexes of interest, especially in their native environments. However, due to the presence of other potentially higher abundant proteins, sufficient cross-links on a system of interest may not be reached to achieve satisfactory structural and interaction information. There are currently no rules for predicting whether XL-MS experiments are likely to work or not; in other words, if a protein complex of interest will lead to useful XL-MS data. Here, we show that a simple iBAQ (intensity-based absolute quantification) analysis performed from trypsin digest data can provide a good understanding of whether proteins of interest are abundant enough to achieve successful cross-linking data. Comparing our findings to large-scale data on diverse systems from several other groups, we show that proteins of interest should be at least in the top 20% abundance range to expect more than one cross-link found per protein. We foresee that this guideline is a good starting point for researchers who would like to use XL-MS to study their protein of interest and help ensure a successful cross-linking experiment from the beginning. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD045792.
PXD038154	38295005	Vitamin D status in post-medieval Northern England: Insights from dental histology and enamel peptide analysis at Coach Lane, North Shields (AD 1711-1857). 	Sex estimation of a Neanderthal tooth fragment using a minimally destructive acid-etch method for dimorphic enamel peptide analysis	Amelogenin, Neanderthal, Sex estimation, Tooth enamel	OBJECTIVES: The post-medieval period in Europe saw a dramatic increase in metabolic bone disease related to vitamin D deficiency (VDD). Recent paleopathological work has utilized interglobular dentin (IGD) as a proxy for poor vitamin D status during development, while enamel peptide analysis allows the identification of chromosomal sex in non-adult remains. Here we explore the relationship between sex, the presence of IGD, and macroscopic markers of VDD in an industrial era assemblage from Northeast England. MATERIALS AND METHODS: 25 individuals (9 females, 9 males, 9 unknown sex) from the cemetery site at Coach Lane, North Shields (1711-1857) were selected for paleopathological analysis, histological assessment of IGD, and enamel peptide determination of chromosomal sex. RESULTS: Ground tooth sections from 21 individuals were of suitable quality for detection of IGD, and enamel peptide analysis confirmed the chromosomal sex of ten individuals. Sixteen individuals (76.1%) exhibited >=1 episode of IGD. Nine of these (42.8%) exhibited >1 episode and four (19%) exhibited >=4 episodes in regular intervals. Male sex was significantly associated with the presence of IGD (p = 0.0351; 100% males vs. 54.5% females). Females were more likely to exhibit macroscopic evidence of VDD (45.5% females vs 30% males) but this was not statistically significant. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Periods of poor mineral metabolism during childhood appear much more prevalent at Coach Lane than macroscopic evidence suggests. Evidence of seasonal IGD episodes indicates that northern latitude played a major role in poor VD status in the Northeast of England. The significant association of IGD with male sex may be due to sex-related differences in dentinal mineralization or a higher risk of poor VD status in males aged <5 years. More work is needed to establish an evidence-based threshold for pathological levels of IGD before the presence of this feature can confidently be used as a biomarker for poor VD status.
PXD046553	38295619	Structure-activity relationship and target investigation of 2-aryl quinolines with nematocidal activity. 	ABX464 - structure-activity relationship in a model parasitic nematode and target deconvolution	nematode	Within the context of our anthelmintic discovery program, we recently identified and evaluated a quinoline derivative, called ABX464 or obefazimod, as a nematocidal candidate; synthesised a series of analogues which were assessed for activity against the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans; and predicted compound-target relationships by thermal proteome profiling (TPP) and in silico docking. Here, we logically extended this work and critically evaluated the anthelmintic activity of ABX464 analogues on Haemonchus contortus (barber's pole worm) - a highly pathogenic nematode of ruminant livestock. First, we tested a series of 44 analogues on H. contortus (larvae and adults) to investigate the nematocidal pharmacophore of ABX464, and identified one compound with greater potency than the parent compound and showed moderate activity against a select number of other parasitic nematodes (including Ancylostoma, Heligmosomoides and Strongyloides species). Using TPP and in silico modelling studies, we predicted protein HCON_00074590 (a predicted aldo-keto reductase) as a target candidate for ABX464 in H. contortus. Future work aims to optimise this compound as a nematocidal candidate and investigate its pharmacokinetic properties. Overall, this study presents a first step toward the development of a new nematocide.
PXD046508	38295790	Clearance of beta-amyloid and synapses by the optogenetic depolarization of microglia is complement selective. 	Microglia cell with light treatment	light treatment, microglia, optogenetic	Microglia actively monitor the neighboring brain microenvironments and constantly contact synapses with their unique ramified processes. In neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), microglia undergo morphological and functional alterations. Whether the direct manipulation of microglia can selectively or concurrently modulate synaptic function and the response to disease-associated factors remains elusive. Here, we employ optogenetic methods to stimulate microglia in vitro and in vivo. Membrane depolarization rapidly changes microglia morphology and leads to enhanced phagocytosis. We found that the optogenetic stimulation of microglia can efficiently promote beta-amyloid (Abeta) clearance in the brain parenchyma, but it can also enhance synapse elimination. Importantly, the inhibition of C1q selectively prevents synapse loss induced by microglia depolarization but does not affect Abeta clearance. Our data reveal independent microglia-mediated phagocytosis pathways toward Abeta and synapses. Our results also shed light on a synergistic strategy of depolarizing microglia and inhibiting complement functions for the clearance of Abeta while sparing synapses.
PXD048380	38296025	Activity-Guided Proteomic Profiling of Proteasomes Uncovers a Variety of Active (And Inactive) Proteasome Species. 	Activity guided profiling of yeast proteasome - protein extraction test	native extraction, proteasome, yeast LFQ	Proteasomes are multi-subunit, multi-catalytic protein complexes present in eukaryotic cells that degrade misfolded, damaged, or unstructured proteins. In this study, we used an activity-guided proteomic methodology based on a fluorogenic peptide substrate to characterize the composition of proteasome complexes in WT yeast and the changes these complexes undergo upon the deletion of Pre9 (Deltaalpha3) or of Sem1 (DeltaSem1). A comparison of whole-cell proteomic analysis to activity-guided proteasome profiling indicates that the amounts of proteasomal proteins and proteasome interacting proteins in the assembled active proteasomes differ significantly from their total amounts in the cell as a whole. Using this activity-guided profiling approach, we characterized the changes in the abundance of subunits of various active proteasome species in different strains, quantified the relative abundance of active proteasomes across these strains, and charted the overall distribution of different proteasome species within each strain. The distributions obtained by our mass spectrometry-based quantification were markedly higher for some proteasome species than those obtained by activity-based quantification alone, suggesting that the activity of some of these species is impaired. The impaired activity appeared mostly among 20S(Blm10) proteasome species which account for 20% of the active proteasomes in WT. To identify the factors behind this impaired activity, we mapped and quantified known proteasome-interacting proteins. Our results suggested that some of the reduced activity might be due to the association of the proteasome inhibitor Fub1. Additionally, we provide novel evidence for the presence of non-mature and therefore inactive proteasomal protease subunits beta2 and beta5 in the fully assembled proteasomes.
PXD043529	38296184	Assessing the risk to develop a growing teratoma syndrome based on molecular and epigenetic subtyping as well as novel secreted biomarkers. 	Identification of new (liquid) biomarkers for teratoma in general and the growing teratoma syndrome	ex vivo cultivation, germ cell tumors, secretome, teratoma	In germ cell tumors (GCT), a growing teratoma during chemotherapy with decreasing tumor markers was defined as 'growing teratoma syndrome' (GTS) by Logothetis et al. in 1982. So far, its pathogenesis and specific treatment options remain elusive. We aimed at updating the GTS definition based on molecular and epigenetic features as well as identifying circulating biomarkers. We selected 50 GTS patients for clinical characterization and subsequently 12 samples were molecularly analyzed. We further included 7 longitudinal samples of 2 GTS patients. Teratomas (TER) showing no features of GTS served as controls. GTS were stratified based on growth rates into a slow (<0.5 cm/month), medium (0.5-1.5) and rapid (>1.5) group. By analyzing DNA methylation, microRNA expression and the secretome, we identified putative epigenetic and secreted biomarkers for the GTS subgroups. We found that proteins enriched in the GTS groups compared to TER were involved in proliferation, DNA replication and the cell cycle, while proteins interacting with the immune system were depleted. Additionally, GTS(rapid) seem to interact more strongly with the surrounding microenvironment than GTS(slow). Expression of pluripotency- and yolk-sac tumor-associated genes in GTS and formation of a yolk-sac tumor or somatic-type malignancy in the longitudinal GTS samples, pointed at an additional occult non-seminomatous component after chemotherapy. Thus, updating the Logothetis GTS definition is necessary, which we propose as follows: The GTS describes a continuously growing teratoma that might harbor occult non-seminomatous components considerably reduced during therapy but outgrowing over time again.
PXD045507	38296939	Bacterial protoplast-derived nanovesicles carrying CRISPR-Cas9 tools re-educate tumor-associated macrophages for enhanced cancer immunotherapy. 	Bacterial Protoplast-Derived Nanovesicles Carrying CRISPR Cas9 Tools Efficiently Re-educate Tumor-Associated  Macrophages for Cancer Immunotherapy	Bacterial Protoplast-Derived Nanovesicles, CRISPR-Cas9, TAM	The CRISPR-Cas9 system offers substantial potential for cancer therapy by enabling precise manipulation of key genes involved in tumorigenesis and immune response. Despite its promise, the system faces critical challenges, including the preservation of cell viability post-editing and ensuring safe in vivo delivery. To address these issues, this study develops an in vivo CRISPR-Cas9 system targeting tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). We employ bacterial protoplast-derived nanovesicles (NVs) modified with pH-responsive PEG-conjugated phospholipid derivatives and galactosamine-conjugated phospholipid derivatives tailored for TAM targeting. Utilizing plasmid-transformed E. coli protoplasts as production platforms, we successfully load NVs with two key components: a Cas9-sgRNA ribonucleoprotein targeting Pik3cg, a pivotal molecular switch of macrophage polarization, and bacterial CpG-rich DNA fragments, acting as potent TLR9 ligands. This NV-based, self-assembly approach shows promise for scalable clinical production. Our strategy remodels the tumor microenvironment by stabilizing an M1-like phenotype in TAMs, thus inhibiting tumor growth in female mice. This in vivo CRISPR-Cas9 technology opens avenues for cancer immunotherapy, overcoming challenges related to cell viability and safe, precise in vivo delivery.
PXD046601	38297099	Lactylation-driven FTO targets CDK2 to aggravate microvascular anomalies in diabetic retinopathy. 	20210901_WXY_TMT_2plex_3Rep_Huvec_proteins	FTO, HUVECs, Proteomic analyses	Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss in working-age populations. Fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) is an N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) demethylase that demethylates RNAs involved in energy homeostasis, though its influence on DR is not well studied. Herein, we detected elevated FTO expression in vitreous fibrovascular membranes of patients with proliferative DR. FTO promoted cell cycle progression and tip cell formation of endothelial cells (ECs) to facilitate angiogenesis in vitro, in mice, and in zebrafish. FTO also regulated EC-pericyte crosstalk to trigger diabetic microvascular leakage, and mediated EC-microglia interactions to induce retinal inflammation and neurodegeneration in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, FTO affected EC features via modulating CDK2 mRNA stability in an m(6)A-YTHDF2-dependent manner. FTO up-regulation under diabetic conditions was driven by lactate-mediated histone lactylation. FB23-2, an inhibitor to FTO's m(6)A demethylase activity, suppressed angiogenic phenotypes in vitro. To allow for systemic administration, we developed a nanoplatform encapsulating FB23-2 and confirmed its targeting and therapeutic efficiency in mice. Collectively, our study demonstrates that FTO is important for EC function and retinal homeostasis in DR, and warrants further investigation as a therapeutic target for DR patients.
PXD042765	38298208	Proteome and phospholipidome interrelationship of synovial fluid-derived extracellular vesicles in equine osteoarthritis: An exploratory 'multi-omics' study to identify composite biomarkers. 	Proteome and phospholipidome interrelationship of synovial fluid-derived extracellular vesicles in Equine osteoarthritis:  An exploratory multi-omic' study	Osteoarthritis, equine, extracellular vesicles, lipidomics, synovial fluid	Osteoarthritis causes progressive joint deterioration, severe morbidity, and reduced mobility in both humans and horses. Currently, osteoarthritis is diagnosed at late stages through clinical examination and radiographic imaging, hence it is challenging to address and provide timely therapeutic interventions to slow disease progression or ameliorate symptoms. Extracellular vesicles are cell-derived vesicles that play a key role in cell-to-cell communication and are potential sources for specific composite biomarker panel discovery. We here used a multi-omics strategy combining proteomics and phospholipidomics in an integral approach to identify composite biomarkers associated to purified extracellular vesicles from synovial fluid of healthy, mildly and severely osteoarthritic equine joints. Although the number of extracellular vesicles was unaffected by osteoarthritis, proteome profiling of extracellular vesicles by mass spectrometry identified 40 differentially expressed proteins (non-adjusted p < 0.05) in osteoarthritic joints associated with 7 significant canonical pathways in osteoarthritis. Moreover, pathway analysis unveiled changes in disease and molecular functions during osteoarthritis development. Phospholipidome profiling by mass spectrometry showed a relative increase in sphingomyelin and a decrease in phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, and phosphatidylserine in extracellular vesicles derived from osteoarthritic joints compared to healthy joints. Unsupervised data integration revealed positive correlations between the proteome and the phospholipidome. Comprehensive analysis showed that some phospholipids and their related proteins increased as the severity of osteoarthritis progressed, while others decreased or remained stable. Altogether our data show interrelationships between synovial fluid extracellular vesicle-associated phospholipids and proteins responding to osteoarthritis pathology and which could be explored as potential composite diagnostic biomarkers of disease.
PXD041602	38298899	Multi-omics landscape to decrypt the distinct flavonoid biosynthesis of Scutellaria baicalensis across multiple tissues. 	Proteome of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi	Scutellaria baicalensis	Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, also known as huang-qin in traditional Chinese medicine, is a widely used herbal remedy due to its anticancer, antivirus, and hepatoprotective properties. The S. baicalensis genome was sequenced many years ago; by contrast, the proteome as the executer of most biological processes of S. baicalensis in the aerial parts, as well as the secondary structure of the roots (xylem, phloem, and periderm), is far less comprehensively characterized. Here we attempt to depict the molecular landscape of the non-model plant S. baicalensis through a multi-omics approach, with the goal of constructing a highly informative and valuable reference dataset. Furthermore, we provide an in-depth characterization dissection to explain the two distinct flavonoid biosynthesis pathways that exist in the aerial parts and root, at the protein and phosphorylated protein levels. Our study provides detailed spatial proteomic and phosphoproteomic information in the context of secondary structures, with implications for the molecular profiling of secondary metabolite biosynthesis in non-model medicinal plants.
PXD043708	38300384	Molecular Mechanisms of Intracellular Delivery of Nanoparticles Monitored by an Enzyme-Induced Proximity Labeling. 	Dynamic analysis of nano-protein interaction in cell transport of nano-drugs based on proximity labeling strategy	cellular transportation, nano-protein interaction, proximity labeling strategy	Achieving increasingly finely targeted drug delivery to organs, tissues, cells, and even to intracellular biomacromolecules is one of the core goals of nanomedicines. As the delivery destination is refined to cellular and subcellular targets, it is essential to explore the delivery of nanomedicines at the molecular level. However, due to the lack of technical methods, the molecular mechanism of the intracellular delivery of nanomedicines remains unclear to date. Here, we develop an enzyme-induced proximity labeling technology in nanoparticles (nano-EPL) for the real-time monitoring of proteins that interact with intracellular nanomedicines. Poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles coupled with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) were fabricated as a model (HRP(+)-PNPs) to evaluate the molecular mechanism of nano delivery in macrophages. By adding the labeling probe biotin-phenol and the catalytic substrate H2O2 at different time points in cellular delivery, nano-EPL technology was validated for the real-time in situ labeling of proteins interacting with nanoparticles. Nano-EPL achieves the dynamic molecular profiling of 740 proteins to map the intracellular delivery of HRP (+)-PNPs in macrophages over time. Based on dynamic clustering analysis of these proteins, we further discovered that different organelles, including endosomes, lysosomes, the endoplasmic reticulum, and the Golgi apparatus, are involved in delivery with distinct participation timelines. More importantly, the engagement of these organelles differentially affects the drug delivery efficiency, reflecting the spatial-temporal heterogeneity of nano delivery in cells. In summary, these findings highlight a significant methodological advance toward understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in the intracellular delivery of nanomedicines.
PXD043721	38300872	A macrophage-collagen fragment axis mediates subcutaneous adipose tissue remodeling in mice. 	A Macrophage-Collagen Fragment Axis Mediates Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Remodeling	CD206, ECM-remodeling, Subcutaneous adipose tissue, collagen endocytosis, collagen fragments, fibrosis, macrophages	Efficient removal of fibrillar collagen is essential for adaptive subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) expansion that protects against ectopic lipid deposition during weight gain. Here, we used mice to further define the mechanism for this collagenolytic process. We show that loss of collagen type-1 (CT1) and increased CT1-fragment levels in expanding SAT are associated with proliferation of resident M2-like macrophages that display increased CD206-mediated engagement in collagen endocytosis compared to chow-fed controls. Blockage of CD206 during acute high-fat diet-induced weight gain leads to SAT CT1-fragment accumulation associated with elevated inflammation and fibrosis markers. Moreover, these SAT macrophages' engagement in collagen endocytosis is diminished in obesity associated with elevated levels collagen fragments that are too short to assemble into triple helices. We show that such short fragments provoke M2-macrophage proliferation and fibroinflammatory changes in fibroblasts. In conclusion, our data delineate the importance of a macrophage-collagen fragment axis in physiological SAT expansion. Therapeutic targeting of this process may be a means to prevent pathological adipose tissue remodeling, which in turn may reduce the risk for obesity-related metabolic disorders.
PXD046897	38301007	Type III-B CRISPR-Cas cascade of proteolytic cleavages. 	Type III-B CRISPR-Cas signaling-based cascade of proteolytic cleavages	Type III CRISPR-Cas	The generation of cyclic oligoadenylates and subsequent allosteric activation of proteins that carry sensory domains is a distinctive feature of type III CRISPR-Cas systems. In this work, we characterize a set of associated genes of a type III-B system from Haliangium ochraceum that contains two caspase-like proteases, SAVED-CHAT and PCaspase (prokaryotic caspase), co-opted from a cyclic oligonucleotide-based antiphage signaling system (CBASS). Cyclic tri-adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-induced oligomerization of SAVED-CHAT activates proteolytic activity of the CHAT domains, which specifically cleave and activate PCaspase. Subsequently, activated PCaspase cleaves a multitude of proteins, which results in a strong interference phenotype in vivo in Escherichia coli. Taken together, our findings reveal how a CRISPR-Cas-based detection of a target RNA triggers a cascade of caspase-associated proteolytic activities.
PXD044834	38303729	Cellular targets and lysine selectivity of the HERC5 ISG15 ligase. 	Cellular Targets and the Lysine Selectivity of the HERC5 ISG15 Ligase	HECT E3, HERC5, HERC6, ISG15, Type I Interferon, innate immunity, post-translational modifications, ubiquitin-like proteins	ISG15 is a type I interferon-induced ubiquitin-like modifier that functions in innate immune responses. The major human ISG15 ligase is hHERC5, a ribosome-associated HECT E3 that broadly ISGylates proteins cotranslationally. Here, we characterized the hHERC5-dependent ISGylome and identified over 2,000 modified lysines in over 1,100 proteins in IFN-beta-stimulated cells. In parallel, we compared the substrate selectivity hHERC5 to the major mouse ISG15 ligase, mHERC6, and analysis of sequences surrounding ISGylation sites revealed that hHERC5 and mHERC6 have distinct preferences for amino acid sequence context. Several features of the datasets were consistent with ISGylation of ribosome-tethered nascent chains, and mHERC6, like hHERC5, cotranslationally modified nascent polypeptides. The ISGylome datasets presented here represent the largest numbers of protein targets and modification sites attributable to a single Ub/Ubl ligase and the lysine selectivities of the hHERC5 and mHERC6 enzymes may have implications for the activities of HECT domain ligases, generally.
PXD046810	38304711	Characterization of MdpS: an in-depth analysis of a MUC5B-degrading protease from Streptococcus oralis. 	Characterization of MdpS: An In-depth Analysis of a MUC5B-Degrading Protease from Streptococcus oralis	MUC5B, Mucin degradation, O-glycosylation, Serine protease, Streptococcus oralis, oral biofilm	Oral biofilms, comprising hundreds of bacteria and other microorganisms on oral mucosal and dental surfaces, play a central role in oral health and disease dynamics. Streptococcus oralis, a key constituent of these biofilms, contributes significantly to the formation of which, serving as an early colonizer and microcolony scaffold. The interaction between S. oralis and the orally predominant mucin, MUC5B, is pivotal in biofilm development, yet the mechanism underlying MUC5B degradation remains poorly understood. This study introduces MdpS (Mucin Degrading Protease from Streptococcus oralis), a protease that extensively hydrolyses MUC5B and offers an insight into its evolutionary conservation, physicochemical properties, and substrate- and amino acid specificity. MdpS exhibits high sequence conservation within the species and also explicitly among early biofilm colonizing streptococci. It is a calcium or magnesium dependent serine protease with strict physicochemical preferences, including narrow pH and temperature tolerance, and high sensitivity to increasing concentrations of sodium chloride and reducing agents. Furthermore, MdpS primarily hydrolyzes proteins with O-glycans, but also shows activity toward immunoglobulins IgA1/2 and IgM, suggesting potential immunomodulatory effects. Significantly, MdpS extensively degrades MUC5B in the N- and C-terminal domains, emphasizing its role in mucin degradation, with implications for carbon and nitrogen sequestration for S. oralis or oral biofilm cross-feeding. Moreover, depending on substrate glycosylation, the amino acids serine, threonine or cysteine triggers the enzymatic action. Understanding the interplay between S. oralis and MUC5B, facilitated by MdpS, has significant implications for the management of a healthy eubiotic oral microenvironment, offering potential targets for interventions aimed at modulating oral biofilm composition and succession. Additionally, since MdpS does not rely on O-glycan removal prior to extensive peptide backbone hydrolysis, the MdpS data challenges the current model of MUC5B degradation. These findings emphasize the necessity for further research in this field.
PXD036442	38305737	The neuronal transcription factor MEIS2 is a calpain2 protease target. 	Stability of the neuronal fate determinant MEIS2 is controlled by calpain2	Calpain, MEIS2, adult neurogenesis, phosphoproteomics, protease cleavage sites, stem cell, subventricular zone	Tight control over transcription factor activity is necessary for a sensible balance between cellular proliferation and differentiation in the embryo and during tissue homeostasis by adult stem cells, but mechanistic details have remained incomplete. The homeodomain transcription factor MEIS2 is an important regulator of neurogenesis in the ventricular-subventricular zone (V-SVZ) adult stem cell niche in mice. We here identify MEIS2 as direct target of the intracellular protease calpain2. Phosphorylation at conserved serine / threonine residues or dimerization with PBX1 reduced the sensitivity of MEIS2 towards cleavage by calpain2. In the adult V-SVZ, calpain2 activity is high in stem- and progenitor cells, but rapidly declines during neuronal differentiation, which is accompanied by increased stability of MEIS2 full-length protein. In accordance with this, blocking calpain2 activity in stem- and progenitor cells or overexpression of a cleavage-insensitive form of MEIS2 increased the production of neurons, while overexpression of a catalytically active CAPN2 reduced it. Collectively, our results support a key role for calpain2 in controlling the output of adult V-SVZ neural stem- and progenitor cells through cleavage of the neuronal fate determinant MEIS2.
PXD047043	38306169	Inhibition of the Alternative Complement Pathway May Cause Secretion of Factor B, Enabling an Early Detection of Pancreatic Cancer. 	Inhibition of Alternative Complement Pathway May Cause Secretion of Factor B, Enabling an Early Detection of Pancreatic Cancer	adrenomedullin, alternative pathway, cancer biomarker, complement factor B, complement factor H, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	This study aims to elucidate the cellular mechanisms behind the secretion of complement factor B (CFB), known for its dual roles as an early biomarker for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and as the initial substrate for the alternative complement pathway (ACP). Using parallel reaction monitoring analysis, we confirmed a consistent ~2-fold increase in CFB expression in PDAC patients compared with that in both healthy donors (HD) and chronic pancreatitis (CP) patients. Elevated ACP activity was observed in CP and other benign conditions compared with that in HD and PDAC patients, suggesting a functional link between ACP and PDAC. Protein-protein interaction analyses involving key complement proteins and their regulatory factors were conducted using blood samples from PDAC patients and cultured cell lines. Our findings revealed a complex control system governing the ACP and its regulatory factors, including Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) mutation, adrenomedullin (AM), and complement factor H (CFH). Particularly, AM emerged as a crucial player in CFB secretion, activating CFH and promoting its predominant binding to C3b over CFB. Mechanistically, our data suggest that the KRAS mutation stimulates AM expression, enhancing CFH activity in the fluid phase through binding. This heightened AM-CFH interaction conferred greater affinity for C3b over CFB, potentially suppressing the ACP cascade. This sequence of events likely culminated in the preferential release of ductal CFB into plasma during the early stages of PDAC. (Data set ID PXD047043.).
PXD044015	38306394	Hepatitis B virus RNAs co-opt ELAVL1 for stabilization and CRM1-dependent nuclear export. 	Biotin-pgRNAWT or Biotin-pgRNAAUUUA to AUCUC RNA pulldown LC-MS/MS	AU rich element, HBV RNA, RNA nuclear export, RNA stability, pgRNA binding proteins	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) chronically infects 296 million people worldwide, posing a major global health threat. Export of HBV RNAs from the nucleus to the cytoplasm is indispensable for viral protein translation and genome replication, however the mechanisms regulating this critical process remain largely elusive. Here, we identify a key host factor embryonic lethal, abnormal vision, Drosophila-like 1 (ELAVL1) that binds HBV RNAs and controls their nuclear export. Using an unbiased quantitative proteomics screen, we demonstrate direct binding of ELAVL1 to the HBV pregenomic RNA (pgRNA). ELAVL1 knockdown inhibits HBV RNAs posttranscriptional regulation and suppresses viral replication. Further mechanistic studies reveal ELAVL1 recruits the nuclear export receptor CRM1 through ANP32A and ANP32B to transport HBV RNAs to the cytoplasm via specific AU-rich elements, which can be targeted by a compound CMLD-2. Moreover, ELAVL1 protects HBV RNAs from DIS3+RRP6+ RNA exosome mediated nuclear RNA degradation. Notably, we find HBV core protein is dispensable for HBV RNA-CRM1 interaction and nuclear export. Our results unveil ELAVL1 as a crucial host factor that regulates HBV RNAs stability and trafficking. By orchestrating viral RNA nuclear export, ELAVL1 is indispensable for the HBV life cycle. Our study highlights a virus-host interaction that may be exploited as a new therapeutic target against chronic hepatitis B.
PXD046761	38306910	Metabolomics profiling reveals the detoxification and tolerance behavior of two bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) varieties under arsenate stress. 	Proteomics profiling reveals the detoxification and tolerance behavior of two bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) varieties under arsenate stress	Glutathione, Peroxidase, Stress-responsive proteins	The present study conducted metabolomics profiling (targeted and untargeted) in the roots of two wheat varieties (BARANI-70 and NARC-09) under arsenate stress in a hydroponic experiment. The findings indicated a better growth response of BARANI-70 compared to the NARC-09. From amino acid profiling, a total of 26 amino acids (AAs) were quantified in roots. BARANI-70 showed higher induction of stress-responsive AAs compared to the NARC-09. From untargeted metabolomics, a total of 136 metabolites were identified: AAs, fatty acids, purines, carnitines, LysoPCs, and others. The KEGG pathway identified pathways such as linoleic acid metabolism, TCA cycle, glutathione metabolism, and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis that were regulated to improve the defense of tolerant variety. BARANI-70 emerged as a tolerant variety based on the psychological response, As accumulation, and behavior of stress-responsive metabolites. This study should facilitate the breeding of low-As accumulating wheat varieties for future application to ensure sustainable production and food safety.
PXD041389	38307490	A murine model of maternal micronutrient deficiencies and gut inflammatory host-microbe interactions in the offspring. 	A novel murine model of maternal micronutrient deficiencies and its implications in enteric inflammatory host-microbe interactions in the offspring	Developmental Origins of Health and Disease, Enterobacteriaceae, chronic inflammation, maternal micronutrient deficiencies, mitochondrial dysfunction	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Micronutrient deficiency (MND i.e., lack of vitamins and minerals) during pregnancy is a major public health concern. Historically, studies have considered micronutrients in isolation; however, MNDs rarely occur alone. The impact of co-occurring MNDs on public health, mainly in shaping mucosal colonization by pathobionts from Enterobacteriaceae family, remains undetermined due to lack of relevant animal models. METHODS: To establish a maternal murine model of multiple MND (MMND), we customized a diet deficient in vitamins (A, B12 and B9) and minerals (iron and zinc) that most commonly affect children and women of reproductive age. Thereafter, mucosal adherence by Enterobacteriaceae, the associated inflammatory markers and proteomic profile of intestines were determined in the offspring of MMND mothers (hereafter, low micronutrient/LM pups) via bacterial plating, flow cytometry and mass spectrometry, respectively. For human validation, Enterobacteriaceae abundance, assessed via 16s sequencing of 3-month-old infant fecal samples (n= 100), was correlated with micronutrient metabolites using Spearman's correlation in meconium of children from the CHILD birth cohort. RESULTS: We developed an MMND model and reported an increase in colonic abundance of Enterobacteriaceae in LM pups at weaning. Findings from CHILD cohort confirmed a negative correlation between Enterobacteriaceae and micronutrient availability. Furthermore, pro-inflammatory cytokines and increased infiltration of lymphocyte antigen 6 complex high monocytes and M1-like macrophages were evident in the colons of LM pups. Mechanistically, mitochondrial dysfunction marked by reduced expression of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)H dehydrogenase and increased expression of NAD phosphate oxidase (Nox) 1 contributed to the Enterobacteriaceae bloom. CONCLUSION: This study establishes an early life MMND link to intestinal pathobiont colonization and mucosal inflammation via damaged mitochondria in the offspring.
PXD040098	38307874	Rescue of mitochondrial import failure by intercellular organellar transfer. 	Interactors of trapped protein from mitochondria from HeLa cells with stalled import TMT-MS	Galactose, HeLa, Import, Mitochondria	Mitochondria are the powerhouses of eukaryotic cells, composed mostly of nuclear-encoded proteins imported from the cytosol. Thus, problems with the import machinery will disrupt their regenerative capacity and the cell's energy supplies - particularly troublesome for energy-demanding cells of nervous tissue and muscle. Unsurprisingly then, import breakdown is implicated in disease. Here, we explore the consequences of import failure in mammalian cells; wherein, blocking the import machinery impacts mitochondrial ultra-structure and dynamics, but, surprisingly, does not affect import. Our data are consistent with a response involving intercellular mitochondrial transport via tunnelling nanotubes to import healthy mitochondria and jettison those with blocked import sites. These observations support the existence of a widespread mechanism for the rescue of mitochondrial dysfunction.
PXD038222	38307877	Phosphorylation of human glioma-associated oncogene 1 on Ser937 regulates Sonic Hedgehog signaling in medulloblastoma. 	Phosphoproteome analysis of MB mice cerebella tissue	Cerebella, Medulloblastoma, PTMs, phosphroteome	Aberrant activation of sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling and its effector transcriptional factor GLI1 are essential for oncogenesis of SHH-dependent medulloblastoma (MBSHH) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC). Here, we show that SHH inactivates p38alpha (MAPK14) in a smoothened-dependent manner, conversely, p38alpha directly phosphorylates GLI1 on Ser937/Ser941 (human/mouse) to induce GLI1's proteasomal degradation and negates the transcription of SHH signaling. As a result, Gli1(S941E) loss-of-function knock-in significantly reduces the incidence and severity of smoothened-M2 transgene-induced spontaneous MBSHH, whereas Gli1(S941A) gain-of-function knock-in phenocopies Gli1 transgene in causing BCC-like proliferation in skin. Correspondingly, phospho-Ser937-GLI1, a destabilized form of GLI1, positively correlates to the overall survival rate of children with MBSHH. Together, these findings indicate that SHH-induced p38alpha inactivation and subsequent GLI1 dephosphorylation and stabilization in controlling SHH signaling and may provide avenues for future interventions of MBSHH and BCC.
PXD048437	38308845	ABHD7-mediated depalmitoylation of lamin A promotes myoblast differentiation. 	MS analysis for S-acylation of Lamin A	Lamin A, S-acylation	LMNA gene mutation can cause muscular dystrophy, and post-translational modification plays a critical role in regulating its function. Here, we identify that lamin A is palmitoylated at cysteine 522, 588, and 591 residues, which are reversely catalyzed by palmitoyltransferase zinc finger DHHC-type palmitoyltransferase 5 (ZDHHC5) and depalmitoylase alpha/beta hydrolase domain 7 (ABHD7). Furthermore, the metabolite lactate promotes palmitoylation of lamin A by inhibiting the interaction between it and ABHD7. Interestingly, low-level palmitoylation of lamin A promotes, whereas high-level palmitoylation of lamin A inhibits, murine myoblast differentiation. Together, these observations suggest that ABHD7-mediated depalmitoylation of lamin A controls myoblast differentiation.
PXD032078	38309955	ISG15 blocks cardiac glycolysis and ensures sufficient mitochondrial energy production during Coxsackievirus B3 infection. 	Proteomics-based identification of ISG15 modification sites in vivo upon Coxsackie virus infection	ISG15, infection, ubiquitin, virus	AIMS: Virus infection triggers inflammation and, may impose nutrient shortage to the heart. Supported by type I interferon (IFN) signaling, cardiomyocytes counteract infection by various effector processes, with the IFN-stimulated gene of 15 kDa (ISG15) system being intensively regulated and protein modification with ISG15 protecting mice Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) infection. The underlying molecular aspects how the ISG15 system affects the functional properties of respective protein substrates in the heart are unknown. METHODS AND RESULTS: Based on the protective properties due to protein ISGylation, we set out a study investigating CVB3-infected mice in depth and found cardiac atrophy with lower cardiac output in ISG15-/- mice. By mass spectrometry, we identified the protein targets of the ISG15 conjugation machinery in heart tissue and explored how ISGylation affects their function. The cardiac ISGylome showed a strong enrichment of ISGylation substrates within glycolytic metabolic processes. Two control enzymes of the glycolytic pathway, hexokinase 2 (HK2) and phosphofructokinase muscle form (PFK1), were identified as bona fide ISGylation targets during infection. In an integrative approach complemented with enzymatic functional testing and structural modeling, we demonstrate that protein ISGylation obstructs the activity of HK2 and PFK1. Seahorse-based investigation of glycolysis in cardiomyocytes revealed that, by conjugating proteins, the ISG15 system prevents the infection-/IFN-induced upregulation of glycolysis. We complemented our analysis with proteomics-based advanced computational modeling of cardiac energy metabolism. Our calculations revealed an ISG15-dependent preservation of the metabolic capacity in cardiac tissue during CVB3 infection. Functional profiling of mitochondrial respiration in cardiomyocytes and mouse heart tissue by Seahorse technology showed an enhanced oxidative activity in cells with a competent ISG15 system. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that ISG15 controls critical nodes in cardiac metabolism. ISG15 reduces the glucose demand, supports higher ATP production capacity in the heart, despite nutrient shortage in infection, and counteracts cardiac atrophy and dysfunction.
PXD045500	38310095	Micropillar arrays, wide window acquisition and AI-based data analysis improve comprehensiveness in multiple proteomic applications. 	Benchmarking CHIMERYS using Wide Window Acquisition and Classical Narrow Isolation Window Data Dependent Acquisition	E. coli, HeLa, Orbitrap Exploris 480, Vanquish Neo, direct injection, micropillar array chromatography, single cells, trap-and-elute, wide window acquisition	Comprehensive proteomic analysis is essential to elucidate molecular pathways and protein functions. Despite tremendous progress in proteomics, current studies still suffer from limited proteomic coverage and dynamic range. Here, we utilize micropillar array columns (microPACs) together with wide-window acquisition and the AI-based CHIMERYS search engine to achieve excellent proteomic comprehensiveness for bulk proteomics, affinity purification mass spectrometry and single cell proteomics. Our data show that microPACs identify <=50% more peptides and <=24% more proteins, while offering improved throughput, which is critical for large (clinical) proteomics studies. Combining wide precursor isolation widths of m/z 4-12 with the CHIMERYS search engine identified +51-74% and +59-150% more proteins and peptides, respectively, for single cell, co-immunoprecipitation, and multi-species samples over a conventional workflow at well-controlled false discovery rates. The workflow further offers excellent precision, with CVs <7% for low input bulk samples, and accuracy, with deviations <10% from expected fold changes for regular abundance two-proteome mixes. Compared to a conventional workflow, our entire optimized platform discovered 92% more potential interactors in a protein-protein interaction study on the chromatin remodeler Smarca5/Snf2h. These include previously described Smarca5 binding partners and undescribed ones including Arid1a, another chromatin remodeler with key roles in neurodevelopmental and malignant disorders.
PXD046500	38311109	Chemical proteomics reveals N(epsilon)-fatty-acylation of septins by Rho Inactivation Domain (RID) of the Vibrio MARTX toxin to alter septin localization and organization. 	Chemical proteomics of RID substrates	Chemical proteomics, RID	Vibrio species, the Gram-negative bacterial pathogens causing cholera and sepsis, produce multiple secreted virulence factors for infection and pathogenesis. Among these is the multifunctional-autoprocessing repeats-in-toxin (MARTX) toxin that releases several critical effector domains with distinct functions inside eukaryotic host cells. One such effector domain, the Rho inactivation domain (RID), has been discovered to catalyze long-chain N(epsilon)-fatty-acylation on lysine residues of Rho GTPases, causing inactivation of Rho GTPases and disruption of the host actin cytoskeleton. However, whether RID modifies other host proteins to exert additional functions remains to be determined. Herein, we describe the integration of bioorthogonal chemical labeling and quantitative proteomics to globally profile the target proteins modified by RID in living cells. More than 246 proteins are identified as new RID substrates, including many involved in GTPase regulation, cytoskeletal organization, and cell division. We demonstrate that RID extensively N(epsilon)-fatty-acylates septin proteins, the fourth cytoskeletal component of mammalian cells with important roles in diverse cellular processes. While affinity purification and mass spectrometry analysis show that RID-mediated N(epsilon)-fatty-acylation does not affect septin-septin interactions, this modification increases the membrane association of septins and confers localization to detergent-resistant membrane rafts. As a result, the filamentous assembly and organization of septins are disrupted by RID-mediated N(epsilon)-fatty-acylation, further contributing to cytoskeletal and mitotic defects that phenocopy the effects of septin depletion. Overall, our work greatly expands the substrate scope and function of RID and demonstrates the role of RID-mediated N(epsilon)-fatty-acylation in manipulating septin localization and organization.
PXD045968	38311252	Integrated physiology, transcriptome and proteome analyses highlight the potential roles of multiple hormone-mediated signaling pathways involved in tapping panel dryness in rubber tree. 	Proteome Analysis Identified Key Proteins in Response to Tapping Panel Dryness in Rubber Trees	Rubber tree, TMT, Tapping Panel Dryness	Currently, one of the most serious threats to rubber tree is the tapping panel dryness (TPD) that greatly restricts natural rubber production. Over-tapping or excessive ethephon stimulation is regarded as the main cause of TPD occurrence. Although extensive studies have been carried out, the molecular mechanism underlying TPD remains puzzled. An attempt was made to compare the levels of endogenous hormones and the profiles of transcriptome and proteome between healthy and TPD trees. Results showed that most of endogenous hormones such as jasmonic acid (JA), 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACC), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), trans-zeatin (tZ) and salicylic acid (SA) in the barks were significantly altered in TPD-affected rubber trees. Accordingly, multiple hormone-mediated signaling pathways were changed. In total, 731 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 671 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified, of which 80 DEGs were identified as putative transcription factors (TFs). Further analysis revealed that 12 DEGs and five DEPs regulated plant hormone synthesis, and that 16 DEGs and six DEPs were involved in plant hormone signal transduction pathway. Nine DEGs and four DEPs participated in rubber biosynthesis and most DEGs and all the four DEPs were repressed in TPD trees. All these results highlight the potential roles of endogenous hormones, signaling pathways mediated by these hormones and rubber biosynthesis pathway in the defense response of rubber trees to TPD. The present study extends our understanding of the nature and mechanism underlying TPD and provides some candidate genes and proteins related to TPD for further research in the future.
PXD043516	38315067	Discovering the Radiation Biomarkers in the Plasma of Total-Body Irradiated Leukemia Patients. 	Discovering radiation biomarkers in plasma of total-body irradiated leukemia patients	Human plasma, biomarkers, irradiation	The increased risk of acute large-scale radiological exposure for the world's population underlines the need for optimal radiation biomarkers. Ionizing radiation triggers a complex response by the genome, proteome, and metabolome, all of which have been reported as suitable indicators of radiation-induced damage in vivo. This study analyzed peripheral blood samples from total-body irradiation (TBI) leukemia patients through mass spectrometry (MS) to identify and quantify differentially regulated proteins in plasma before and after irradiation. In brief, samples were taken from 16 leukemic patients prior to and 24 h after TBI (2 x 2.0 Gy), processed with Tandem Mass Tag isobaric labelling kit (TMTpro-16-plex), and analyzed by MS. In parallel, label-free relative quantification was performed with a RP-nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS system in a Q-Exactive mass spectrometer. Protein identification was done in Proteome Discoverer v.2.2 platform (Thermo). Data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD043516. Using two different methods, we acquired two datasets of up-regulated (ratio >= 1.2) or down-regulated (ratio <= 0.83) plasmatic proteins 24 h after irradiation, identifying 356 and 346 proteins in the TMT-16plex and 285 and 308 label-free analyses, respectively (P <= 0.05). Combining the two datasets yielded 15 candidates with significant relation to gamma-radiation exposure. The majority of these proteins were associated with the inflammatory response and lipid metabolism. Subsequently, from these, five proteins showed the strongest potential as radiation biomarkers in humans (C-reactive protein, Alpha amylase 1A, Mannose-binding protein C, Phospholipid transfer protein, and Complement C5). These candidate biomarkers might have implications for practical biological dosimetry.
PXD048008	38316932	Stepwise assembly and release of Tc toxins from Yersinia entomophaga. 	Assembly and release of a Tc toxin	toxins	Tc toxins are virulence factors of bacterial pathogens. Although their structure and intoxication mechanism are well understood, it remains elusive where this large macromolecular complex is assembled and how it is released. Here we show by an integrative multiscale imaging approach that Yersinia entomophaga Tc (YenTc) toxin components are expressed only in a subpopulation of cells that are 'primed' with several other potential virulence factors, including filaments of the protease M66/StcE. A phage-like lysis cassette is required for YenTc release; however, before resulting in complete cell lysis, the lysis cassette generates intermediate 'ghost' cells, which may serve as assembly compartments and become packed with assembled YenTc holotoxins. We hypothesize that this stepwise mechanism evolved to minimize the number of cells that need to be killed. The occurrence of similar lysis cassettes in diverse organisms indicates a conserved mechanism for Tc toxin release that may apply to other extracellular macromolecular machines.
PXD047812	38316990	The DDHD2-STXBP1 interaction mediates long-term memory via generation of saturated free fatty acids. 	DDHD2 interacts with STXBP1 to mediate long-term memory via the generation of saturated free fatty acidsDDHD2 interacts with STXBP1 to mediate long-term memory via the generation of saturated free fatty acids	Free Fatty Acids, Learning and Memory, Lipids, Myristic Acid, Phospholipase A1	The phospholipid and free fatty acid (FFA) composition of neuronal membranes plays a crucial role in learning and memory, but the mechanisms through which neuronal activity affects the brain's lipid landscape remain largely unexplored. The levels of saturated FFAs, particularly of myristic acid (C14:0), strongly increase during neuronal stimulation and memory acquisition, suggesting the involvement of phospholipase A1 (PLA1) activity in synaptic plasticity. Here, we show that genetic ablation of the PLA1 isoform DDHD2 in mice dramatically reduces saturated FFA responses to memory acquisition across the brain. Furthermore, DDHD2 loss also decreases memory performance in reward-based learning and spatial memory models prior to the development of neuromuscular deficits that mirror human spastic paraplegia. Via pulldown-mass spectrometry analyses, we find that DDHD2 binds to the key synaptic protein STXBP1. Using STXBP1/2 knockout neurosecretory cells and a haploinsufficient STXBP1(+/-) mouse model of human early infantile encephalopathy associated with intellectual disability and motor dysfunction, we show that STXBP1 controls targeting of DDHD2 to the plasma membrane and generation of saturated FFAs in the brain. These findings suggest key roles for DDHD2 and STXBP1 in lipid metabolism and in the processes of synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory.
PXD036380	38318387	Plasma and urine proteomics and gut microbiota analysis reveal potential factors affecting COVID-19 vaccination response. 	Clinical study on the plasma and urine proteomics and antibody titers after COVID-19 vaccination	COVID-19 vaccination, plasma, urine	The efficacy of COVID-19 vaccination relies on the induction of neutralizing antibodies, which can vary among vaccine recipients. In this study, we investigated the potential factors affecting the neutralizing antibody response by combining plasma and urine proteomics and gut microbiota analysis. We found that activation of the LXR/FXR pathway in plasma was associated with the production of ACE2-RBD-inhibiting antibodies, while urine proteins related to complement system, acute phase response signaling, LXR/FXR, and STAT3 pathways were correlated with neutralizing antibody production. Moreover, we observed a correlation between the gut microbiota and plasma and urine proteins, as well as the vaccination response. Based on the above data, we built a predictive model for vaccination response (AUC = 0.85). Our study provides insights into characteristic plasma and urine proteins and gut microbiota associated with the ACE2-RBD-inhibiting antibodies, which could benefit our understanding of the host response to COVID-19 vaccination.
PXD034977	38319909	Proteomics and life-history variability of Endogenous Phospholipases A2 Inhibitors (PLIs) in Bothrops jararaca plasma. 	Ontogenetic study of the composition of snake venom inhibitors and evaluation of the neutralizing activity of the gamma-type phospholipase inhibitor (gammaPLI) present in the plasma of Bothrops jararaca snake	Envenomation, PLA2 inhibitor, Phospholipases A2, Venomous snake	In Brazil, the genus Bothrops is responsible for most ophidian accidents. Snake venoms have a wide variety of proteins and peptides exhibiting a broad repertoire of pharmacological and toxic effects that elicit systemic injury and characteristic local effects. The snakes' natural resistance to envenomation caused by the presence of inhibitory compounds on their plasma have been extensively studied. However, the presence of these inhibitors in different developmental stages is yet to be further discussed. The aim of this study was to evaluate the ontogeny of Bothrops jararaca plasma inhibitor composition and, to this end, plasma samples of B. jararaca were obtained from different developmental stages (neonates, youngs, and adults) and sexes (female and male). SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, affinity chromatography, and mass spectrometry were performed to analyze the protein profile and interaction between B. jararaca plasma and venom proteins. In addition, the presence of gammaBjPLI, a PLA2 inhibitor previously identified and characterized in B. jararaca serum, was confirmed by Western blotting. According to our results, 9-17% of plasma proteins were capable of binding to venom proteins in the three developmental stages. The presence of different endogenous inhibitors and, more specifically, different PLA2 inhibitor (PLI) classes and antihemorrhagic factors were confirmed in specimens of B. jararaca from newborn by mass spectrometry. For the first time, the alphaPLI and betaPLI were detected in B. jararaca plasma, although low or no ontogenetic and sexual correlation were found. The gammaPLI were more abundant in adult female, than in neonate and young female, but similar to neonate, young and adult male according to the results of mass spectrometry analysis. Our results suggest that there are proteins in the plasma of these animals that can help counteract the effects of self-envenomation from birth.
PXD043621	38320249	Multitarget Potential Drug Candidates for High-Grade Gliomas Identified by Multiple Reaction Monitoring Coupled with In Silico Drug Repurposing. 	Multiple reaction monitoring based targeted validation of over-expressed proteins of high-grade gliomas	High-grade gliomas, brain tumor, glioblastoma, over-expressed protein markers	High-grade gliomas (HGGs) are extremely aggressive primary brain tumors with high mortality rates. Despite notable progress achieved by clinical research and biomarkers emerging from proteomics studies, efficacious drugs and therapeutic targets are limited. This study used targeted proteomics, in silico molecular docking, and simulation-based drug repurposing to identify potential drug candidates for HGGs. Importantly, we performed multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) on differentially expressed proteins with putative roles in the development and progression of HGGs based on our previous work and the published literature. Furthermore, in silico molecular docking-based drug repurposing was performed with a customized library of FDA-approved drugs to identify multitarget-directed ligands. The top drug candidates such as Pazopanib, Icotinib, Entrectinib, Regorafenib, and Cabozantinib were explored for their drug-likeness properties using the SwissADME. Pazopanib exhibited binding affinities with a maximum number of proteins and was considered for molecular dynamic simulations and cell toxicity assays. HGG cell lines showed enhanced cytotoxicity and cell proliferation inhibition with Pazopanib and Temozolomide combinatorial treatment compared to Temozolomide alone. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study combining MRM with molecular docking and simulation-based drug repurposing to identify potential drug candidates for HGG. While the present study identified five multitarget-directed potential drug candidates, future clinical studies in larger cohorts are crucial to evaluate the efficacy of these molecular candidates. The research strategy and methodology used in the present study offer new avenues for innovation in drug discovery and development which may prove useful, particularly for cancers with low cure rates.
PXD044444	38320981	Transfer of inflammatory mitochondria via extracellular vesicles from M1 macrophages induces ferroptosis of pancreatic beta cells in acute pancreatitis. 	Extracellular Vesicle Protein Expression Profile of Macrophages	EVs, Macrophages, Protein	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) exert a significant influence not only on the pathogenesis of diseases but also on their therapeutic interventions, contingent upon the variances observed in their originating cells. Mitochondria can be transported between cells via EVs to promote pathological changes. In this study, we found that EVs derived from M1 macrophages (M1-EVs), which encapsulate inflammatory mitochondria, can penetrate pancreatic beta cells. Inflammatory mitochondria fuse with the mitochondria of pancreatic beta cells, resulting in lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial disruption. Furthermore, fragments of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are released into the cytosol, activating the STING pathway and ultimately inducing apoptosis. The potential of adipose-derived stem cell (ADSC)-released EVs in suppressing M1 macrophage reactions shows promise. Subsequently, ADSC-EVs were utilized and modified with an F4/80 antibody to specifically target macrophages, aiming to treat ferroptosis of pancreatic beta cells in vivo. In summary, our data further demonstrate that EVs secreted from M1 phenotype macrophages play major roles in beta cell ferroptosis, and the modified ADSC-EVs exhibit considerable potential for development as a vehicle for targeted delivery to macrophages.
PXD043862	38321267	Qualitative rather than quantitative phosphoregulation shapes the end of meiosis I in budding yeast. 	Phosphoproteome dynamics at the transition from meiosis I to meiosis II	Cdk, meiosis, phosphoproteome	Exit from mitosis is brought about by dramatic changes in the phosphoproteome landscape. A drop in Cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) activity, the master regulatory kinase, and activation of counteracting phosphatases such as Cdc14 in budding yeast, results in ordered substrate dephosphorylation, allowing entry into a new cell cycle and replication licensing. In meiosis however, two cell divisions have to be executed without intermediate DNA replication, implying that global phosphorylation and dephosphorylation have to be adapted to the challenges of meiosis. Using a global time-resolved phosphoproteomics approach in budding yeast, we compared the phosphoproteome landscape between mitotic exit and the transition from meiosis I to meiosis II. We found that unlike exit from mitosis, Cdk phosphomotifs remain mostly stably phosphorylated at the end of meiosis I, whereas a majority of Cdk-unrelated motifs are reset by dephosphorylation. However, inducing an artificial drop of Cdk at metaphase of meiosis I leads to ordered substrate dephosphorylation, comparable to mitosis, indicating that phosphoregulation of substrates at the end of meiosis I is thus mainly qualitatively rather than quantitatively ordered.
PXD047171	38321535	Identification of specific markers for human pluripotent stem cell-derived small extracellular vesicles. 	Proteomic analysis of small extracellular vesicles derived from human iPSC	LS-MS/MS, iPSC	Pluripotent stem cell-derived small extracellular vesicles (PSC-sEVs) have demonstrated great clinical translational potential in multiple aging-related degenerative diseases. Characterizing the PSC-sEVs is crucial for their clinical applications. However, the specific marker pattern of PSC-sEVs remains unknown. Here, the sEVs derived from two typical types of PSCs including induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC-sEVs) and embryonic stem cells (ESC-sEVs) were analysed using proteomic analysis by liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and surface marker phenotyping analysis by nanoparticle flow cytometry (NanoFCM). A group of pluripotency-related proteins were found to be enriched in PSC-sEVs by LC-MS/MS and then validated by Western Blot analysis. To investigate whether these proteins were specifically expressed in PSC-sEVs, sEVs derived from seven types of non-PSCs (non-PSC-sEVs) were adopted for analysis. The results showed that PODXL, OCT4, Dnmt3a, and LIN28A were specifically enriched in PSC-sEVs but not in non-PSC-sEVs. Then, commonly used surface antigens for PSC identification (SSEA4, Tra-1-60 and Tra-1-81) and PODXL were gauged at single-particle resolution by NanoFCM for surface marker identification. The results showed that the positive rates of PODXL (>50%) and SSEA4 (>70%) in PSC-sEVs were much higher than those in non-PSC-sEVs (<10%). These results were further verified with samples purified by density gradient ultracentrifugation. Taken together, this study for the first time identified a cohort of specific markers for PSC-sEVs, among which PODXL, OCT4, Dnmt3a and LIN28A can be detected with Western Blot analysis, and PODXL and SSEA4 can be detected with NanoFCM analysis. The application of these specific markers for PSC-sEVs identification may advance the clinical translation of PSCs-sEVs.
PXD046786	38321568	Inhibition of choline metabolism in an angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma preclinical model reveals a new metabolic vulnerability as possible target for treatment. 	Inhibition of choline metabolism in an angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma preclinical model reveals a new treatment option	AITL, CDP-choline pathway, CDP-ethanolamine pathway, T cell lymphoma, cancer therapy, choline, choline kinase, lipid metabolism	BACKGROUND: Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is a malignancy with very poor survival outcome, in urgent need of more specific therapeutic strategies. The drivers of malignancy in this disease are CD4(+) follicular helper T cells (Tfh). The metabolism of these malignant Tfh cells was not yet elucidated. Therefore, we decided to identify their metabolic requirements with the objective to propose a novel therapeutic option. METHODS: To reveal the prominent metabolic pathways used by the AITL lymphoma cells, we relied on metabolomic and proteomic analysis of murine AITL (mAITL) T cells isolated from our established mAITL model. We confirmed these results using AITL patient and healthy T cell expression data. RESULTS: Strikingly, the mAITL Tfh cells were highly dependent on the second branch of the Kennedy pathway, the choline lipid pathway, responsible for the production of the major membrane constituent phosphatidylcholine. Moreover, gene expression data from Tfh cells isolated from AITL patient tumors, confirmed the upregulation of the choline lipid pathway. Several enzymes involved in this pathway such as choline kinase, catalyzing the first step in the phosphatidylcholine pathway, are upregulated in multiple tumors other than AITL. Here we showed that treatment of our mAITL preclinical mouse model with a fatty acid oxydation inhibitor, significantly increased their survival and even reverted the exhausted CD8 T cells in the tumor into potent cytotoxic anti-tumor cells. Specific inhibition of Chokalpha confirmed the importance of the phosphatidylcholine production pathway in neoplastic CD4 + T cells, nearly eradicating mAITL Tfh cells from the tumors. Finally, the same inhibitor induced in human AITL lymphoma biopsies cell death of the majority of the hAITL PD-1(high) neoplastic cells. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that interfering with choline metabolism in AITL reveals a specific metabolic vulnerability and might represent a new therapeutic strategy for these patients.
PXD039388	38321934	Tankyrase-1 regulates RBP-mediated mRNA turnover to promote muscle fiber formation. 	Tankyrase-1regulates RBP-mediated mRNA turnover to promotemuscle fiber formation.	HuR, Muscle, PARylation, Tankyrase, post-transcriptional regulation	Poly(ADP-ribosylation) (PARylation) is a post-translational modification mediated by a subset of ADP-ribosyl transferases (ARTs). Although PARylation-inhibition based therapies are considered as an avenue to combat debilitating diseases such as cancer and myopathies, the role of this modification in physiological processes such as cell differentiation remains unclear. Here, we show that Tankyrase1 (TNKS1), a PARylating ART, plays a major role in myogenesis, a vital process known to drive muscle fiber formation and regeneration. Although all bona fide PARPs are expressed in muscle cells, experiments using siRNA-mediated knockdown or pharmacological inhibition show that TNKS1 is the enzyme responsible of catalyzing PARylation during myogenesis. Via this activity, TNKS1 controls the turnover of mRNAs encoding myogenic regulatory factors such as nucleophosmin (NPM) and myogenin. TNKS1 mediates these effects by targeting RNA-binding proteins such as Human Antigen R (HuR). HuR harbors a conserved TNKS-binding motif (TBM), the mutation of which not only prevents the association of HuR with TNKS1 and its PARylation, but also precludes HuR from regulating the turnover of NPM and myogenin mRNAs as well as from promoting myogenesis. Therefore, our data uncover a new role for TNKS1 as a key modulator of RBP-mediated post-transcriptional events required for vital processes such as myogenesis.
PXD033079	38322992	Remodeling of the endothelial cell transcriptional program via paracrine and DNA-binding activities of MPO. 	: Remodelling of the endothelial cell transcriptional program via paracrine and DNA-binding activities of MPO	ILF3, co-immunoprecipitation, endothelial cells, myeloperoxidase	Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is an enzyme that functions in host defense. MPO is released into the vascular lumen by neutrophils during inflammation and may adhere and subsequently penetrate endothelial cells (ECs) coating vascular walls. We show that MPO enters the nucleus of ECs and binds chromatin independently of its enzymatic activity. MPO drives chromatin decondensation at its binding sites and enhances condensation at neighboring regions. It binds loci relevant for endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) and affects the migratory potential of ECs. Finally, MPO interacts with the RNA-binding factor ILF3 thereby affecting its relative abundance between cytoplasm and nucleus. This interaction leads to change in stability of ILF3-bound transcripts. MPO-knockout mice exhibit reduced number of ECs at scar sites following myocardial infarction, indicating reduced neovascularization. In summary, we describe a non-enzymatic role for MPO in coordinating EndMT and controlling the fate of endothelial cells through direct chromatin binding and association with co-factors.
PXD045135	38323850	A novel mechanism for dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium in Acididesulfobacillus acetoxydans. 	Nitrate reduction to ammonia by Acididesulfobacillus acetoxydans, an acidophilic sulfate reducing bacterium	Acididesulfobacillus acetoxydans, DNRA, acid mine drainage, acidophilic sulfate reducing bacteria, ammonification, nitrate reduction	The biological route of nitrate reduction has important implications for the bioavailability of nitrogen within ecosystems. Nitrate reduction via nitrite, either to ammonium (ammonification) or to nitrous oxide or dinitrogen (denitrification), determines whether nitrogen is retained within the system or lost as a gas. The acidophilic sulfate-reducing bacterium (aSRB) Acididesulfobacillus acetoxydans can perform dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA). While encoding a Nar-type nitrate reductase, A. acetoxydans lacks recognized nitrite reductase genes. In this study, A. acetoxydans was cultivated under conditions conducive to DNRA. During cultivations, we monitored the production of potential nitrogen intermediates (nitrate, nitrite, nitric oxide, hydroxylamine, and ammonium). Resting cell experiments were performed with nitrate, nitrite, and hydroxylamine to confirm their reduction to ammonium, and formed intermediates were tracked. To identify the enzymes involved in DNRA, comparative transcriptomics and proteomics were performed with A. acetoxydans growing under nitrate- and sulfate-reducing conditions. Nitrite is likely reduced to ammonia by the previously undescribed nitrite reductase activity of the NADH-linked sulfite reductase AsrABC, or by a putatively ferredoxin-dependent homolog of the nitrite reductase NirA (DEACI_1836), or both. We identified enzymes and intermediates not previously associated with DNRA and nitrosative stress in aSRB. This increases our knowledge about the metabolism of this type of bacteria and helps the interpretation of (meta)genome data from various ecosystems on their DNRA potential and the nitrogen cycle.IMPORTANCENitrogen is crucial to any ecosystem, and its bioavailability depends on microbial nitrogen-transforming reactions. Over the recent years, various new nitrogen-transforming reactions and pathways have been identified, expanding our view on the nitrogen cycle and metabolic versatility. In this study, we elucidate a novel mechanism employed by Acididesulfobacillus acetoxydans, an acidophilic sulfate-reducing bacterium, to reduce nitrate to ammonium. This finding underscores the diverse physiological nature of dissimilatory reduction to ammonium (DNRA). A. acetoxydans was isolated from acid mine drainage, an extremely acidic environment where nitrogen metabolism is poorly studied. Our findings will contribute to understanding DNRA potential and variations in extremely acidic environments.
PXD046796	38324652	Probing Blood Plasma Protein Glycosylation with Infrared Spectroscopy. 	Probing Blood Plasma Protein Glycosylation with Infrared Spectroscopy	glycoproteins, glycosylation, infrared spectroscopy, ion exchange chromatography, plasma	The health state of an individual is closely linked to the glycosylation patterns of his or her blood plasma proteins. However, obtaining this information requires cost- and time-efficient analytical methods. We put forward infrared spectroscopy, which allows label-free analysis of protein glycosylation but so far has only been applied to analysis of individual proteins. Although spectral information does not directly provide the molecular structure of the glycans, it is sensitive to changes therein and covers all types of glycosidic linkages. Combining single-step ion exchange chromatography with infrared spectroscopy, we developed a workflow that enables the separation and analysis of major protein classes in blood plasma. Our results demonstrate that infrared spectroscopy can identify different patterns and global levels of glycosylation of intact plasma proteins. To showcase the strengths and limitations of the proposed approach, we compare the glycoforms of human and bovine alpha-1-acid glycoproteins, which exhibit highly variable global levels of glycosylation. To independently evaluate our conclusions, the glycan moieties of human alpha-1-acid glycoprotein were further analyzed using an established glycomics workflow. Importantly, the chromatographic separation of blood plasma improves the detection of aberrant glycoforms of a given protein as compared to infrared spectroscopy of bulk plasma. The presented approach allows a time-efficient comparison of glycosylation patterns of multiple plasma proteins, opening new avenues for biomedical probing.
PXD047114	38325337	Ketone flux through BDH1 supports metabolic remodeling of skeletal and cardiac muscles in response to intermittent time-restricted feeding. 	Ketone flux through BDH1 supports metabolic remodeling of skeletal and cardiac muscles in response to intermittent time-restricted feeding	Mitochondria, heart, ketone bodies, skeletal muscle	Time-restricted feeding (TRF) has gained attention as a dietary regimen that promotes metabolic health. This study questioned if the health benefits of an intermittent TRF (iTRF) schedule require ketone flux specifically in skeletal and cardiac muscles. Notably, we found that the ketolytic enzyme beta-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase 1 (BDH1) is uniquely enriched in isolated mitochondria derived from heart and red/oxidative skeletal muscles, which also have high capacity for fatty acid oxidation (FAO). Using mice with BDH1 deficiency in striated muscles, we discover that this enzyme optimizes FAO efficiency and exercise tolerance during acute fasting. Additionally, iTRF leads to robust molecular remodeling of muscle tissues, and muscle BDH1 flux does indeed play an essential role in conferring the full adaptive benefits of this regimen, including increased lean mass, mitochondrial hormesis, and metabolic rerouting of pyruvate. In sum, ketone flux enhances mitochondrial bioenergetics and supports iTRF-induced remodeling of skeletal muscle and heart.
PXD048039	38326335	The role of extracellular vesicle fusion with target cells in triggering systemic inflammation. 	The Role of Extracellular Vesicle Fusion with Target Cells in Triggering Systemic Inflammation	Extracellular vesicles, IL1R1 and phosphorylation, STXBP1, TNFR1, exosomes, fusion, receptors	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) play a crucial role in intercellular communication by transferring bioactive molecules from donor to recipient cells. As a result, EV fusion leads to the modulation of cellular functions and has an impact on both physiological and pathological processes in the recipient cell. This study explores the impact of EV fusion on cellular responses to inflammatory signaling. Our findings reveal that fusion renders non-responsive cells susceptible to inflammatory signaling, as evidenced by increased NF-kappaB activation and the release of inflammatory mediators. Syntaxin-binding protein 1 is essential for the merge and activation of intracellular signaling. Subsequent analysis show that EVs transfer their functionally active receptors to target cells, making them prone to an otherwise unresponsive state. EVs in complex with their agonist, require no further stimulation of the target cells to trigger mobilization of NF-kappaB. While receptor antagonists were unable to inhibit NF-kappaB activation, blocking of the fusion between EVs and their target cells with heparin mitigated inflammation in mice challenged with EVs.
PXD044777	38326801	De-obstruction of bladder outlet in humans reverses organ remodelling by normalizing the expression of key transcription factors. 	De-obstruction of bladder outlet in humans reverses organ remodeling	bladder, fibrosis, outlet obstruction, remodelling	BACKGROUND: Benign prostatic hyperplasia in elderly males often causes bladder outlet obstruction termed benign prostatic obstruction (BPO). BPO induces lower urinary tract symptoms and quantifiable urodynamic alterations in bladder function. When conservative medical treatments are exhausted, surgical interventions like transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) are employed for bladder outlet de-obstruction. Elucidating the molecular changes in the human bladder resulting from BPO and their reversal post-de-obstruction is pivotal for defining the "point of no return", when the organ deterioration becomes irreversible. In this study we carried out a comprehensive molecular and urodynamic characterization of the bladders in men with BPO before TURP and 3 months after the relief of obstruction. METHODS: We report integrated transcriptome and proteome analysis of bladder samples from male patients with BPO before and 3 months after de-obstruction surgery (TURP). mRNA and protein profiles were correlated with urodynamic findings, specifically voiding detrusor pressure (PdetQmax) before TURP. We delineated the molecular classifiers of each group, pointing at the different pre-TURP bladder status. RESULTS: Age-matched patients with BPO without DO were divided into two groups based on the PdetQmax values recorded by UDI before de-obstruction: high and medium pressure (HP and MP) groups. Three months after de-obstruction surgery, the voiding parameters PdetQmax, Qmax and RV were significantly improved in both groups, without notable inter-group differences in the values after TURP. Patients with high PdetQmax showed less advanced remodeling and inflammatory changes than those with lower values. We detected significant dysregulation of gene expression, which was at least partially reversed by de-obstruction in both patients' groups. Transcription factor SOX21 and its target thrombospondin 4 (THBS4) demonstrated normalization post-TURP. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal substantial yet incomplete reversal of cell signalling pathways three months after TURP, consistent with improved urodynamic parameters. We propose a set of biomarker genes, indicative of BPO, and possibly contributing to the bladder changes. This study unveils the stages of progressive obstruction-induced bladder decompensation and offers insights into selecting an optimal intervention point to mitigate loss of contractility.
PXD044755	38327087	A Simplified Label-Free Method for Proteotyping Sets of Six Isolates in a Single Liquid Chromatography-High-Resolution Tandem Mass Spectrometry Analysis. 	Proteotyping of sets of six microbial isolates by tandem mass spectrometry.	bacteria, identification, multiplexing, proteotyping, species, taxonomy	Clinical diagnostics and microbiology require high-throughput identification of microorganisms. Sample multiplexing prior to detection is an attractive means to reduce analysis costs and time-to-result. Recent studies have demonstrated the discriminative power of tandem mass spectrometry-based proteotyping. This technology can rapidly identify the most likely taxonomical position of any microorganism, even uncharacterized organisms. Here, we present a simplified label-free multiplexing method to proteotype isolates by tandem mass spectrometry that can identify six microorganisms in a single 20 min analytical run. The strategy involves the production of peptide fractions with distinct hydrophobicity profiles using spin column fractionation. Assemblages of different fractions can then be analyzed using mass spectrometry. Results are subsequently interpreted based on the hydrophobic characteristics of the peptides detected, which make it possible to link each taxon identified to the initial sample. The methodology was tested on 32 distinct sets of six organisms including several worst-scenario assemblages-with differences in sample quantities or the presence of the same organisms in multiple fractions-and proved to be robust. These results pave the way for the deployment of tandem mass spectrometry-based proteotyping in microbiology laboratories.
PXD046884	38327793	A small-molecule degrader selectively inhibits the growth of ALK-rearranged lung cancer with ceritinib resistance. 	Proteomic analysis of protein abundance after dEALK1 or dEALK1Me treatment in H3122 cells non-small cell lung cancer cells	EML4-ALK, PROTAC, non-small cell lung cancer	Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is a highly responsive therapeutic target for ALK-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, patients with this cancer invariably relapse because of the development of ALK inhibitor resistance resulting from mutations within the ALK tyrosine kinase domain. Herein, we report the discovery of dEALK1, a small-molecule degrader of EML4-ALK fusion proteins, with capability of overcoming resistance to ALK inhibitor ceritinib. dEALK1 induces rapid and selective degradation of wild-type (WT) EML4-ALK and mutated EML4-ALKs acquiring resistance to ceritinib, leading to inhibition of cell proliferation and increase of apoptosis in NSCLC cells expressing WT EML4-ALK or ceritinib-resistant EML4-ALK mutants in vitro. Furthermore, dEALK1 also exerts a potent antitumor activity against EML4-ALK-positive xenograft tumors without or with harboring ceritinib-resistant EML4-ALK mutations in vivo. Our study suggests that dEALK1-induced degradation of EML4-ALK fusion proteins is a promising therapeutic strategy for treatment of ALK-rearranged lung cancer with ceritinib resistance.
PXD041806	38328826	Plasminogen deficiency exacerbates skeletal muscle loss during mechanical unloading in developing mice. 	Plasminogen deficiency exacerbates skeletal muscle loss during mechanical unloading in developing mice	gastrocnemius muscle, microgravity, spaceflight	Mechanical-unloading-induced skeletal muscle atrophy results in physical frailty and disability. Elucidating its mechanism is required to establish effective countermeasures for this muscle adaptation. First, we analyzed the proteome profile in the gastrocnemius (Gast) and soleus muscles of space-flown mice raised under microgravity or artificial 1-g for 30 days, and found that the expression levels of fibrinolysis-related proteins were significantly elevated in the mechanical-unloaded muscles. Next, we investigated the roles of the fibrinolytic system in skeletal muscle atrophy induced by mechanical unloading on the ground. Eight-week-old male mice with plasminogen gene deficiency (Plg(-/-)) and their wild-type littermates were divided into control and hindlimb-suspended groups, and were raised for 21 days. Plasminogen deficiency significantly enhanced the decrease in muscle mass at the lower limbs of mice following hindlimb unloading, and the Gast muscle atrophy was more prominent in Plg(-/-) mice. Additionally, plasminogen deficiency significantly increased the expression of autophagy-related markers, beclin1 mRNA and LC3B protein, in the mechanical-unloaded Gast muscles, but did not affect the increase in the gene expression of ubiquitin ligases, atrogin-1 and MuRF1. Neither plasminogen deficiency nor hindlimb unloading affected the Akt/mechanistic target of rapamycin pathway in the Gast muscles. These results suggested that plasminogen deficiency might accelerate protein breakdown via the autophagy-lysosome, but not the ubiquitin-proteasome, system in the mechanical-unloaded Gast muscles. In conclusion, we first showed that plasminogen deficiency exacerbated the Gast muscle atrophy in hindlimb-unloaded mice. Plasminogen and the fibrinolysis system might play some protective roles against muscle atrophy induced by mechanical unloading in developing mice.
PXD048187	38331889	The cross talk between type II diabetic microenvironment and the regenerative capacities of human adipose tissue-derived pericytes: a promising cell therapy. 	Crosstalk between type 2 diabetic microenvironment and human adipose tissue- derived pericytes	adipose tissue, pericytes	BACKGROUND: Pericytes (PCs) are multipotent contractile cells that wrap around the endothelial cells (ECs) to maintain the blood vessel's functionality and integrity. The hyperglycemia associated with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) was shown to impair the function of PCs and increase the risk of diabetes complications. In this study, we aimed to investigate the deleterious effect of the diabetic microenvironment on the regenerative capacities of human PCs. METHODS: PCs isolated from human adipose tissue were cultured in the presence or absence of serum collected from diabetic patients. The functionality of PCs was analyzed after 6, 14, and 30 days. RESULTS: Microscopic examination of PCs cultured in DS (DS-PCs) showed increased aggregate formation and altered surface topography with hyperbolic invaginations. Compared to PCs cultured in normal serum (NS-PCs), DS-PCs showed more fragmented mitochondria and thicker nuclear membrane. DS caused impaired angiogenic differentiation of PCs as confirmed by tube formation, decreased VEGF-A and IGF-1 gene expression, upregulated TSP1, PF4, actin-related protein 2/3 complex, and downregulated COL21A1 protein expression. These cells suffered more pronounced apoptosis and showed higher expression of Clic4, apoptosis facilitator BCl-2-like protein, serine/threonine protein phosphatase, and caspase-7 proteins. DS-PCs showed dysregulated DNA repair genes CDKN1A, SIRT1, XRCC5 TERF2, and upregulation of the pro-inflammatory genes ICAM1, IL-6, and TNF-alpha. Further, DS-treated cells also showed disruption in the expression of the focal adhesion and binding proteins TSP1, TGF-beta, fibronectin, and PCDH7. Interestingly, DS-PCs showed resistance mechanisms upon exposure to diabetic microenvironment by maintaining the intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) level and upregulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) organizing proteins as vinculin, IQGAP1, and tubulin beta chain. CONCLUSION: These data showed that the diabetic microenvironment exert a deleterious effect on the regenerative capacities of human adipose tissue-derived PCs, and may thus have possible implications on the vascular complications of T2DM. Nevertheless, PCs have shown remarkable protective mechanisms when initially exposed to DS and thus they could provide a promising cellular therapy for T2DM.
PXD047134	38331996	Large-scale proteomics analysis of five brain regions from Parkinson's disease patients with a GBA1 mutation. 	Large-scale proteomics analysis of five brain regions from Parkinson's disease patients with a GBA1 mutation	Gaucher disease, Lysosomal storage disorders, Parkinson's disease, proteomics., alpha-synuclein	Despite being the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, little is known about Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. A number of genetic factors predispose towards PD, among them mutations in GBA1, which encodes the lysosomal enzyme acid-beta-glucosidase. We now perform non-targeted, mass spectrometry based quantitative proteomics on five brain regions from PD patients with a GBA1 mutation (PD-GBA) and compare to age- and sex-matched idiopathic PD patients (IPD) and controls. Two proteins were differentially-expressed in all five brain regions whereas significant differences were detected between the brain regions, with changes consistent with loss of dopaminergic signaling in the substantia nigra, and activation of a number of pathways in the cingulate gyrus, including ceramide synthesis. Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation was inactivated in PD samples in most brain regions and to a larger extent in PD-GBA. This study provides a comprehensive large-scale proteomics dataset for the study of PD-GBA.
PXD044430	38332048	DDHD2, whose mutations cause spastic paraplegia type 54, enhances lipophagy via engaging ATG8 family proteins. 	DDHD2, whose mutation causes spastic paraplegia type 54, is cargo receptor for lipophagy	DDHD2, Lipophage, SPG54	Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is a group of inherited neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive lower limb spasticity and weakness. One subtype of HSP, known as SPG54, is caused by biallelic mutations in the DDHD2 gene. The primary pathological feature observed in patients with SPG54 is the massive accumulation of lipid droplets (LDs) in the brain. However, the precise mechanisms and roles of DDHD2 in regulating lipid homeostasis are not yet fully understood. Through Affinity Purification-Mass Spectroscopy (AP-MS) analysis, we identify that DDHD2 interacts with multiple members of the ATG8 family proteins (LC3, GABARAPs), which play crucial roles in lipophagy. Mutational analysis reveals the presence of two authentic LIR motifs in DDHD2 protein that are essential for its binding to LC3/GABARAPs. We show that DDHD2 deficiency leads to LD accumulation, while enhanced DDHD2 expression reduces LD formation. The LC3/GABARAP-binding capacity of DDHD2 and the canonical autophagy pathway both contribute to its LD-eliminating activity. Moreover, DDHD2 enhances the colocalization between LC3B and LDs to promote lipophagy. LD.ATTEC, a small molecule that tethers LC3 to LDs to enhance their autophagic clearance, effectively counteracts DDHD2 deficiency-induced LD accumulation. These findings provide valuable insights into the regulatory roles of DDHD2 in LD catabolism and offer a potential therapeutic approach for treating SPG54 patients.
PXD035174	38332513	Livin expression promotes keratinocyte release of inflammatory mediators in psoriasis. 	Livin is upregulated in keratinocytes and promotes the release of inflammatory mediators in psoriasis	Livin, inflammatory mediators, keratinocytes, psoriasis	BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a prevalent, long-term skin condition characterized by inflammation. Keratinocytes (KCs) are important effector cells that release inflammatory factors and chemokines to promote the inflammatory cascade in psoriasis. However, the mechanisms underlying the activation of KCs in psoriasis remain unclear. Livin suppresses apoptotic proteins and directly affects the growth and spread of cancer cells. Livin expression reportedly increases significantly in lesions of patients with psoriasis; however, its specific role in KC activation remains unknown. This study aimed to examine the impact of Livin on KC activation and the subsequent release of inflammatory mediators. METHODS: Immunofluorescence staining, reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and western blotting were used to assess Livin expression in patients with psoriasis, an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis-like mouse model, and M5-treated HaCaT cells. To investigate the role of Livin in KCs, we performed RNA sequencing and proteomic analysis of Livin-knockdown (knockdown-HaCaT) and negative control (NC-HaCaT) cells. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes were used for enrichment analyses. Moreover, the effect of Livin expression on the release of inflammatory mediators in KCs was verified using ELISA. RESULTS: Livin expression was higher in KCs of patients with psoriasis than in those healthy controls. Livin expression in HaCaT cells treated with M5 increased significantly over time. Livin expression was higher in the skin lesions of the IMQ mouse model than in the control group. Proteomic analysis and RNA sequencing used to investigate the function of Livin in HaCaT cells revealed its potential role in mediating KC activation and inflammatory mediator release, which affected the pathology of psoriasis. CONCLUSIONS: Livin expression played an effect on KCs activation, which induced release of inflammatory mediators and up-regulation of keratin. This study provides a new effector molecule for the mechanism of inflammatory response in psoriasis.
PXD037047	38333691	Peptidomic analysis of endogenous and bacterial protease activity in human plasma and wound fluids. 	Peptidomic analysis of bacterial protease activity in acute wound fluids	peptidome, wound fluids proteases	Endogenous and bacterial proteases play important roles in wound healing and infection. Analysis of alterations in the low-molecular-weight peptidome by individual enzymes could therefore provide insight into proteolytic events occurring in wounds and may aid in the discovery of biomarkers. Using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry, we characterized the peptidome of plasma and acute wound fluids digested ex vivo with human (neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G) and bacterial proteases (Pseudomonas aeruginosa LasB and Staphyloccocus aureus V8). We identified over 100 protein targets for each enzyme and characterized enzyme specific peptides and cleavage patterns. Moreover, we found unique peptide regions in V8 digested samples that were also present in dressing extracts from S. aureus infected wounds. Finally, the work indicates that peptidomic analysis of qualitative differences of proteolytic activity of individual enzymes may aid in the discovery of potential diagnostic biomarkers for wound healing status.
PXD041209	38333705	Relative impact of three growth conditions on the Escherichia coli protein acetylome. 	The impact of culture conditions on E. coli acetylome and proteome	E. coli, LC-MS, Lysine acetylation, PTM, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, fluxes, metabolism regulation	Nepsilon-lysine acetylation is a common posttranslational modification observed in Escherichia coli. In the present study, integrative analysis of the proteome and acetylome was performed using label-free quantitative mass spectrometry to analyze the relative influence of three factors affecting growth. The results revealed differences in the proteome, mainly owing to the type of culture medium used (defined or complex). In the acetylome, 7482 unique acetylation sites were identified. Acetylation is directly related to the abundance of proteins, and the level of acetylation in each type of culture is associated with extracellular acetate concentration. Furthermore, most acetylated lysines in the exponential phase remained in the stationary phase without dynamic turnover. Interestingly, unique acetylation sites were detected in proteins whose presence or abundance was linked to the type of culture medium. Finally, the biological function of the acetylation changes was demonstrated for three central metabolic proteins (GapA, Mdh, and AceA).
PXD043783	38334196	Pharmaco-phosphoproteomic analysis of cancer-associated KIT mutations D816V and V560G. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of D816V- and V560G-mutant KIT cells	AML, KIT, Phosphoproteomics	The CD117 mast/stem cell growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) is critical for haematopoiesis, melanogenesis and stem cell maintenance. KIT is commonly activated by mutation in cancers including acute myeloid leukaemia, melanoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs). The kinase and the juxtamembrane domains of KIT are mutation hotspots; with the kinase domain mutation D816V common in leukaemia and the juxtamembrane domain mutation V560G common in GISTs. Given the importance of mutant KIT signalling in cancer, we have conducted a proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of myeloid progenitor cells expressing D816V- and V560G-KIT mutants, using an FDCP1 isogenic cell line model. Proteomic analysis revealed increased abundance of proteases and growth signalling proteins in KIT-mutant cells compared to empty vector (EV) controls. Pathway analysis identified increased oxidative phosphorylation in D816V- and V560G-mutant KIT cells, which was targetable using the inhibitor IACS010759. Dysregulation of RNA metabolism and cytoskeleton/adhesion pathways was identified in both the proteome and phosphoproteome of KIT-mutant cells. Phosphoproteome analysis further revealed active kinases such as EGFR, ERK and PKC, which were targetable using pharmacological inhibitors. This study provides a pharmaco-phosphoproteomic profile of D816V- and V560G-mutant KIT cells, which reveals novel therapeutic strategies that may be applicable to a range of cancers.
PXD046966	38334954	DSBSO-Based XL-MS Analysis of Breast Cancer PDX Tissues to Delineate Protein Interaction Network in Clinical Samples. 	DSBSO-based XL-MS Analysis of Breast Cancer PDX Tissues to Delineate Protein Interaction Network in Clinical Samples	PDX, breast cancer, cross-linking mass spectrometry	Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are fundamental to understanding biological systems as protein complexes are the active molecular modules critical for carrying out cellular functions. Dysfunctional PPIs have been associated with various diseases including cancer. Systems-wide PPI analysis not only sheds light on pathological mechanisms, but also represents a paradigm in identifying potential therapeutic targets. In recent years, cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has emerged as a powerful tool for defining endogenous PPIs of cellular networks. While proteome-wide studies have been performed in cell lysates, intact cells and tissues, applications of XL-MS in clinical samples have not been reported. In this study, we adopted a DSBSO-based in vivo XL-MS platform to map interaction landscapes from two breast cancer patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. As a result, we have generated a PDX interaction network comprising 2,557 human proteins and identified interactions unique to breast cancer subtypes. Interestingly, most of the observed differences in PPIs correlated well with protein abundance changes determined by TMT-based proteome quantitation. Collectively, this work has demonstrated the feasibility of XL-MS analysis in clinical samples, and established an analytical workflow for tissue cross-linking that can be generalized for mapping PPIs from patient samples in the future to dissect disease-relevant cellular networks.
PXD048283	38335281	Sequential CRISPR screening reveals partial NatB inhibition as a strategy to mitigate alpha-synuclein levels in human neurons. 	Sequential CRISPR screening reveals partial NatB inhibition as a strategy to mitigate alpha-synuclein levels in human neurons	Alpha-synuclein, CRISPR, NatB inhibition, Parkinsons disease, human neurons	Alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn) protein levels correlate with the risk and severity of Parkinson's disease and related neurodegenerative diseases. Lowering alphaSyn is being actively investigated as a therapeutic modality. Here, we systematically map the regulatory network that controls endogenous alphaSyn using sequential CRISPR-knockout and -interference screens in an alphaSyn gene (SNCA)-tagged cell line and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons (iNeurons). We uncover alphaSyn modifiers at multiple regulatory layers, with amino-terminal acetyltransferase B (NatB) enzymes being the most potent endogenous alphaSyn modifiers in both cell lines. Amino-terminal acetylation protects the cytosolic alphaSyn from rapid degradation by the proteasome in a Ube2w-dependent manner. Moreover, we show that pharmacological inhibition of methionyl-aminopeptidase 2, a regulator of NatB complex formation, attenuates endogenous alphaSyn in iNeurons carrying SNCA triplication. Together, our study reveals several gene networks that control endogenous alphaSyn, identifies mechanisms mediating the degradation of nonacetylated alphaSyn, and illustrates potential therapeutic pathways for decreasing alphaSyn levels in synucleinopathies.
PXD048185	38335961	ALS-related p97 R155H mutation disrupts lysophagy in iPSC-derived motor neurons. 	ALS-related p97 R155H mutation disrupts lysophagy in iPSC-derived motor neurons	CB-5083, Human motor neurons, UBXD1, lysosome, p97	Mutations in the AAA+ ATPase p97 cause multisystem proteinopathy 1, which includes amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; however, the pathogenic mechanisms that contribute to motor neuron loss remain obscure. Here, we use two induced pluripotent stem cell models differentiated into spinal motor neurons to investigate how p97 mutations perturb the motor neuron proteome. Using quantitative proteomics, we find that motor neurons harboring the p97 R155H mutation have deficits in the selective autophagy of lysosomes (lysophagy). p97 R155H motor neurons are unable to clear damaged lysosomes and have reduced viability. Lysosomes in mutant motor neurons have increased pH compared with wild-type cells. The clearance of damaged lysosomes involves UBXD1-p97 interaction, which is disrupted in mutant motor neurons. Finally, inhibition of the ATPase activity of p97 using the inhibitor CB-5083 rescues lysophagy defects in mutant motor neurons. These results add to the evidence that endo-lysosomal dysfunction is a key aspect of disease pathogenesis in p97-related disorders.
PXD044668	38336175	SECRET AGENT O-GlcNAcylates hundreds of proteins involved in diverse cellular processes in Arabidopsis. 	Quantitative O-GlcNAc analysis between wild type and sec-5 using SILIA  (F1 on QE-HF) and Eclipse (HCD)	Lectin weak affinity chromatography (LWAC), O-GlcNAcylation, proteomics.	O-GlcNAcylation is a critical post-translational modification of proteins observed in both plants and animals and plays a key role in growth and development. While considerable knowledge exists about over 3000 substrates in animals, our understanding of this modification in plants remains limited. Unlike animals, plants possess two putative homologs: SECRET AGENT (SEC) and SPINDLY (SPY), with SPY also exhibiting O-fucosylation activity. To investigate SEC's role as a major O-GlcNAc transferase in plants, we utilized LWAC enrichment and SILIA labeling, quantifying at both MS1 and MS2 levels. Our findings reveal a significant reduction in O-GlcNAc levels in the sec mutant, indicating SEC's critical role in mediating O-GlcNAcylation. Through a comprehensive approach, combining HCD and EThcD fragmentation with substantial fractionations, we expanded our GlcNAc profiling, identifying 436 O-GlcNAc targets, including 227 new targets. The targets span diverse cellular processes, suggesting broad regulatory functions of O-GlcNAcylation. The expanded targets also enabled exploration of crosstalk between O-GlcNAcylation and O-fucosylation. We also examined EThcD fragmentation for site assignment. This report advances our understanding of O-GlcNAcylation in plants, facilitating further research in this field.
PXD045203	38336780	COSMIC-based mutation database enhances identification efficiency of HLA-I immunopeptidome. 	HepG2 HLA-I immunopeptidome by immunoprecipitation	HLA immunopeptidome, HepG2 cell line	BACKGROUND: Neoantigens have emerged as a promising area of focus in tumor immunotherapy, with several established strategies aiming to enhance their identification. Human leukocyte antigen class I molecules (HLA-I), which present intracellular immunopeptides to T cells, provide an ideal source for identifying neoantigens. However, solely relying on a mutation database generated through commonly used whole exome sequencing (WES) for the identification of HLA-I immunopeptides, may result in potential neoantigens being missed due to limitations in sequencing depth and sample quality. METHOD: In this study, we constructed and evaluated an extended database for neoantigen identification, based on COSMIC mutation database. This study utilized mass spectrometry-based proteogenomic profiling to identify the HLA-I immunopeptidome enriched from HepG2 cell. HepG2 WES-based and the COSMIC-based mutation database were generated and utilized to identify HepG2-specific mutant immunopeptides. RESULT: The results demonstrated that COSMIC-based database identified 5 immunopeptides compared to only 1 mutant peptide identified by HepG2 WES-based database, indicating its effectiveness in identifying mutant immunopeptides. Furthermore, HLA-I affinity of the mutant immunopeptides was evaluated through NetMHCpan and peptide-docking modeling to validate their binding to HLA-I molecules, demonstrating the potential of mutant peptides identified by the COSMIC-based database as neoantigens. CONCLUSION: Utilizing the COSMIC-based mutation database is a more efficient strategy for identifying mutant peptides from HLA-I immunopeptidome without significantly increasing the false positive rate. HepG2 specific WES-based database may exclude certain mutant peptides due to WES sequencing depth or sample heterogeneity. The COSMIC-based database can effectively uncover potential neoantigens within the HLA-I immunopeptidomes.
PXD047284	38338831	The Proteomic Analysis of Cancer-Related Alterations in the Human Unfoldome. 	Proteomic analysis of cancer-related alterations in the human unfoldome	Cancer, IDPs, Unfoldome	Many proteins lack stable 3D structures. These intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) or hybrid proteins containing ordered domains with intrinsically disordered protein regions (IDPRs) often carry out regulatory functions related to molecular recognition and signal transduction. IDPs/IDPRs constitute a substantial portion of the human proteome and are termed "the unfoldome". Herein, we probe the human breast cancer unfoldome and investigate relations between IDPs and key disease genes and pathways. We utilized bottom-up proteomics, MudPIT (Multidimensional Protein Identification Technology), to profile differentially expressed IDPs in human normal (MCF-10A) and breast cancer (BT-549) cell lines. Overall, we identified 2271 protein groups in the unfoldome of normal and cancer proteomes, with 148 IDPs found to be significantly differentially expressed in cancer cells. Further analysis produced annotations of 140 IDPs, which were then classified to GO (Gene Ontology) categories and pathways. In total, 65% (91 of 140) IDPs were related to various diseases, and 20% (28 of 140) mapped to cancer terms. A substantial portion of the differentially expressed IDPs contained disordered regions, confirmed by in silico characterization. Overall, our analyses suggest high levels of interactivity in the human cancer unfoldome and a prevalence of moderately and highly disordered proteins in the network.
PXD046846	38338867	CD99 Modulates the Proteomic Landscape of Ewing Sarcoma Cells and Related Extracellular Vesicles. 	CD99 modulates the proteomic landscape of Ewing sarcoma cells and related-extracellular vesicles.	Ewing sarcoma, biomarkers, extracellular vesicles., heterogeneity	Ewing sarcoma (EWS) is an aggressive pediatric bone tumor characterized by unmet clinical needs and an incompletely understood epigenetic heterogeneity. Here, we considered CD99, a major surface molecule hallmark of EWS malignancy. Fluctuations in CD99 expression strongly impair cell dissemination, differentiation, and death. CD99 is also loaded within extracellular vesicles (EVs), and the delivery of CD99-positive or CD99-negative EVs dynamically exerts oncogenic or oncosuppressive functions to recipient cells, respectively. We undertook mass spectrometry and functional annotation analysis to investigate the consequences of CD99 silencing on the proteomic landscape of EWS cells and related EVs. Our data demonstrate that (i) the decrease in CD99 leads to major changes in the proteomic profile of EWS cells and EVs; (ii) intracellular and extracellular compartments display two distinct signatures of differentially expressed proteins; (iii) proteomic changes converge to the modulation of cell migration and immune-modulation biological processes; and (iv) CD99-silenced cells and related EVs are characterized by a migration-suppressive, pro-immunostimulatory proteomic profile. Overall, our data provide a novel source of CD99-associated protein biomarkers to be considered for further validation as mediators of EWS malignancy and as EWS disease liquid biopsy markers.
PXD048074	38339272	Surface Proteome of Extracellular Vesicles and Correlation Analysis Reveal Breast Cancer Biomarkers. 	Surface Proteome of Extracellular Vesicles and Correlation Analysis for Identification of Breast Cancer Biomarkers	Biomarkers, Breast cancer, Extracellular vesicles, Surface proteins	Breast cancer (BC) is the second most frequently diagnosed cancer and accounts for approximately 25% of new cancer cases in Canadian women. Using biomarkers as a less-invasive BC diagnostic method is currently under investigation but is not ready for practical application in clinical settings. During the last decade, extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as a promising source of biomarkers because they contain cancer-derived proteins, RNAs, and metabolites. In this study, EV proteins from small EVs (sEVs) and medium EVs (mEVs) were isolated from BC MDA-MB-231 and MCF7 and non-cancerous breast epithelial MCF10A cell lines and then analyzed by two approaches: global proteomic analysis and enrichment of EV surface proteins by Sulfo-NHS-SS-Biotin labeling. From the first approach, proteomic profiling identified 2459 proteins, which were subjected to comparative analysis and correlation network analysis. Twelve potential biomarker proteins were identified based on cell line-specific expression and filtered by their predicted co-localization with known EV marker proteins, CD63, CD9, and CD81. This approach resulted in the identification of 11 proteins, four of which were further investigated by Western blot analysis. The presence of transmembrane serine protease matriptase (ST14), claudin-3 (CLDN3), and integrin alpha-7 (ITGA7) in each cell line was validated by Western blot, revealing that ST14 and CLDN3 may be further explored as potential EV biomarkers for BC. The surface labeling approach enriched proteins that were not identified using the first approach. Ten potential BC biomarkers (Glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1), Elongation factor 2 (EEF2), DEAD/H box RNA helicase (DDX10), progesterone receptor (PGR), Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 2 (RAC2), Disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain-containing protein 10 (ADAM10), Aconitase 2 (ACO2), UTP20 small subunit processome component (UTP20), NEDD4 binding protein 2 (N4BP2), Programmed cell death 6 (PDCD6)) were selected from surface proteins commonly identified from MDA-MB-231 and MCF7, but not identified in MCF10A EVs. In total, 846 surface proteins were identified from the second approach, of which 11 were already known as BC markers. This study supports the proposition that Evs are a rich source of known and novel biomarkers that may be used for non-invasive detection of BC. Furthermore, the presented datasets could be further explored for the identification of potential biomarkers in BC.
PXD041341	38340920	Resilience and proteome response of Escherichia coli to high levels of isoleucine mistranslation. 	Resiliance and proteome response of Escherichia coli to high levels of isoleucine mistranslation	DnaK, Escherichia coli, aggregation, aminoacyl-trna synthetase, chaperone, isoleucine, mistranslation, norvaline, translation	Accurate pairing of amino acids and tRNAs is a prerequisite for faithful translation of genetic information during protein biosynthesis. Here we present the effects of proteome-wide mistranslation of isoleucine (Ile) by canonical valine (Val) or non-proteinogenic norvaline (Nva) in a genetically engineered Escherichia coli strain with an editing-defective isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase (IleRS). Editing-defective IleRS efficiently mischarges both Val and Nva to tRNA(Ile) and impairs the translational accuracy of Ile decoding. When mistranslation was induced by the addition of Val or Nva to the growth medium, an Ile-to-Val or Ile-to-Nva substitution of up to 20 % was measured by high-resolution mass spectrometry. This mistranslation level impaired bacterial growth, promoted the SOS response and filamentation during stationary phase, caused global proteome dysregulation and upregulation of the cellular apparatus for maintaining proteostasis, including the major chaperones (GroES/EL, DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE and HtpG), the disaggregase ClpB and the proteases (Lon, HslV/HslU, ClpA, ClpS). The most important consequence of mistranslation appears to be non-specific protein aggregation, which is effectively counteracted by the disaggregase ClpB. Our data show that E. coli can sustain high isoleucine mistranslation levels and remain viable despite excessive protein aggregation and severely impaired translational fidelity. However, we show that inaccurate translation lowers bacterial resilience to heat stress and decreases bacterial survival at elevated temperatures.
PXD046822	38341410	1,4-dihydroxy quininib activates ferroptosis pathways in metastatic uveal melanoma and reveals a novel prognostic biomarker signature. 	1,4-dihydroxy Quininib Activates Ferroptosis Pathways in Metastatic Uveal Melanoma and Reveals a Novel Prognostic Biomarker Signature	Biomarker, Ferroptosis, Uveal melanoma	Uveal melanoma (UM) is an ocular cancer, with propensity for lethal liver metastases. When metastatic UM (MUM) occurs, as few as 8% of patients survive beyond two years. Efficacious treatments for MUM are urgently needed. 1,4-dihydroxy quininib, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLT1) antagonist, alters UM cancer hallmarks in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo. Here, we investigated the 1,4-dihydroxy quininib mechanism of action and its translational potential in MUM. Proteomic profiling of OMM2.5 cells identified proteins differentially expressed after 1,4-dihydroxy quininib treatment. Glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit (GCLM), heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) and 4 hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) expression were assessed by immunoblots. Biliverdin, glutathione and lipid hydroperoxide were measured biochemically. Association between the expression of a specific ferroptosis signature and UM patient survival was performed using public databases. Our data revealed that 1,4-dihydroxy quininib modulates the expression of ferroptosis markers in OMM2.5 cells. Biochemical assays validated that GPX4, biliverdin, GCLM, glutathione and lipid hydroperoxide were significantly altered. HO-1 and 4-HNE levels were significantly increased in MUM tumor explants from orthotopic patient-derived xenografts (OPDX). Expression of genes inhibiting ferroptosis is significantly increased in UM patients with chromosome 3 monosomy. We identified IFerr, a novel ferroptosis signature correlating with UM patient survival. Altogether, we demontrated that in MUM cells and tissues, 1,4-dihydroxy quininib modulates key markers that induce ferroptosis, a relatively new type of cell death driven by iron-dependent peroxidation of phospholipids. Furthermore, we showed that high expression of specific genes inhibiting ferroptosis is associated with a worse UM prognosis, thus, the IFerr signature is a potential prognosticator for which patients develop MUM. All in all, ferroptosis has potential as a clinical biomarker and therapeutic target for MUM.
PXD042222	38341452	TFIP11 promotes replication fork reversal to preserve genome stability. 	TFIP11 competes with the Bloom syndrome helicase for binding to stalled replication forks to preserve genome stability	Bloom syndrome helicase, Genome instability, Replication fork reversal, Replication stress, TFIP11	Replication fork reversal, a critical protective mechanism against replication stress in higher eukaryotic cells, is orchestrated via a series of coordinated enzymatic reactions. The Bloom syndrome gene product, BLM, a member of the highly conserved RecQ helicase family, is implicated in this process, yet its precise regulation and role remain poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrate that the GCFC domain-containing protein TFIP11 forms a complex with the BLM helicase. TFIP11 exhibits a preference for binding to DNA substrates that mimic the structure generated at stalled replication forks. Loss of either TFIP11 or BLM leads to the accumulation of the other protein at stalled forks. This abnormal accumulation, in turn, impairs RAD51-mediated fork reversal and slowing, sensitizes cells to replication stress-inducing agents, and enhances chromosomal instability. These findings reveal a previously unidentified regulatory mechanism that modulates the activities of BLM and RAD51 at stalled forks, thereby impacting genome integrity.
PXD041966	38341466	Pick-up single-cell proteomic analysis for quantifying up to 3000 proteins in a Mammalian cell. 	Pick-up single-cell proteomic analysis for quantifying up to 3000 proteins in a tumor cell	cell migration, microfluidics, shotgun proteomics, single-cell proteomics	The shotgun proteomic analysis is currently the most promising single-cell protein sequencing technology, however its identification level of ~1000 proteins per cell is still insufficient for practical applications. Here, we develop a pick-up single-cell proteomic analysis (PiSPA) workflow to achieve a deep identification capable of quantifying up to 3000 protein groups in a mammalian cell using the label-free quantitative method. The PiSPA workflow is specially established for single-cell samples mainly based on a nanoliter-scale microfluidic liquid handling robot, capable of achieving single-cell capture, pretreatment and injection under the pick-up operation strategy. Using this customized workflow with remarkable improvement in protein identification, 2449-3500, 2278-3257 and 1621-2904 protein groups are quantified in single A549 cells (n = 37), HeLa cells (n = 44) and U2OS cells (n = 27) under the DIA (MBR) mode, respectively. Benefiting from the flexible cell picking-up ability, we study HeLa cell migration at the single cell proteome level, demonstrating the potential in practical biological research from single-cell insight.
PXD047712	38342408	Epitope Mapping of Human Polyclonal Antibodies to the fHbp Antigen of a Neisseria Meningitidis Vaccine by Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (HDX-MS). 	Epitope Mapping of Human Polyclonal Antibodies to the fHbp Antigen of a Neisseria Meningitidis Vaccine by Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (HDX-MS) - part 2	HDX-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), fHBp, pAb	Antigen-antibody interactions play a key role in the immune response post vaccination and the mechanism of action of antibody-based biopharmaceuticals. 4CMenB is a multicomponent vaccine against Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B in which factor H binding protein (fHbp) is one of the key antigens. In this study, we use hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) to identify epitopes in fHbp recognized by polyclonal antibodies (pAb) from two human donors (HDs) vaccinated with 4CMenB. Our HDX-MS data reveal several epitopes recognized by the complex mixture of human pAb. Furthermore, we show that the pAb from the two HDs recognize the same epitope regions. Epitope mapping of total pAb and purified fHbp-specific pAb from the same HD reveals that the two antibody samples recognize the same main epitopes, showing that HDX-MS based epitope mapping can, in this case at least, be performed directly using total IgG pAb samples that have not undergone Ab-selective purification. Two monoclonal antibodies (mAb) were previously produced from B-cell repertoire sequences from one of the HDs and used for epitope mapping of fHbp with HDX-MS. The epitopes identified for the pAb from the same HD in this study, overlap with the epitopes recognized by the two individual mAbs. Overall, HDX-MS epitope mapping appears highly suitable for simultaneous identification of epitopes recognized by pAb from human donors and to thus both guide vaccine development and study basic human immunity to pathogens, including viruses.
PXD037933	38342409	Proximity mapping of desmosomes reveals a striking shift in their molecular neighbourhood associated with maturation. 	Proximity mapping of desmosomes reveals a striking maturation-dependent shift in their molecular neighbourhood	Adhesion, BioID, Desmosome	Desmosomes are multiprotein adhesion complexes that link intermediate filaments to the plasma membrane, ensuring the mechanical integrity of cells across tissues, but how they participate in the wider signalling network to exert their full function is unclear. To investigate this we carried out protein proximity mapping using biotinylation (BioID). The combined interactomes of the essential desmosomal proteins desmocollin 2a, plakoglobin and plakophilin 2a (Pkp2a) in Madin-Darby canine kidney epithelial cells were mapped and their differences and commonalities characterised as desmosome matured from Ca(2+)-dependence to the mature, Ca(2+)-independent, hyper-adhesive state, which predominates in tissues. Results suggest that individual desmosomal proteins have distinct roles in connecting to cellular signalling pathways and that these roles alter substantially when cells change their adhesion state. The data provide further support for a dualistic concept of desmosomes in which the properties of Pkp2a differ from those of the other, more stable proteins. This body of data provides an invaluable resource for the analysis of desmosome function.
PXD048204	38342410	Exploration of nitrotyrosine-containing proteins and peptides by antibody-based enrichment strategies. 	Exploration of nitrotyrosine-containing proteins and peptides by antibody-based enrichment strategies	Immunoaffinity, Nitrotyrosine, Oxidative stress, Peroxynitrite, Post-translational modifications, Protein kinase	Nitrotyrosine, or 3-nitrotyrosine, is an oxidative post-translational modification induced by reactive nitrogen species. Although nitrotyrosine is considered as a marker of oxidative stress and has been associated with inflammation, neurodegeneration, cardiovascular disease and cancer, identification of nitrotyrosine-modified proteins remains challenging owing to its low stoichiometric levels in biological samples. To facilitate a comprehensive analysis of proteins and peptides containing nitrotyrosine, we optimized an immunoprecipitation-based enrichment workflow using a cell line model. The identification of proteins and peptides containing nitrotyrosine residues was carried out after peroxynitrite treatment of cell lysates, which generated modified nitrotyrosine residues on susceptible sites on proteins. We evaluated the efficacy of enriching nitrotyrosine-modified proteins and peptides by employing four different commercially available monoclonal antibodies directed against nitrotyrosine. LC-MS/MS analysis resulted in the identification of 1,377 and 1,624 nitrotyrosine-containing peptides from protein- and peptide-based enrichment experiments, respectively. Although the yield of nitrotyrosine-containing peptides was higher in experiments where peptides rather than proteins were enriched, we found a substantial proportion (37-65%) of identified nitrotyrosine-containing peptides contained nitrotyrosine at the N-terminus. However, in protein-based immunoprecipitation <9% of nitrotyrosine-containing peptides had nitrotyrosine modification at the N-terminus of the peptide. Overall, our study resulted in the identification of 2,603 nitrotyrosine-containing peptides of which >2,000 have not previously been reported. We synthesized 101 novel nitrotyrosine-containing peptides identified in our analysis and analyzed them by LC-MS/MS to validate our findings. We have confirmed the validity of 70% of these peptides, as they demonstrated a similarity score exceeding 0.7 when compared to peptides identified through experimental methods. Finally, we also validated presence of nitrotyrosine modification on PKM and EF2 proteins in peroxynitrite-treated samples by immunoblot analysis. The large catalog presented in this study along with the workflow should facilitate investigation of nitrotyrosine as an oxidative modification in a variety of settings in greater detail.
PXD046012	38343116	SSSMuG: Same Sample Sequential Multi-Glycomics. 	SSSMuG: Same Sample Sequential Multi-Glycomics	brain, glycoconjugate, glycome, multi-glycomics, multi-omics	The mammalian glycome is structurally complex and diverse, composed of many glycan classes such as N- and O-linked glycans, glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), glycosphingolipids (GSLs), and other distinct glycan features such as polysialic acids (PolySia), sulfation, and proteoglycan attachment stubs. Various methods are used to analyze these different components of the glycome, but they require prefractionated/partitioned samples to target each glycan class individually. To address this need for a knowledge of the relationship between the different glycan components of a biological system, we developed a sequential release workflow for analysis of multiple conjugated glycan classes (PolySia, GAGs, GSL glycans, N-glycans, and O-glycans) from the same tissue lysate, termed SSSMuG-Same Sample Sequential Multi-Glycomics. With this sequential glycan release approach, five glycan classes were characterized (or four glycan classes plus proteomics) using enzymatic or chemical release from a single sample immobilized on a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. The various released glycan classes were then analyzed by HPLC and MS techniques using commonly available analytical setups. Compared to single glycan class release approaches, SSSMuG was able to identify more glycans and more proteins with higher-intensity analytical peaks and provide a better comparative normalization of the different glycan classes of the complex glycome. To this end, the SSSMuG technology workflow will be a foundation for a paradigm shift in the field, transforming glycoanalytics and facilitating the push toward multiglycomics and systems glycobiology.
PXD040500	38345497	A Cluster of Evolutionarily Recent KRAB Zinc Finger Proteins Protects Cancer Cells from Replicative Stress-Induced Inflammation. 	KRAB zinc finger proteins ZNF587/ZNF417 protect lymphoma cells from replicative stress-induced inflammation	Human zinc finger proteins, ZNF587/417 knockdown, diffuse large B cell lymphoma, immunopeptidomics	Heterochromatin loss and genetic instability enhance cancer progression by favoring clonal diversity, yet uncontrolled replicative stress leads to mitotic catastrophe and inflammatory responses that promote immune rejection. KRAB domain-containing zinc finger proteins (KZFP) contribute to heterochromatin maintenance at transposable elements (TE). Here, we identified an association of upregulation of a cluster of primate-specific KZFPs with poor prognosis, increased copy-number alterations, and changes in the tumor microenvironment in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Depleting two of these KZFPs targeting evolutionarily recent TEs, ZNF587 and ZNF417, impaired the proliferation of cells derived from DLBCL and several other tumor types. ZNF587 and ZNF417 depletion led to heterochromatin redistribution, replicative stress, and cGAS-STING-mediated induction of an interferon/inflammatory response, which enhanced susceptibility to macrophage-mediated phagocytosis and increased surface expression of HLA-I, together with presentation of a neoimmunopeptidome. Thus, cancer cells can exploit KZFPs to dampen TE-originating surveillance mechanisms, which likely facilitates clonal expansion, diversification, and immune evasion. SIGNIFICANCE: Upregulation of a cluster of primate-specific KRAB zinc finger proteins in cancer cells prevents replicative stress and inflammation by regulating heterochromatin maintenance, which could facilitate the development of improved biomarkers and treatments.
PXD042859	38345532	Unraveling the Global Proteome and Phosphoproteome of Prostate Cancer Patient-Derived Xenografts. 	Unraveling the Global Proteome and Phosphoproteome of Prostate Cancer Patient-Derived Xenografts	PhosphoProteomics, Prostate cancer and Patient-Derived Xenografts	Resistance to androgen deprivation therapies leads to metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) of adenocarcinoma (AdCa) origin that can transform to emergent aggressive variant prostate cancer (AVPC) which has neuroendocrine (NE)-like features. In this work, we used LuCaP patient-derived xenograft (PDX) tumors, clinically relevant models that reflects and retains key features of the tumor from advanced prostate cancer patients. Here we performed proteome and phosphoproteome characterization of 48 LuCaP PDX tumors and identified over 94,000 peptides and 9,700 phosphopeptides corresponding to 7,738 proteins. We compared 15 NE versus 33 AdCa samples, that included six different PDX tumors for each group in biological replicates and identified 309 unique proteins and 476 unique phosphopeptides that were significantly altered and corresponded to proteins that are known to distinguish these two phenotypes. Assessment of concordance from PDX tumor matched protein and mRNA revealed increased dissonance in transcriptionally regulated proteins in NE and metabolite interconversion enzymes in AdCa. Implications: Overall, our study highlights the importance of protein-based identification when compared to RNA and provides a rich resource of new and feasible targets for clinical assay development and in understanding the underlying biology of these tumors.
PXD040888	38347224	RNA polymerase II promotes the organization of chromatin following DNA replication. 	RNA polymerase II acts to promote the organization of chromatin following DNA replication	DNA replications, TMT	Understanding how chromatin organisation is duplicated on the two daughter strands is a central question in epigenetics. In mammals, following the passage of the replisome, nucleosomes lose their defined positioning and transcription contributes to their re-organisation. However, whether transcription plays a greater role in the organization of chromatin following DNA replication remains unclear. Here we analysed protein re-association with newly replicated DNA upon inhibition of transcription using iPOND coupled to quantitative mass spectrometry. We show that nucleosome assembly and the re-establishment of most histone modifications are uncoupled from transcription. However, RNAPII acts to promote the re-association of hundreds of proteins with newly replicated chromatin via pathways that are not observed in steady-state chromatin. These include ATP-dependent remodellers, transcription factors and histone methyltransferases. We also identify a set of DNA repair factors that may handle transcription-replication conflicts during normal transcription in human non-transformed cells. Our study reveals that transcription plays a greater role in the organization of chromatin post-replication than previously anticipated.
PXD046396	38347948	Mass Spectrometry of Putrescine, Spermidine, and Spermine Covalently Attached to Francisella tularensis Universal Stress Protein and Bovine Albumin. 	Mass spectrometry distinguishes putrescine, spermidine, and spermine covalently attached to proteins	albumin, carbodiimide, manual evaluation, polyamine, transglutaminase, universal stress protein	Bacterial and mammalian cells are rich in putrescine, spermidine, and spermine. Polyamines are required for optimum fitness, but the biological function of these small aliphatic compounds has only been partially revealed. Known functions of polyamines include interaction with nucleic acids that alters gene expression and with proteins that modulate activity. Although polyamines can be incorporated into proteins, very few naturally occurring polyaminated proteins have been identified, which is due in part to the difficulty in detecting these adducts. In the current study, bovine albumin and the recombinant universal stress protein from Francisella tularensis were used as models for mass spectrometry analysis of polyaminated proteins. The proteins were covalently bound to putrescine, spermidine, or spermine by the action of carbodiimide or microbial transglutaminase. Tryptic peptides, subjected to liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), were identified using Protein Prospector software. We describe the search parameters for identifying polyaminated peptides and show MS/MS spectra for adducts with putrescine, spermidine, and spermine. Manual evaluation led us to recognize signature ions for polyamine adducts on aspartate, glutamate, and glutamine, as well as neutral loss from putrescine, spermidine, and spermine during the fragmentation process. Mechanisms for the formation of signature ions and neutral loss are presented. Manual evaluation identified a false-positive adduct that had formed during trypsinolysis and resulted in peptide sequence rearrangement. Another false positive initially appeared to be a 71 kDa putrescine adduct on a cysteine residue. However, it was an acrylamide adduct on cysteine for a sample extracted from a polyacrylamide gel. The information presented in this report provides guidance and serves as a model for identifying naturally occurring polyaminated proteins.
PXD047705	38348908	RIP-seq reveals RNAs that interact with RNA polymerase and primary sigma factors in bacteria. 	Proteins of anti-sigma70 and anti-RNAP immunoprecipitates in bacteria	Corynebacterium glutamicum, Mycobacterium smegmatis, RNAP, sigma A, transcription	Bacteria have evolved structured RNAs that can associate with RNA polymerase (RNAP). Two of them have been known so far-6S RNA and Ms1 RNA but it is unclear if any other types of RNAs binding to RNAP exist in bacteria. To identify all RNAs interacting with RNAP and the primary sigma factors, we have established and performed native RIP-seq in Bacillus subtilis, Corynebacterium glutamicum, Streptomyces coelicolor, Mycobacterium smegmatis and the pathogenic Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Besides known 6S RNAs in B. subtilis and Ms1 in M. smegmatis, we detected MTS2823, a homologue of Ms1, on RNAP in M. tuberculosis. In C. glutamicum, we discovered novel types of structured RNAs that associate with RNAP. Furthermore, we identified other species-specific RNAs including full-length mRNAs, revealing a previously unknown landscape of RNAs interacting with the bacterial transcription machinery.
PXD044493	38349129	Lyssavirus M protein degrades neuronal microtubules by reprogramming mitochondrial metabolism. 	Mouse Neuroblastoma Cells Proteome by LC-MS/MS	N2a cells, Proteome profiling, Rabies virus matrix protein transfection	Infection with neurotropic viruses may result in changes in host behavior, which are closely associated with degenerative changes in neurons. The lyssavirus genus comprises highly neurotropic viruses, including the rabies virus (RABV), which has been shown to induce degenerative changes in neurons, marked by the self-destruction of axons. The underlying mechanism by which the RABV degrades neuronal cytoskeletal proteins remains incomplete. In this study, we show that infection with RABV or overexpression of its M protein can disrupt mitochondrial metabolism by binding to Slc25a4. This leads to a reduction in NAD(+) production and a subsequent influx of Ca(2+) from the endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria into the cytoplasm of neuronal cell lines, activating Ca(2+)-dependent proteinase calpains that degrade alpha-tubulin. We further screened the M proteins of different lyssaviruses and discovered that the M protein of the dog-derived RABV strain (DRV) does not degrade alpha-tubulin. Sequence analysis of the DRV M protein and that of the lab-attenuated RABV strain CVS revealed that the 57th amino acid is vital for M-induced microtubule degradation. We generated a recombinant RABV with a mutation at the 57th amino acid position in its M protein and showed that this mutation reduces alpha-tubulin degradation in vitro and axonal degeneration in vivo. This study elucidates the mechanism by which lyssavirus induces neuron degeneration.IMPORTANCEPrevious studies have suggested that RABV (rabies virus, the representative of lyssavirus) infection induces structural abnormalities in neurons. But there are few articles on the mechanism of lyssavirus' effect on neurons, and the mechanism of how RABV infection induces neurological dysfunction remains incomplete. The M protein of lyssavirus can downregulate cellular ATP levels by interacting with Slc25a4, and this decrease in ATP leads to a decrease in the level of NAD(+) in the cytosol, which results in the release of Ca(2+) from the intracellular calcium pool, the endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria. The presence of large amounts of Ca(2+) in the cytoplasm activates Ca(2+)-dependent proteases and degrades microtubule proteins. The amino acid 57 of M protein is the key site determining its disruption of mitochondrial metabolism and subsequent neuron degeneration.
PXD033839	38349749	Mesenchymal Stem Cells-Derived Exosomes Alleviate Acute Lung Injury By Inhibiting Alveolar Macrophage Pyroptosis. 	Mesenchymal stem cells-derived exosomes and MRC-5 cell-derived exosomes LC-MSMS	MRC-5, Mesenchymal stem cells, exosomes	Acute lung injury (ALI) is an important pathological process of acute respiratory distress syndrome, yet there are limited therapies for its treatment. Mesenchymal stem cells-derived exosomes (MSCs-Exo) have been shown to be effective in suppressing inflammation. However, the effects of MSCs-Exo on ALI and the underlying mechanisms have not been well elucidated. Our data showed that MSCs-Exo, but not exosomes derived from MRC-5 cells (MRC-5-Exo), which are human fetal lung fibroblast cells, significantly improved chest imaging, histological observations, alveolocapillary membrane permeability, and reduced inflammatory response in ALI mice model. According to miRNA sequencing and proteomic analysis of MSCs-Exo and MRC-5-Exo, MSCs-Exo may inhibit pyroptosis by miRNAs targeting caspase-1-mediated pathway, and by proteins with immunoregulation functions. Taken together, our study demonstrated that MSCs-Exo were effective in treating ALI by inhibiting the pyroptosis of alveolar macrophages and reducing inflammation response. Its mechanism may be through pyroptosis-targeting miRNAs and immunoregulating proteins delivered by MSCs-Exo. Therefore, MSCs-Exo may be a new treatment option in the early stage of ALI.
PXD047388	38351096	HKDC1 promotes tumor immune evasion in hepatocellular carcinoma by coupling cytoskeleton to STAT1 activation and PD-L1 expression. 	To explore the binding protein of HKDC1 by IP-MS	HKDC1, IP-MS	Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has shown considerable promise for treating various malignancies, but only a subset of cancer patients benefit from immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy because of immune evasion and immune-related adverse events (irAEs). The mechanisms underlying how tumor cells regulate immune cell response remain largely unknown. Here we show that hexokinase domain component 1 (HKDC1) promotes tumor immune evasion in a CD8(+) T cell-dependent manner by activating STAT1/PD-L1 in tumor cells. Mechanistically, HKDC1 binds to and presents cytosolic STAT1 to IFNGR1 on the plasma membrane following IFNgamma-stimulation by associating with cytoskeleton protein ACTA2, resulting in STAT1 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation. HKDC1 inhibition in combination with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 enhances in vivo T cell antitumor response in liver cancer models in male mice. Clinical sample analysis indicates a correlation among HKDC1 expression, STAT1 phosphorylation, and survival in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma treated with atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1). These findings reveal a role for HKDC1 in regulating immune evasion by coupling cytoskeleton with STAT1 activation, providing a potential combination strategy to enhance antitumor immune responses.
PXD015631	38352067	Secretome analysis and virulence assessment in Abiotrophia defectiva. 	Proteomics of Abiotrophia defectiva protein secretion	A. defectiva, endocarditis, oral, secretome	Background: Abiotrophia defectiva, although infrequently occurring, is a notable cause of culture-negative infective endocarditis with limited research on its virulence. Associated with oral infections such as dental caries, exploring its secretome may provide insights into virulence mechanisms. Our study aimed to analyze and characterize the secretome of A. defectiva strain CCUG 27639. Methods: Secretome of A. defectiva was prepared from broth cultures and subjected to mass spectrometry and proteomics for protein identification. Inflammatory potential of the secretome was assessed by ELISA. Results: Eighty-four proteins were identified, with diverse subcellular localizations predicted by PSORTb. Notably, 20 were cytoplasmic, 12 cytoplasmic membrane, 5 extracellular, and 9 cell wall-anchored proteins. Bioinformatics tools revealed 54 proteins secreted via the 'Sec' pathway and 8 via a non-classical pathway. Moonlighting functions were found in 23 proteins, with over 20 exhibiting potential virulence properties, including peroxiredoxin and oligopeptide ABC transporter substrate-binding protein. Gene Ontology and KEGG analyses categorized protein sequences in various pathways. STRING analysis revealed functional protein association networks. Cytokine profiling demonstrated significant proinflammatory cytokine release (IL-8, IL-1beta, and CCL5) from human PBMCs. Conclusions: Our study provides a comprehensive understanding of A. defectiva's secretome, laying the foundation for insights into its pathogenicity.
PXD039581	38353246	ChipFilter: Microfluidic-Based Comprehensive Sample Preparation Methodology for Microbial Consortia. 	ChipFilter: Microfluidic Based Comprehensive Sample Preparation Methodology for Metaproteomics	metaproteomic, sample preparation	The metaproteomic approach is an attractive way to describe a microbiome at the functional level, allowing the identification and quantification of proteins across a broad dynamic range as well as the detection of post-translational modifications. However, it remains relatively underutilized, mainly due to technical challenges that should be addressed, including the complexity of extracting proteins from heterogeneous microbial communities. Here, we show that a ChipFilter microfluidic device coupled to a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) setup can be successfully used for the identification of microbial proteins. Using cultures of Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we have shown that it is possible to directly lyse the cells and digest the proteins in the ChipFilter to allow the identification of a higher number of proteins and peptides than that by standard protocols, even at low cell density. The peptides produced are overall longer after ChipFilter digestion but show no change in their degree of hydrophobicity. Analysis of a more complex mixture of 17 species from the gut microbiome showed that the ChipFilter preparation was able to identify and estimate the amounts of 16 of these species. These results show that ChipFilter can be used for the proteomic study of microbiomes, particularly in the case of a low volume or cell density. The mass spectrometry data have been deposited on the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD039581.
PXD047223	38353495	Deposition of onco-histone H3.3-G34W leads to DNA repair deficiency and activates cGAS/STING-mediated immune responses. 	Deposition of onco-histone H3.3-G34W leads to DNA repair deficiency and activates cGAS/STING-mediated immune responses	DNA repair, G34W, H3.3, cGAS/STING, immune response, onco-histone	Mutations in histone H3.3-encoding genes causing mutant histone tails are associated with specific cancers such as pediatric glioblastomas (H3.3-G34R/V) and giant cell tumor of the bone (H3.3-G34W). The mechanisms by which these mutations promote malignancy are not completely understood. Here we show that cells expressing H3.3-G34W exhibit DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) repair defects and increased cellular sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). Mechanistically, H3.3-G34W can be deposited to damaged chromatin, but in contrast to wild-type H3.3, does not interact with non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) key effectors KU70/80 and XRCC4 leading to NHEJ deficiency. Together with defective cell cycle checkpoints reported previously, this DNA repair deficiency in H3.3-G34W cells led to accumulation of micronuclei and cytosolic DNA following IR, which subsequently led to activation of the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase/stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS/STING) pathway, thereby inducing release of immune-stimulatory cytokines. These findings suggest a potential for radiotherapy for tumors expressing H3.3-G34W, which can be further improved by combination with STING agonists to induce immune-mediated therapeutic efficacy.
PXD044743	38354111	Vittrup Man-The life-history of a genetic foreigner in Neolithic Denmark. 	Vittrup Man - the life-history of a genetic foreigner in Neolithic Denmark	Denmark, Funnel Beaker Culture, ancient dental calculus, human dental calculus	The lethally maltreated body of Vittrup Man was deposited in a Danish bog, probably as part of a ritualised sacrifice. It happened between c. 3300 and 3100 cal years BC, i.e., during the period of the local farming-based Funnel Beaker Culture. In terms of skull morphological features, he differs from the majority of the contemporaneous farmers found in Denmark, and associates with hunter-gatherers, who inhabited Scandinavia during the previous millennia. His skeletal remains were selected for transdisciplinary analysis to reveal his life-history in terms of a population historical perspective. We report the combined results of an integrated set of genetic, isotopic, physical anthropological and archaeological analytical approaches. Strontium signature suggests a foreign birthplace that could be in Norway or Sweden. In addition, enamel oxygen isotope values indicate that as a child he lived in a colder climate, i.e., to the north of the regions inhabited by farmers. Genomic data in fact demonstrates that he is closely related to Mesolithic humans known from Norway and Sweden. Moreover, dietary stable isotope analyses on enamel and bone collagen demonstrate a fisher-hunter way of life in his childhood and a diet typical of farmers later on. Such a variable life-history is also reflected by proteomic analysis of hardened organic deposits on his teeth, indicating the consumption of forager food (seal, whale and marine fish) as well as farmer food (sheep/goat). From a dietary isotopic transect of one of his teeth it is shown that his transfer between societies of foragers and farmers took place near to the end of his teenage years.
PXD046627	38354288	LFQRatio: A Normalization Method to Decipher Quantitative Proteome Changes in Microbial Coculture System. 	A normalization method to decipher quantitative proteome changes in microbial co-culture systems	Azotobacter, Synechococcus, label-free quantification, microbial co-culture, quantitative proteomics	The value of synthetic microbial communities in biotechnology is gaining traction due to their ability to undertake more complex metabolic tasks than monocultures. However, a thorough understanding of strain interactions, productivity, and stability is often required to optimize growth and scale up cultivation. Quantitative proteomics can provide valuable insights into how microbial strains adapt to changing conditions in biomanufacturing. However, current workflows and methodologies are not suitable for simple artificial coculture systems where strain ratios are dynamic. Here, we established a workflow for coculture proteomics using an exemplar system containing two members, Azotobacter vinelandii and Synechococcus elongatus. Factors affecting the quantitative accuracy of coculture proteomics were investigated, including peptide physicochemical characteristics such as molecular weight, isoelectric point, hydrophobicity, and dynamic range as well as factors relating to protein identification such as varying proteome size and shared peptides between species. Different quantification methods based on spectral counts and intensity were evaluated at the protein and cell level. We propose a new normalization method, named "LFQRatio", to reflect the relative contributions of two distinct cell types emerging from cell ratio changes during cocultivation. LFQRatio can be applied to real coculture proteomics experiments, providing accurate insights into quantitative proteome changes in each strain.
PXD038923	38355753	Identification and characterization of intact glycopeptides in human urine. 	Intact Glycopeptide Analysis of Human Urine	glycoproteomics, urine	Glycoproteins in urine have the potential to provide a rich class of informative molecules for studying human health and disease. Despite this promise, the urine glycoproteome has been largely uncharacterized. Here, we present the analysis of glycoproteins in human urine using LC-MS/MS-based intact glycopeptide analysis, providing both the identification of protein glycosites and characterization of the glycan composition at specific glycosites. Gene enrichment analysis reveals differences in biological processes, cellular components, and molecular functions in the urine glycoproteome versus the urine proteome, as well as differences based on the major glycan class observed on proteins. Meta-heterogeneity of glycosylation is examined on proteins to determine the variation in glycosylation across multiple sites of a given protein with specific examples of individual sites differing from the glycosylation trends in the overall protein. Taken together, this dataset represents a potentially valuable resource as a baseline characterization of glycoproteins in human urine for future urine glycoproteomics studies.
PXD034902	38355793	Genetic determinants of micronucleus formation in vivo. 	Proteomic analysis of Dscc1 knockout mouse cells	DSCC1, Knock out, MS/MS	Genomic instability arising from defective responses to DNA damage(1) or mitotic chromosomal imbalances(2) can lead to the sequestration of DNA in aberrant extranuclear structures called micronuclei (MN). Although MN are a hallmark of ageing and diseases associated with genomic instability, the catalogue of genetic players that regulate the generation of MN remains to be determined. Here we analyse 997 mouse mutant lines, revealing 145 genes whose loss significantly increases (n = 71) or decreases (n = 74) MN formation, including many genes whose orthologues are linked to human disease. We found that mice null for Dscc1, which showed the most significant increase in MN, also displayed a range of phenotypes characteristic of patients with cohesinopathy disorders. After validating the DSCC1-associated MN instability phenotype in human cells, we used genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening to define synthetic lethal and synthetic rescue interactors. We found that the loss of SIRT1 can rescue phenotypes associated with DSCC1 loss in a manner paralleling restoration of protein acetylation of SMC3. Our study reveals factors involved in maintaining genomic stability and shows how this information can be used to identify mechanisms that are relevant to human disease biology(1).
PXD048826	38358793	Metabolomics identifies and validates serum androstenedione as novel biomarker for diagnosing primary angle closure glaucoma and predicting the visual field progression. 	Serum Metabolomics in Patients with Ocular Diseases	AMD, Glaucoma, Metabolomics, Serum	Background: Primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in Asia, and no reliable, effective diagnostic, and predictive biomarkers are used in clinical routines. A growing body of evidence shows metabolic alterations in patients with glaucoma. We aimed to develop and validate potential metabolite biomarkers to diagnose and predict the visual field progression of PACG. Methods: Here, we used a five-phase (discovery phase, validation phase 1, validation phase 2, supplementary phase, and cohort phase) multicenter (EENT hospital, Shanghai Xuhui Central Hospital), cross-sectional, prospective cohort study designed to perform widely targeted metabolomics and chemiluminescence immunoassay to determine candidate biomarkers. Five machine learning (random forest, support vector machine, lasso, K-nearest neighbor, and GaussianNaive Bayes [NB]) approaches were used to identify an optimal algorithm. The discrimination ability was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). Calibration was assessed by Hosmer-Lemeshow tests and calibration plots. Results: Studied serum samples were collected from 616 participants, and 1464 metabolites were identified. Machine learning algorithm determines that androstenedione exhibited excellent discrimination and acceptable calibration in discriminating PACG across the discovery phase (discovery set 1, AUCs=1.0 [95% CI, 1.00-1.00]; discovery set 2, AUCs = 0.85 [95% CI, 0.80-0.90]) and validation phases (internal validation, AUCs = 0.86 [95% CI, 0.81-0.91]; external validation, AUCs = 0.87 [95% CI, 0.80-0.95]). Androstenedione also exhibited a higher AUC (0.92-0.98) to discriminate the severity of PACG. In the supplemental phase, serum androstenedione levels were consistent with those in aqueous humor (r=0.82, p=0.038) and significantly (p=0.021) decreased after treatment. Further, cohort phase demonstrates that higher baseline androstenedione levels (hazard ratio = 2.71 [95% CI: 1.199-6.104], p=0.017) were associated with faster visual field progression. Conclusions: Our study identifies serum androstenedione as a potential biomarker for diagnosing PACG and indicating visual field progression. Funding: This work was supported by Youth Medical Talents - Clinical Laboratory Practitioner Program (2022-65), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (82302582), Shanghai Municipal Health Commission Project (20224Y0317), and Higher Education Industry-Academic-Research Innovation Fund of China (2023JQ006).
PXD040589	38358903	Discovery of Species-Specific Proteotypic Peptides To Establish a Spectral Library Platform for Identification of Nontuberculosis Mycobacteria from Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics. 	Data-dependent acquisition based proteomic analysis of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis ATCC 19698	DDA, Mycobacterium avium, non-tuberculous mycobacteria	Nontuberculous mycobacteria are opportunistic bacteria pulmonary and extra-pulmonary infections in humans that closely resemble Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Although genome sequencing strategies helped determine NTMs, a common assay for the detection of coinfection by multiple NTMs with M. tuberculosis in the primary attempt of diagnosis is still elusive. Such a lack of efficiency leads to delayed therapy, an inappropriate choice of drugs, drug resistance, disease complications, morbidity, and mortality. Although a high-resolution LC-MS/MS-based multiprotein panel assay can be developed due to its specificity and sensitivity, it needs a library of species-specific peptides as a platform. Toward this, we performed an analysis of proteomes of 9 NTM species with more than 20 million peptide spectrum matches gathered from 26 proteome data sets. Our metaproteomic analyses determined 48,172 species-specific proteotypic peptides across 9 NTMs. Notably, M. smegmatis (26,008), M. abscessus (12,442), M. vaccae (6487), M. fortuitum (1623), M. avium subsp. paratuberculosis (844), M. avium subsp. hominissuis (580), and M. marinum (112) displayed >100 species-specific proteotypic peptides. Finally, these peptides and corresponding spectra have been compiled into a spectral library, FASTA, and JSON formats for future reference and validation in clinical cohorts by the biomedical community for further translation.
PXD045340	38358988	Tip Growth Defective1 interacts with the cellulose synthase complex to regulate cellulose synthesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Immunoprecipitation of cellulose synthase complex	Cellulose, Immunoprecipitation	Plant cells possess robust and flexible cell walls composed primarily of cellulose, a polysaccharide that provides structural support and enables cell expansion. Cellulose is synthesised by the Cellulose Synthase A (CESA) catalytic subunits, which form cellulose synthase complexes (CSCs). While significant progress has been made in unravelling CSC function, the trafficking of CSCs and the involvement of post-translational modifications in cellulose synthesis remain poorly understood. In order to deepen our understanding of cellulose biosynthesis, this study utilised immunoprecipitation techniques with CESA6 as the bait protein to explore the CSC and its interactors. We have successfully identified the essential components of the CSC complex and, notably, uncovered novel interactors associated with CSC trafficking, post-translational modifications, and the coordination of cell wall synthesis. Moreover, we identified TIP GROWTH DEFECTIVE 1 (TIP1) protein S-acyl transferases (PATs) as an interactor of the CSC complex. We confirmed the interaction between TIP1 and the CSC complex through multiple independent approaches. Further analysis revealed that tip1 mutants exhibited stunted growth and reduced levels of crystalline cellulose in leaves. These findings suggest that TIP1 positively influences cellulose biosynthesis, potentially mediated by its role in the S-acylation of the CSC complex.
PXD037744	38359291	KAT8-catalyzed lactylation promotes eEF1A2-mediated protein synthesis and colorectal carcinogenesis. 	Lactylation contributes to colorectal carcinogenesis	colorectal carcinogenesis, lactylation	Aberrant lysine lactylation (Kla) is associated with various diseases which are caused by excessive glycolysis metabolism. However, the regulatory molecules and downstream protein targets of Kla remain largely unclear. Here, we observed a global Kla abundance profile in colorectal cancer (CRC) that negatively correlates with prognosis. Among lactylated proteins detected in CRC, lactylation of eEF1A2K408 resulted in boosted translation elongation and enhanced protein synthesis which contributed to tumorigenesis. By screening eEF1A2 interacting proteins, we identified that KAT8, a lysine acetyltransferase that acted as a pan-Kla writer, was responsible for installing Kla on many protein substrates involving in diverse biological processes. Deletion of KAT8 inhibited CRC tumor growth, especially in a high-lactic tumor microenvironment. Therefore, the KAT8-eEF1A2 Kla axis is utilized to meet increased translational requirements for oncogenic adaptation. As a lactyltransferase, KAT8 may represent a potential therapeutic target for CRC.
PXD044680	38360687	Targeting cancer-derived extracellular vesicles by combining CD147 inhibition with tissue factor pathway inhibitor for the management of urothelial cancer cells. 	Targeting cancer-derived extracellular vesicles by combining CD147 inhibition and tissue factor pathway inhibitor for the management of urothelial cancer cells	CD147, cancer-derived extracellular vesicles, signaling, tissue factor, urthelial cancer cells	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including microvesicles, hold promise for the management of bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA), particularly because of their utility in identifying therapeutic targets and their diagnostic potential using easily accessible urine samples. Among the transmembrane glycoproteins highly enriched in cancer-derived EVs, tissue factor (TF) and CD147 have been implicated in promoting tumor progression. In this in vitro study, we explored a novel approach to impede cancer cell migration and metastasis by simultaneously targeting these molecules on urothelial cancer-derived EVs. METHODS: Cell culture supernatants from invasive and non-invasive bladder cancer cell lines and urine samples from patients with BLCA were collected. Large, microvesicle-like EVs were isolated using sequential centrifugation and characterized by electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and flow cytometry. The impact of urinary or cell supernatant-derived EVs on cellular phenotypes was evaluated using cell-based assays following combined treatment with a specific CD147 inhibitor alone or in combination with a tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), an endogenous anticoagulant protein that can be released by low-molecular-weight heparins. RESULTS: We observed that EVs obtained from the urine samples of patients with muscle-invasive BLCA and from the aggressive bladder cancer cell line J82 exhibited higher TF activity and CD147 expression levels than did their non-invasive counterparts. The shedding of GFP-tagged CD147 into isolated vesicles demonstrated that the vesicles originated from plasma cell membranes. EVs originating from invasive cancer cells were found to trigger migration, secretion of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), and invasion. The same induction of MMP activity was replicated using EVs obtained from urine samples of patients with invasive BLCA. EVs derived from cancer cell clones overexpressing TF and CD147 were produced in higher quantities and exhibited a higher invasive potential than those from control cancer cells. TFPI interfered with the effect when used in conjunction with the CD147 inhibitor, further suppressing homotypic EV-induced migration, MMP production, and invasion. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that combining a CD147 inhibitor with low molecular weight heparins to induce TFPI release may be a promising therapeutic approach for urothelial cancer management. This combination can potentially suppress the tumor-promoting actions of cancer-derived microvesicle-like EVs, including collective matrix invasion.
PXD047000	38360722	A novel bystander effect in tamoxifen treatment: PPIB derived from ER+ cells attenuates ER- cells via endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced apoptosis. 	A novel bystander effect in tamoxifen treatment: PPIB derived from ER+ cells attenuates ER- cells via endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced apoptosis	breast cancer, cell line, cell supernatant	Tamoxifen (TAM) is the frontline therapy for estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer in premenopausal women that interrupts ER signaling. As tumors with elevated heterogeneity, amounts of ER-negative (ER-) cells are present in ER+ breast cancer that cannot be directly killed by TAM. Despite complete remissions have been achieved in clinical practice, the mechanism underlying the elimination of ER- cells during TAM treatment remains an open issue. Herein, we deciphered the elimination of ER- cells in TAM treatment from the perspective of the bystander effect. Markable reductions were observed in tumorigenesis of ER- breast cancer cells by applying both supernatants from TAM-treated ER+ cells and a transwell co-culture system, validating the presence of a TAM-induced bystander effect. The major antitumor protein derived from ER+ cells, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase B (PPIB), is the mediator of the TAM-induced bystander effect identified by quantitative proteomics. The attenuation of ER- cells was attributed to activated BiP/eIF2alpha/CHOP axis and promoted endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS)-induced apoptosis, which can also be triggered by PPIB independently. Altogether, our study revealed a novel TAM-induced bystander effect in TAM treatment of ER+ breast cancer, raising the possibility of developing PPIB as a synergistic antitumor agent or even substitute endocrine therapy.
PXD040781	38360755	Identification of structural and regulatory cell-shape determinants in Haloferax volcanii. 	Comparative, quantitative proteomic analysis of cell shape transitions in Haloferax volcanii	Archaea, Archaeal Proteome Project, Haloferax volcanii, Ursgal, cell shape, label-free quantification	Archaea play indispensable roles in global biogeochemical cycles, yet many crucial cellular processes, including cell-shape determination, are poorly understood. Haloferax volcanii, a model haloarchaeon, forms rods and disks, depending on growth conditions. Here, we used a combination of iterative proteomics, genetics, and live-cell imaging to identify mutants that only form rods or disks. We compared the proteomes of the mutants with wild-type cells across growth phases, thereby distinguishing between protein abundance changes specific to cell shape and those related to growth phases. The results identified a diverse set of proteins, including predicted transporters, transducers, signaling components, and transcriptional regulators, as important for cell-shape determination. Through phenotypic characterization of deletion strains, we established that rod-determining factor A (RdfA) and disk-determining factor A (DdfA) are required for the formation of rods and disks, respectively. We also identified structural proteins, including an actin homolog that plays a role in disk-shape morphogenesis, which we named volactin. Using live-cell imaging, we determined volactin's cellular localization and showed its dynamic polymerization and depolymerization. Our results provide insights into archaeal cell-shape determination, with possible implications for understanding the evolution of cell morphology regulation across domains.
PXD047429	38360860	Proteomic characterization identifies clinically relevant subgroups of soft tissue sarcoma. 	Validation experiment for pan-sarcoma	sarcoma	Soft tissue sarcoma is a broad family of mesenchymal malignancies exhibiting remarkable histological diversity. We portray the proteomic landscape of 272 soft tissue sarcomas representing 12 major subtypes. Hierarchical classification finds the similarity of proteomic features between angiosarcoma and epithelial sarcoma, and elevated expression of SHC1 in AS and ES is correlated with poor prognosis. Moreover, proteomic clustering classifies patients of soft tissue sarcoma into 3 proteomic clusters with diverse driven pathways and clinical outcomes. In the proteomic cluster featured with the high cell proliferation rate, APEX1 and NPM1 are found to promote cell proliferation and drive the progression of cancer cells. The classification based on immune signatures defines three immune subtypes with distinctive tumor microenvironments. Further analysis illustrates the potential association between immune evasion markers (PD-L1 and CD80) and tumor metastasis in soft tissue sarcoma. Overall, this analysis uncovers sarcoma-type-specific changes in proteins, providing insights about relationships of soft tissue sarcoma.
PXD043391	38360885	Chp1 is a dedicated chaperone at the ribosome that safeguards eEF1A biogenesis. 	MS data for Chp1 is a dedicated chaperone at the ribosome that safeguards eEF1A biogenesis	Hsf1 activation, eEF1A biogenesis, ribosome-associated chaperone	Cotranslational protein folding depends on general chaperones that engage highly diverse nascent chains at the ribosomes. Here we discover a dedicated ribosome-associated chaperone, Chp1, that rewires the cotranslational folding machinery to assist in the challenging biogenesis of abundantly expressed eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1A (eEF1A). Our results indicate that during eEF1A synthesis, Chp1 is recruited to the ribosome with the help of the nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC), where it safeguards eEF1A biogenesis. Aberrant eEF1A production in the absence of Chp1 triggers instant proteolysis, widespread protein aggregation, activation of Hsf1 stress transcription and compromises cellular fitness. The expression of pathogenic eEF1A2 variants linked to epileptic-dyskinetic encephalopathy is protected by Chp1. Thus, eEF1A is a difficult-to-fold protein that necessitates a biogenesis pathway starting with dedicated folding factor Chp1 at the ribosome to protect the eukaryotic cell from proteostasis collapse.
PXD036857	38360932	The Drosophila ZNRF1/2 homologue, detour, interacts with HOPS complex and regulates autophagy. 	CG14435 (detour), the Drosophila ZNRF1 and 2 homologue, regulates autophagosome biogenesis critical for healthy aging	Drosophila, aging, autophagy	Autophagy, the process of elimination of cellular components by lysosomal degradation, is essential for animal development and homeostasis. Using the autophagy-dependent Drosophila larval midgut degradation model we identified an autophagy regulator, the RING domain ubiquitin ligase CG14435 (detour). Depletion of detour resulted in increased early-stage autophagic vesicles, premature tissue contraction, and overexpression of detour or mammalian homologues, ZNRF1 and ZNRF2, increased autophagic vesicle size. The ablation of ZNRF1 or ZNRF2 in mammalian cells increased basal autophagy. We identified detour interacting proteins including HOPS subunits, deep orange (dor/VPS18), Vacuolar protein sorting 16A (VPS16A), and light (lt/VPS41) and found that detour promotes their ubiquitination. The detour mutant accumulated autophagy-related proteins in young adults, displayed premature ageing, impaired motor function, and activation of innate immunity. Collectively, our findings suggest a role for detour in autophagy, likely through regulation of HOPS complex, with implications for healthy aging.
PXD037064	38360978	The Eyes Absent family members EYA4 and EYA1 promote PLK1 activation and successful mitosis through tyrosine dephosphorylation. 	The Eyes Absent family members EYA4 and EYA1 promote PLK1 activation and successful mitosis through tyrosine dephosphorylation: PLK1 PRM	PLK1 PRM	The Eyes Absent proteins (EYA1-4) are a biochemically unique group of tyrosine phosphatases known to be tumour-promoting across a range of cancer types. To date, the targets of EYA phosphatase activity remain largely uncharacterised. Here, we identify Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) as an interactor and phosphatase substrate of EYA4 and EYA1, with pY445 on PLK1 being the primary target site. Dephosphorylation of pY445 in the G2 phase of the cell cycle is required for centrosome maturation, PLK1 localization to centrosomes, and polo-box domain (PBD) dependent interactions between PLK1 and PLK1-activation complexes. Molecular dynamics simulations support the rationale that pY445 confers a structural impairment to PBD-substrate interactions that is relieved by EYA-mediated dephosphorylation. Depletion of EYA4 or EYA1, or chemical inhibition of EYA phosphatase activity, dramatically reduces PLK1 activation, causing mitotic defects and cell death. Overall, we have characterized a phosphotyrosine signalling network governing PLK1 and mitosis.
PXD041152	38361019	Tapioca: a platform for predicting de novo protein-protein interactions in dynamic contexts. 	Tapioca - A Novel Platform for Prediction Of Protein-Protein Interaction Dynamics Identifies NUCKS1 as a Broad-Spectrum Herpesvirus Proviral Factor	Herpesvirus, KSHV, Thermal Proximity Coaggregation	Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) drive cellular processes and responses to environmental cues, reflecting the cellular state. Here we develop Tapioca, an ensemble machine learning framework for studying global PPIs in dynamic contexts. Tapioca predicts de novo interactions by integrating mass spectrometry interactome data from thermal/ion denaturation or cofractionation workflows with protein properties and tissue-specific functional networks. Focusing on the thermal proximity coaggregation method, we improved the experimental workflow. Finely tuned thermal denaturation afforded increased throughput, while cell lysis optimization enhanced protein detection from different subcellular compartments. The Tapioca workflow was next leveraged to investigate viral infection dynamics. Temporal PPIs were characterized during the reactivation from latency of the oncogenic Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus. Together with functional assays, NUCKS was identified as a proviral hub protein, and a broader role was uncovered by integrating PPI networks from alpha- and betaherpesvirus infections. Altogether, Tapioca provides a web-accessible platform for predicting PPIs in dynamic contexts.
PXD040618	38361426	RNA-dependent proteome solubility maintenance in Escherichia coli lysates analysed by quantitative mass spectrometry: Proteomic characterization in terms of isoelectric point, structural disorder, functional hub, and chaperone network. 	RNA-dependent solubility of Escherichia coli proteome: Structural hub, disorder, and chaperone network	Aggregation, Chaperone, Protein folding, RNA	Protein aggregation, a consequence of misfolding and impaired proteostasis, can lead to cellular malfunctions such as various proteinopathies. The mechanisms protecting proteins from aggregation in complex cellular environments have long been investigated, often from a protein-centric viewpoint. However, our study provides insights into a crucial, yet overlooked actor: RNA. We found that depleting RNAs from Escherichia coli lysates induces global protein aggregation. Our quantitative mass spectrometry analysis identified over 900 statistically significant proteins from the Escherichia coli proteome whose solubility depends on RNAs. Proteome-wide characterization showed that the RNA dependency is particularly enriched among acidic proteins, intrinsically disordered proteins, and structural hub proteins. Moreover, we observed distinct differences in RNA-binding mode and Gene Ontology categories between RNA-dependent acidic and basic proteins. Notably, the solubility of key molecular chaperones [Trigger factor, DnaJ, and GroES] is largely dependent on RNAs, suggesting a yet-to-be-explored hierarchical relationship between RNA-based chaperone (termed as chaperna) and protein-based chaperones, both of which constitute the whole chaperone network. These findings provide new insights into the RNA-centric role in maintaining healthy proteome solubility in vivo, where proteins associate with a variety of RNAs, either stably or transiently.
PXD037022	38363048	Characterization of lymphocyte-rich hepatocellular carcinoma and the prognostic role of tertiary lymphoid structures. 	Comparative analysis of proteomics between lymphocyte-rich hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma formalin fixed and paraffin embedded tissues	Formalin fixed and paraffin embedded tissues, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Lymphocyte-rich hepatocellular carcinoma	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Lymphocyte-rich hepatocellular carcinoma (LR-HCC) is largely unknown and a rare subtype of HCC with immune-rich stroma. Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS), frequently observed in LR-HCC, are known to be prognostically significant in various malignancies; however, their significance in HCC remains unevaluated. METHODS: Clinicopathologic data of 191 cases of surgically resected conventional HCC (C-HCC, n = 160) and LR-HCC (n = 31) were retrieved. Immunohistochemistry, multiplex immunofluorescence staining, RNA sequencing and proteomic analysis were conducted. Differences between the subtypes were statistically evaluated. RESULTS: LR-HCC was significantly correlated to larger tumour size, higher Edmondson-Steiner grade, presence of TLS and higher CD3-, CD8- and FOXP3-positive T cell, high PD-1 and PD-L1 expression (p < .001 for all) compared to C-HCC. Patients with LR-HCC exhibited significantly better overall survival (OS) (p = .044) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) (p = .025) than C-HCC. LR-HCC demonstrated TLS signatures with significantly higher proteomic-based immune scores in 14 of 17 types of tumour-infiltrating immune cells. Furthermore, C-HCC with secondary follicles, the most mature form of TLS, exhibited significantly better OS (p = .031) and RFS (p = .033) than those without. Across the global proteome, LR-HCC was well-differentiated from C-HCC and a map of protein-protein interactions between tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes and HCC in tumour microenvironment was completed. CONCLUSION: LR-HCC is clinicopathologically and molecularly distinct and shows better prognosis compared to C-HCC. Also, the presence of secondary follicle can be an important prognostic marker for better prognosis in both LR-HCC and C-HCC.
PXD046288	38363107	Proteomic Profiling of Dilated Cardiomyopathy Plasma Samples - Searching for Biomarkers with Potential to Predict the Outcome of Therapy. 	Protein profiling of plasma samples of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and differences according to the disease prognosis	LFQ, dilated cardiomyopathy, functional enrichment analysis, left ventricular reverse remodeling, plasma proteome profiling	Determination of the prognosis and treatment outcomes of dilated cardiomyopathy is a serious problem due to the lack of valid specific protein markers. Using in-depth proteome discovery analysis, we compared 49 plasma samples from patients suffering from dilated cardiomyopathy with plasma samples from their healthy counterparts. In total, we identified 97 proteins exhibiting statistically significant dysregulation in diseased plasma samples. The functional enrichment analysis of differentially expressed proteins uncovered dysregulation in biological processes like inflammatory response, wound healing, complement cascade, blood coagulation, and lipid metabolism in dilated cardiomyopathy patients. The same proteome approach was employed in order to find protein markers whose expression differs between the patients well-responding to therapy and nonresponders. In this case, 45 plasma proteins revealed statistically significant different expression between these two groups. Of them, fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase seems to be a promising biomarker candidate because it accumulates in plasma samples obtained from patients with insufficient treatment response and with worse or fatal outcome. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD046288.
PXD043966	38363599	Site-Specific Glycosylation Analysis of Murine and Human Fcgamma Receptors Reveals High Heterogeneity at Conserved N-Glycosylation Site. 	Site-specific N-glycosylation analysis of recombinant FCgamma receptor from human and mice.	FCgamma receptor, N-glycosylation, glycoproteomic, relative abundance	Fc gamma-receptors (FcgammaRs) on leukocytes bind immunoglobulin G (IgG) immune complexes to mediate effector functions. Dysregulation of FcgammaR-mediated processes contributes to multiple inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and immune thrombocytopenia. Critically, immunoregulatory N-glycan modifications on both FcgammaRs and IgGs alter FcgammaR-IgG binding affinity. Rapid methods for the characterization of N-glycans across multiple Fcgamma receptors are needed to propel investigations into disease-specific contributions of FcgammaR N-glycans. Here, we utilize nanoliquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS) to characterize FcgammaR glycosylation and report quantitative and site-specific N-glycan characterization of recombinant human FcgammaRI, FcgammaRIIIA V158, and FcgammaRIIIA F158 from CHO cells and murine FcgammaRI, FcgammaRIII, and FcgammaRIV from NS0 cells. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD043966. Broad glycoform distribution (>=30) was observed at mouse FcgammaRIV site N159 and human FcgammaRIIIA site N162, an evolutionarily conserved site. Further, mouse FcgammaRIII N-glycopeptides spanning all four predicted N-glycosylation sequons were detected. Glycoform relative abundances for hFcgammaRIIIA V/F158 polymorphic variants are reported, demonstrating the clinical potential of this workflow to measure differences in glycosylation between common human FcgammaRIIIA allelic variants with disease-associated outcomes. The multi-Fcgamma receptor glycoproteomic workflow reported here will empower studies focused on the role of FcgammaR N-glycosylation in autoimmune diseases.
PXD043970	38363834	Mechanistic insight into glioma through spatially multidimensional proteomics. 	Mechanistic Insight into Glioma Through Spatially Multidimensional Proteomics	Glioma, muti-cohorts, spatially specific plasma samples	Characterizing the tumor microenvironment at the molecular level is essential for understanding the mechanisms of tumorigenesis and evolution. However, the specificity of the blood proteome in localized region of the tumor and its linkages with other systems is difficult to investigate. Here, we propose a spatially multidimensional comparative proteomics strategy using glioma as an example. The blood proteome signature of tumor microenvironment was specifically identified by in situ collection of arterial and venous blood from the glioma region of the brain for comparison with peripheral blood. Also, by integrating with different dimensions of tissue and peripheral blood proteomics, the information on the genesis, migration, and exchange of glioma-associated proteins was revealed, which provided a powerful method for tumor mechanism research and biomarker discovery. The study recruited multidimensional clinical cohorts, allowing the proteomic results to corroborate each other, reliably revealing biological processes specific to gliomas, and identifying highly accurate biomarkers.
PXD042649	38363844	Glycolytic state of aortic endothelium favors hematopoietic transition during the emergence of definitive hematopoiesis. 	GNPS Understanding the metabolic regulation of murine hematopoietic emergence	AGM, Hematopoiesis, aortic endothelium, hematopoietic stem cell, hemogenic endothelium	The first definitive hematopoietic progenitors emerge through the process of endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition in vertebrate embryos. With molecular regulators for this process worked out, the role of metabolic pathways used remains unclear. Here, we performed nano-LC-MS/MS-based proteomic analysis and predicted a metabolic switch from a glycolytic to oxidative state upon hematopoietic transition. Mitochondrial activity, glucose uptake, and glycolytic flux analysis supported this hypothesis. Systemic inhibition of lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) increased oxygen consumption rate in the hemato-endothelial system and inhibited the emergence of intra-aortic hematopoietic clusters. These findings were corroborated using Tie2-Cre-mediated deletion of Ldha that showed similar effects on hematopoietic emergence. Conversely, stabilization of HIF-1alpha via inhibition of oxygen-sensing pathway led to decreased oxidative flux and promoted hematopoietic emergence in mid-gestation embryos. Thus, cell-intrinsic regulation of metabolic state overrides oxygenated microenvironment in the aorta to promote a glycolytic metabolic state that is crucial for hematopoietic emergence in mammalian embryos.
PXD043997	38364257	High-Resolution Comparative and Quantitative Proteomics of Biogenic-Amine-Producing Bacteria and Virulence Factors Present in Seafood. 	High-Intensity Comparative and Quantitative Proteomics of Histamine-Forming and Other Biogenic Amine-Producing Bacteria Present in Seafood	Biogenic amine, bacteria, bacterial detection, fish, shotgun quantitative proteomics	The presence of biogenic amines (histamine, tyramine, putrescine, and cadaverine) in seafood is a significant concern for food safety. This review describes for the first time a shotgun quantitative proteomics strategy to evaluate and compare foodborne strains of bacteria that produce biogenic amines in seafoods. This approach recognized 35,621 peptide spectrum matches, belonging to 20,792 peptides, and 4621 proteins. It allowed the determination of functional pathways and the classification of the strains into hierarchical clusters. The study identified a protein-protein interaction network involving 1160 nodes/10,318 edges. Proteins were related to energy pathways, spermidine biosynthesis, and putrescine metabolism. Label-free quantitative proteomics allowed the identification of differentially regulated proteins in specific strains such as putrescine aminotransferase, arginine decarboxylase, and l-histidine-binding protein. Additionally, 123 peptides were characterized as virulence factors and 299 peptide biomarkers were selected to identify bacterial species in fish products. This study presents the most extensive proteomic repository and progress in the science of food biogenic bacteria and could be applied in the food industry for the detection of bacterial contamination that produces histamine and other biogenic amines during food processing/storage.
PXD047131	38364687	Propagation of a rapid cell-to-cell H2O2 signal over long distances in a monolayer of cardiomyocyte cells. 	Propagation of a rapid cell-to-cell H2O2 signal over long distances in a monolayer of cardiomyocyte cells	Cell-to-cell, Gap junction, Hydrogen peroxide, Signal transduction, Superoxide	Cell-to-cell communication plays a cardinal role in the biology of multicellular organisms. H2O2 is an important cell-to-cell signaling molecule involved in the response of mammalian cells to wounding and other stimuli. We previously identified a signaling pathway that transmits wound-induced cell-to-cell H2O2 signals within minutes over long distances, measured in centimeters, in a monolayer of cardiomyocytes. Here we report that this long-distance H2O2 signaling pathway is accompanied by enhanced accumulation of cytosolic H2O2 and altered redox state in cells along its path. We further show that it requires the production of superoxide, as well as the function of gap junctions, and that it is accompanied by changes in the abundance of hundreds of proteins in cells along its path. Our findings highlight the existence of a unique and rapid long-distance H2O2 signaling pathway that could play an important role in different inflammatory responses, wound responses/healing, cardiovascular disease, and/or other conditions.
PXD048765	38364992	The Quantitative Biotinylproteomics Studies Reveal a WInd-Related Kinase 1 (WIRK1) Functioning as An Early Signaling Component in Wind-induced Thigmomorphogenesis and Gravitropism. 	The quantitative biotinylproteomics studies reveals WInd-Related Kinase (WIRK1) functioning as a wind signaling component in Wind-induced Thigmomorphpgenesis and Gravitropism	4C Quantitative biotinylproteomics, Biotin occupancy ratio (BOR), Gravity force signaling, In planta proximity-labeling (IP-PL), WInd-Related Kinase 1 (WIRK 1), Wind force signaling	Wind is one of the most prevalent environmental forces entraining plants to develop various mechano-responses, collectively called thigmomorphogenesis. Largely unknown is how plants transduce these versatile wind force signals downstream to nuclear events and to the development of thigmomorphogenic phenotype or anemotropic response. To identify molecular components at the early steps of the wind force signaling, two mechanical signaling-related phosphoproteins, identified from our previous phosphoproteomic study of Arabidopsis touch response, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MKK1) and 2 (MKK2) were selected for performing in planta TurboID (ID)-based proximity-labeling (PL) proteomics. This quantitative biotinylproteomics was separately performed on MKK1-ID and MKK2-ID transgenic plants, respectively, using the genetically engineered TurboID biotin ligase expression transgenics as a universal control. This PTM proteomics successfully identified 11 and 71 MKK1 and MKK2 interactors, respectively. Biotin occupancy ratio (BOR) was found to be an alternative parameter to measure the specificity of bait fusion protein toward the target interactor. Bioinformatics analysis of these biotinylprotein data also found that TurboID biotin ligase favorably label the loop region of target proteins. A WInd-Related Kinase 1 (WIRK1), previously known as Raf-like kinase 36 (RAF 36), was found to be a common interactor for both MKK1 and MKK2, and preferentially interacts with MKK2. Further molecular biology studies of the Arabidopsis RAF36 kinase found that it plays a role in wind regulation of the touch-responsive TCH3 and CML38 gene expression and the phosphorylation of a touch-regulated PATL3 phosphoprotein. Measurement of leaf morphology and shoot gravitropic response of wirk1-1 mutant revealed that the WIRK1 gene is involved in both wind-triggered rosette thigmomorphogenesis and gravitropism of Arabidopsis stems, suggesting that the WIRK1 protein probably functioning upstream of both MKK1 and MKK2, and that it may serve as the crosstalk point among multiple mechano-signal transduction pathways mediating both wind mechano-response and gravitropism.
PXD039267	38365228	Nitrate-driven anaerobic oxidation of ethane and butane by bacteria. 	Anaerobic ethane and butane oxidation	butane, ethane, nitrate.	The short-chain gaseous alkanes (ethane, propane, and butane; SCGAs) are important components of natural gas, yet their fate in environmental systems is poorly understood. Microbially mediated anaerobic oxidation of SCGAs coupled to nitrate reduction has been demonstrated for propane, but is yet to be shown for ethane or butane-despite being energetically feasible. Here we report two independent bacterial enrichments performing anaerobic ethane and butane oxidation, respectively, coupled to nitrate reduction to dinitrogen gas and ammonium. Isotopic 13C- and 15N-labelling experiments, mass and electron balance tests, and metabolite and meta-omics analyses collectively reveal that the recently described propane-oxidizing "Candidatus Alkanivorans nitratireducens" was also responsible for nitrate-dependent anaerobic oxidation of the SCGAs in both these enrichments. The complete genome of this species encodes alkylsuccinate synthase genes for the activation of ethane/butane via fumarate addition. Further substrate range tests confirm that "Ca. A. nitratireducens" is metabolically versatile, being able to degrade ethane, propane, and butane under anoxic conditions. Moreover, our study proves nitrate as an additional electron sink for ethane and butane in anaerobic environments, and for the first time demonstrates the use of the fumarate addition pathway in anaerobic ethane oxidation. These findings contribute to our understanding of microbial metabolism of SCGAs in anaerobic environments.
PXD041754	38365588	Glutathione S-transferase activity facilitates rice tolerance to the barnyard grass root exudate DIMBOA. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of DIMBOA-treated rice seedlings	DIMBOA treatment, iTRAQ quantitative proteomics, rice	BACKGROUND: In paddy fields, the noxious weed barnyard grass secretes 2,4-dihydroxy-7-methoxy-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one (DIMBOA) to interfere with rice growth. Rice is unable to synthesize DIMBOA. Rice cultivars with high or low levels of allelopathy may respond differently to DIMBOA. RESULTS: In this study, we found that low concentrations of DIMBOA (<= 0.06 mM) promoted seedling growth in allelopathic rice PI312777, while DIMBOA (<= 0.08 mM) had no significant influence on the nonallelopathic rice Lemont. DIMBOA treatment caused changes in the expression of a large number of glutathione S-transferase (GST) proteins, which resulting in enrichment of the glutathione metabolic pathway. This pathway facilitates plant detoxification of heterologous substances. The basal levels of GST activity in Lemont were significantly higher than those in PI312777, while GST activity in PI312777 was slightly induced by increasing DIMBOA concentrations. Overexpression of GST genes (Os09g0367700 and Os01g0949800) in these two cultivars enhanced rice resistance to DIMBOA. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results indicated that different rice accessions with different levels of allelopathy have variable tolerance to DIMBOA. Lemont had higher GST activity, which helped it tolerate DIMBOA, while PI312777 had lower GST activity that was more inducible. The enhancement of GST expression facilitates rice tolerance to DIMBOA toxins from barnyard grass root exudates.
PXD048128	38366571	Zebrafish Mbd5 binds to RNA m5C and regulates histone deubiquitylation and gene expression in development metabolism and behavior. 	LC-MS/MS after Immunoprecipitation with Mbd5 in zebrafish at 4dpf	zebrafish Mbd5  Co-IP	Complex biological processes are regulated by both genetic and epigenetic programs. One class of epigenetic modifications is methylation. Evolutionarily conserved methyl-CpG-binding domain (MBD)-containing proteins are known as readers of DNA methylation. MBD5 is linked to multiple human diseases but its mechanism of action remains unclear. Here we report that the zebrafish Mbd5 does not bind to methylated DNA; but rather, it directly binds to 5-methylcytosine (m5C)-modified mRNAs and regulates embryonic development, erythrocyte differentiation, iron metabolism, and behavior. We further show that Mbd5 facilitates removal of the monoubiquitin mark at histone H2A-K119 through an interaction with the Polycomb repressive deubiquitinase (PR-DUB) complex in vivo. The direct target genes of Mbd5 are enriched with both RNA m5C and H2A-K119 ubiquitylation signals. Together, we propose that zebrafish MBD5 is an RNA m5C reader that potentially links RNA methylation to histone modification and in turn transcription regulation in vivo.
PXD041993	38366593	Phospholipids with two polyunsaturated fatty acyl tails promote ferroptosis. 	Phospholipids with two polyunsaturated fatty acyl tails drive ferroptosi.	PUFA, Polyunsaturated fatty acid, ROS, complex I, ferroptosis, lipids, mitochondria, phospholipid	Phospholipids containing a single polyunsaturated fatty acyl tail (PL-PUFA1s) are considered the driving force behind ferroptosis, whereas phospholipids with diacyl-PUFA tails (PL-PUFA2s) have been rarely characterized. Dietary lipids modulate ferroptosis, but the mechanisms governing lipid metabolism and ferroptosis sensitivity are not well understood. Our research revealed a significant accumulation of diacyl-PUFA phosphatidylcholines (PC-PUFA2s) following fatty acid or phospholipid treatments, correlating with cancer cell sensitivity to ferroptosis. Depletion of PC-PUFA2s occurred in aging and Huntington's disease brain tissue, linking it to ferroptosis. Notably, PC-PUFA2s interacted with the mitochondrial electron transport chain, generating reactive oxygen species (ROS) for initiating lipid peroxidation. Mitochondria-targeted antioxidants protected cells from PC-PUFA2-induced mitochondrial ROS (mtROS), lipid peroxidation, and cell death. These findings reveal a critical role for PC-PUFA2s in controlling mitochondria homeostasis and ferroptosis in various contexts and explain the ferroptosis-modulating mechanisms of free fatty acids. PC-PUFA2s may serve as diagnostic and therapeutic targets for modulating ferroptosis.
PXD047584	38367214	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Aqueous Humor Reveals Biochemical Disparities in the Eyes of High Myopic Patients. 	Comparative Proteomic AnalyComparative Proteomic Analysis of Aqueous Humor Reveals Biochemical Disparities in Eyes of High Myopic Patientssis of Aqueous Humor Reveals Biochemical Disparities in Eyes of High Myopic Patients	aqueous humor, axial length, lipoprotein, myopia, proteomic analysis	Myopia accounts for a significant proportion of visual lesions worldwide and has the potential to progress toward pathological myopia. This study aims to reveal the difference in protein content in aqueous humor between high myopic and nonhigh myopic patients, as well as better understand the dysregulation of proteins in myopic eyes. Aqueous humor was collected for liquid chromatograph mass spectrometer (LC/MS) analysis from 30 individual eyes that underwent phacoemulsification and intraocular lens (IOL) implantation. Results showed that a total of 190 differentially expressed proteins were identified, which revealed their involvement in cell metabolism, immune and inflammatory response, and system and anatomical structure. Further analysis focused on 15 intensively interacted hub proteins, encompassing functions related to complement cascades, lipoprotein metabolism, and fibrin biological function. Subsequent validations demonstrated elevated levels of APOE (apolipoprotein E), C3 (complement 3), and AHSG (alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein) in the high myopia group (31 eyes of cataracts and 45 eyes of high myopia with cataracts). AHSG had a significant positive correlation with axial length in high myopic patients, with good efficacy in distinguishing between myopic and nonmyopic groups. AHSG may be a potential indicator of the pathological severity and participator in the pathological progress of high myopia. This study depicted differential expression characteristics of aqueous humor in patients with high myopia and provided optional information for further experimental research on exploring the molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets for high myopia. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD047584.
PXD042494	38367561	Comparative analysis of LC-MS/MS and real-time PCR assays for efficient detection of potential allergenic silkworm. 	Comparison of LC-MS/MS and real-time PCR assays for the efficient detection of potentially allergenic silkworm	Alpha-amlyase, Bombyx mori, Lipoprotein, Model cookies, Real-time PCR, Silkworm	The silkworm (Bombyx mori) has long been valued food and feed in East Asia for its abundant nutritional and medicinal attributes, conversely, it can elicit allergic responses in susceptible individuals. Therefore, the development of silkworm detection method is required to avert allergenic incidents. In this study, two methodologies, tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and real-time PCR, were developed to achieve effective silkworm detection. These methods exhibited exceptional sensitivity in identifying silkworm presence in processed foods. Furthermore, model cookies spiked with silkworm were used to validate the sensitivities of LC-MS/MS (0.0005%) and real-time PCR (0.001%). Overall, these techniques were useful for trace silkworm detection in food products; therefore, they may help prevent allergic reactions. To the best of our knowledge, this study represents the first comparison of LC-MS/MS and real-time PCR methods for silkworm detection, marking an important contribution to the field. Data are available from ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD042494.
PXD046591	38367664	Compartmentalization of galactan biosynthesis in mycobacteria. 	Galactan polymerization in mycobacteria requires cell wall components	GlfT1, M. smegmatis, cell envelope, enzyme fraction	Galactan polymer is a prominent component of the mycobacterial cell wall core. Its biogenesis starts at the cytoplasmic side of the plasma membrane by a build-up of the linker disaccharide [rhamnosyl (Rha) - N-acetyl-glucosaminyl (GlcNAc) phosphate] on the decaprenyl-phosphate carrier. This decaprenyl-P-P-GlcNAc-Rha intermediate is extended by two bifunctional galactosyl transferases, GlfT1 and GlfT2 and then it is translocated to the periplasmic space by an ABC transporter Wzm-Wzt. The cell wall core synthesis is finalized by the action of an array of arabinosyl transferases, mycolyl transferases and ligases that catalyze an attachment of the arabinogalactan polymer to peptidoglycan through the linker region. Based on visualization of the GlfT2 enzyme fused with fluorescent tags it was proposed that galactan polymerization takes place in a specific compartment of the mycobacterial cell envelope, the intracellular membrane domain (IMD), previously called PMf domain (plasma membrane free of cell wall components), which localizes to the polar region of mycobacterium. In this work, we examined the activity of the galactan-producing cellular machine in the cell-wall containing cell envelope fraction and in the cell wall-free plasma membrane fraction prepared from Mycobacterium smegmatis by the enzyme assays using radioactively labeled substrate UDP-[(14)C]-Galactose as a tracer. We found that despite a high abundance of GlfT2 in both of these fractions as confirmed by their thorough proteomic analyses, galactan is produced only in the reaction mixtures containing the cell wall components. Our findings open the discussion about the distribution of GlfT2 and the regulation of its activity in mycobacteria.
PXD042279	38368111	Improving impact of heparan sulfate on the endothelial glycocalyx abnormalities in atherosclerosis as revealed by glycan-protein interactome. 	Improving impact of heparan sulfate on the endothelial glycocalyx abnormalities in atherosclerosis as revealed by glycan-protein interactome	glycan-protein interactome	Endothelial dysfunction induced by oxidative stress is an early predictor of atherosclerosis, which can cause various cardiovascular diseases. The glycocalyx layer on the endothelial cell surface acts as a barrier to maintain endothelial biological function, and it can be impaired by oxidative stress. However, the mechanism of glycocalyx damage during the development of atherosclerosis remains largely unclear. Herein, we established a novel strategy to address these issues from the glycomic perspective that has long been neglected. Using countercharged fluorescence protein staining and quantitative mass spectrometry, we found that heparan sulfate, a major component of the glycocalyx, was structurally altered by oxidative stress. Comparative proteomics and protein microarray analysis revealed several new heparan sulfate-binding proteins, among which alpha-2-Heremans-Schmid glycoprotein (AHSG) was identified as a critical protein. The molecular mechanism of AHSG with heparin was characterized through several methods. A heparan analog could relieve atherosclerosis by protecting heparan sulfate from degradation during oxidative stress and by reducing the accumulation of AHSG at lesion sites. In the present study, the molecular mechanism of anti-atherosclerotic effect of heparin through interaction with AHSG was revealed. These findings provide new insights into understanding of glycocalyx damage in atherosclerosis and lead to the development of corresponding therapeutics.
PXD040318	38368419	Spatiotemporal and direct capturing global substrates of lysine-modifying enzymes in living cells. 	Spatiotemporally direct capturing global substrates of post-translational modifying enzymes in living cells	crosslinking, living cell, post-translational modification	Protein-modifying enzymes regulate the dynamics of myriad post-translational modification (PTM) substrates. Precise characterization of enzyme-substrate associations is essential for the molecular basis of cellular function and phenotype. Methods for direct capturing global substrates of protein-modifying enzymes in living cells are with many challenges, and yet largely unexplored. Here, we report a strategy to directly capture substrates of lysine-modifying enzymes via PTM-acceptor residue crosslinking in living cells, enabling global profiling of substrates of PTM-enzymes and validation of PTM-sites in a straightforward manner. By integrating enzymatic PTM-mechanisms, and genetically encoding residue-selective photo-crosslinker into PTM-enzymes, our strategy expands the substrate profiles of both bacterial and mammalian lysine acylation enzymes, including bacterial lysine acylases PatZ, YiaC, LplA, TmcA, and YjaB, as well as mammalian acyltransferases GCN5 and Tip60, leading to discovery of distinct yet functionally important substrates and acylation sites. The concept of direct capturing substrates of PTM-enzymes via residue crosslinking may extend to the other types of amino acid residues beyond lysine, which has the potential to facilitate the investigation of diverse types of PTMs and substrate-enzyme interactive proteomics.
PXD048129	38368448	ALLO-1- and IKKE-1-dependent positive feedback mechanism promotes the initiation of paternal mitochondrial autophagy. 	GFP-Trap of EPG-7 to identify phosphorylation sites	EPG-7, GFP-Trap, phosphorylation	Allophagy is responsible for the selective removal of paternally inherited organelles, including mitochondria, in Caenorhabditis elegans embryos, thereby facilitating the maternal inheritance of mitochondrial DNA. We previously identified two key factors in allophagy: an autophagy adaptor allophagy-1 (ALLO-1) and TBK1/IKKepsilon family kinase IKKE-1. However, the precise mechanisms by which ALLO-1 and IKKE-1 regulate local autophagosome formation remain unclear. In this study, we identify two ALLO-1 isoforms with different substrate preferences during allophagy. Live imaging reveals a stepwise mechanism of ALLO-1 localization with rapid cargo recognition, followed by ALLO-1 accumulation around the cargo. In the ikke-1 mutant, the accumulation of ALLO-1, and not the recognition of cargo, is impaired, resulting in the failure of isolation membrane formation. Our results also suggest a feedback mechanism for ALLO-1 accumulation via EPG-7/ATG-11, a worm homolog of FIP200, which is a candidate for IKKE-1-dependent phosphorylation. This feedback mechanism may underlie the ALLO-1-dependent initiation and progression of autophagosome formation around paternal organelles.
PXD048666	38368608	Shigella induces stress granule formation by ADP-riboxanation of the eIF3 complex. 	Shigella induces stress granule formation by ADP-riboxanation of the eIF3 complex	ADP-riboxanation, stress granule	Under stress conditions, translationally stalled mRNA and associated proteins undergo liquid-liquid phase separation and condense into cytoplasmic foci called stress granules (SGs). Many viruses hijack SGs for their pathogenesis; however, whether pathogenic bacteria also exploit this pathway remains unknown. Here, we report that members of the OspC family of Shigella flexneri induce SG formation in infected cells. Mechanistically, the OspC effectors target multiple subunits of the host translation initiation factor 3 complex by ADP-riboxanation. The modification of eIF3 leads to translational arrest and thus the formation of SGs. Furthermore, OspC-mediated SGs are beneficial for S. flexneri replication within infected host cells, and bacterial strains unable to induce SGs are attenuated for virulence in a murine model of infection. Our findings reveal a mechanism by which bacterial pathogens induce SG assembly by inactivating host translational machinery and promote bacterial proliferation in host cells.
PXD039868	38369052	Genome-scale and pathway engineering for the sustainable aviation fuel precursor isoprenol production in Pseudomonas putida. 	Comprehensive genome-scale and pathway engineering for production of the sustainable aviation fuel in Pseudomonas putida	Pseudomonas putida, SAF, metabolic engineering, synthetic biology	Sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) will significantly impact global warming in the aviation sector, and important SAF targets are emerging. Isoprenol is a precursor for a promising SAF compound DMCO (1,4-dimethylcyclooctane) and has been produced in several engineered microorganisms. Recently, Pseudomonas putida has gained interest as a future host for isoprenol bioproduction as it can utilize carbon sources from inexpensive plant biomass. Here, we engineer metabolically versatile host P. putida for isoprenol production. We employ two computational modeling approaches (Bilevel optimization and Constrained Minimal Cut Sets) to predict gene knockout targets and optimize the "IPP-bypass" pathway in P. putida to maximize isoprenol production. Altogether, the highest isoprenol production titer from P. putida was achieved at 3.5 g/L under fed-batch conditions. This combination of computational modeling and strain engineering on P. putida for an advanced biofuels production has vital significance in enabling a bioproduction process that can use renewable carbon streams.
PXD047072	38372302	Novel modifications of PARP inhibitor veliparib increase PARP1 binding to DNA breaks. 	Novel modifications of PARP inhibitor veliparib increase PARP1 binding to DNA breaks	HDX-MS, PARP1, PARPi, allostery	Catalytic poly(ADP-ribose) production by PARP1 is allosterically activated through interaction with DNA breaks, and PARP inhibitor compounds have the potential to influence PARP1 allostery in addition to preventing catalytic activity. Using the benzimidazole-4-carboxamide pharmacophore present in the first generation PARP1 inhibitor veliparib, a series of eleven derivatives was designed, synthesized, and evaluated as allosteric PARP1 inhibitors, with the premise that bulky substituents would engage the HD regulatory domain and thereby promote PARP1 retention on DNA breaks. We found that core scaffold modifications could indeed increase PARP1 affinity for DNA; however, the bulk of the modification alone was insufficient to trigger PARP1 allosteric retention on DNA breaks. Rather, compounds eliciting PARP1 retention on DNA breaks were found to be rigidly held in a position that interferes with a specific region of the HD domain, a region that is not targeted by current clinical PARP inhibitors. Collectively, these compounds highlight a unique way to trigger PARP1 retention on DNA breaks and open a path to unveil the pharmacological benefits of such inhibitors with novel properties.
PXD043347	38372774	Leveraging Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry for Modeling Antibody-Antigen Complexes. 	Epitope and Paratope Mapping of TNFalpha/Infliximab complex by cross-linking mass spectrometry and integrative modeling reveals high level of interaction specificity	Cross-linking mass spectrometry, Epitope/Paratope mapping, Integrative modeling, Monoclonal antibodies	Elucidating antibody-antigen complexes at the atomic level is of utmost interest for understanding immune responses and designing better therapies. Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has emerged as a powerful tool for mapping protein-protein interactions, suggesting valuable structural insights. However, the use of XL-MS studies to enable epitope/paratope mapping of antibody-antigen complexes is still limited up to now. XL-MS data can be used to drive integrative modeling of antibody-antigen complexes, where cross-links information serves as distance restraints for the precise determination of binding interfaces. In this approach, XL-MS data are employed to identify connections between binding interfaces of the antibody and the antigen, thus informing molecular modeling. Current literature provides minimal input about the impact of XL-MS data on the integrative modeling of antibody-antigen complexes. Here, we applied XL-MS to retrieve information about binding interfaces of three antibody-antigen complexes. We leveraged XL-MS data to perform integrative modeling using HADDOCK (active-passive residues and distance restraints strategies) and AlphaLink2. We then compared these three approaches with initial predictions of investigated antibody-antigen complexes by AlphaFold Multimer. This work emphasizes the importance of cross-linking data in resolving conformational dynamics of antibody-antigen complexes, ultimately enhancing the design of better protein therapeutics and vaccines.
PXD047852	38373391	Proteomic Analysis Identifies GSN as a Noninvasive Circulating Serum Biomarker for Predicting Early Recurrence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis identifies GSN as non-invasive circulating serum biomarker for predicting early recurrence in hepatocellular carcinoma	DIA, GSN, PRM, serum	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is susceptible to early recurrence, but it lacks effective predictive biomarkers. In this study, we retrospectively selected 179 individuals as a discovery cohort (126 HCC patients and 53 liver cirrhosis (LC) patients) for screening candidate serum biomarkers of early recurrence based on data independent acquisition-mass spectrometry strategy. And then, the candidate biomarkers were validated in an additional independent cohort with 192 individuals (142 HCC patients and 50 LC patients) using parallel reaction monitoring targeted quantitative techniques (PXD047852). Eventually, we validated that gelsolin (GSN) concentrations were significantly lower in HCC than in LC (p < 0.0001), patients with low GSN concentrations had a poor prognosis (p < 0.0001), and GSN concentrations were significantly lower in early recurrence HCC than in late recurrence HCC (p < 0.0001). These trends were also observed in alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)-negative HCC patients. The area under the curve of machine-learning-based predictive model (GSN and microvascular invasion) for predicting early recurrence risk reached 0.803 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.786-0.820) and maintained the same efficacy in AFP-negative patients. In conclusion, GSN is a novel serum biomarker for early recurrence of HCC. The model could provide timely warning to HCC patients at high risk of recurrence.
PXD046271	38376171	Methionine oxidation of carbohydrate-active enzymes during white-rot wood decay. 	Shotgun proteomic analysis of the Methionine oxidation of carbohydrate-active enzymes during white-rot wood decay.	carbohydrate-active enzymes, fungi, methionine oxidation, plant cell wall, redox proteomics, wood decay	White-rot fungi employ secreted carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) along with reactive oxygen species (ROS), like hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), to degrade lignocellulose in wood. H2O2 serves as a co-substrate for key oxidoreductases during the initial decay phase. While the degradation of lignocellulose by CAZymes is well documented, the impact of ROS on the oxidation of the secreted proteins remains unclear, and the identity of the oxidized proteins is unknown. Methionine (Met) can be oxidized to Met sulfoxide (MetO) or Met sulfone (MetO2) with potential deleterious, antioxidant, or regulatory effects. Other residues, like proline (Pro), can undergo carbonylation. Using the white-rot Pycnoporus cinnabarinus grown on aspen wood, we analyzed the Met content of the secreted proteins and their susceptibility to oxidation combining H2(18)O2 with deep shotgun proteomics. Strikingly, their overall Met content was significantly lower (1.4%) compared to intracellular proteins (2.1%), a feature conserved in fungi but not in metazoans or plants. We evidenced that a catalase, widespread in white-rot fungi, protects the secreted proteins from oxidation. Our redox proteomics approach allowed the identification of 49 oxidizable Met and 40 oxidizable Pro residues within few secreted proteins, mostly CAZymes. Interestingly, many of them had several oxidized residues localized in hotspots. Some Met, including those in GH7 cellobiohydrolases, were oxidized up to 47%, with a substantial percentage of sulfone (13%). These Met are conserved in fungal homologs, suggesting important functional roles. Our findings reveal that white-rot fungi safeguard their secreted proteins by minimizing their Met content and by scavenging ROS and pinpoint redox-active residues in CAZymes.IMPORTANCEThe study of lignocellulose degradation by fungi is critical for understanding the ecological and industrial implications of wood decay. While carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) play a well-established role in lignocellulose degradation, the impact of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) on secreted proteins remains unclear. This study aims at evaluating the effect of H2O2 on secreted proteins, focusing on the oxidation of methionine (Met). Using the model white-rot fungi Pycnoporus cinnabarinus grown on aspen wood, we showed that fungi protect their secreted proteins from oxidation by reducing their Met content and utilizing a secreted catalase to scavenge exogenous H2O2. The research identified key oxidizable Met within secreted CAZymes. Importantly, some Met, like those of GH7 cellobiohydrolases, undergone substantial oxidation levels suggesting important roles in lignocellulose degradation. These findings highlight the adaptive mechanisms employed by white-rot fungi to safeguard their secreted proteins during wood decay and emphasize the importance of these processes in lignocellulose breakdown.
PXD044165	38377149	The NP protein of Newcastle disease virus dictates its oncolytic activity by regulating viral mRNA translation efficiency. 	Mass spectrometry identification of interacting proteins of the NP protein from genotype IV NDV Herts/33 and the NP protein from genotype VII NDV strain I4	NP protein, Newcastle disease virus, oncolytic virus	Newcastle disease virus (NDV) has been extensively studied as a promising oncolytic virus for killing tumor cells in vitro and in vivo in clinical trials. However, the viral components that regulate the oncolytic activity of NDV remain incompletely understood. In this study, we systematically compared the replication ability of different NDV genotypes in various tumor cells and identified NP protein determines the oncolytic activity of NDV. On the one hand, NDV strains with phenylalanine (F) at the 450th amino acid position of the NP protein (450th-F-NP) exhibit a loss of oncolytic activity. This phenotype is predominantly associated with genotype VII NDVs. In contrast, the NP protein with a leucine amino acid at this site in other genotypes (450th-L-NP) can facilitate the loading of viral mRNA onto ribosomes more effectively than 450th-F-NP. On the other hand, the NP protein from NDV strains that exhibit strong oncogenicity interacts with eIF4A1 within its 366-489 amino acid region, leading to the inhibition of cellular mRNA translation with a complex 5' UTR structure. Our study provide mechanistic insights into how highly oncolytic NDV strains selectively promote the translation of viral mRNA and will also facilitate the screening of oncolytic strains for oncolytic therapy.
PXD044759	38377575	Exploring Andean High-Altitude Lake Extremophiles through Advanced Proteotyping. 	Tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping of extremophiles sampled from high-altitude Andean lakes	Altiplano, Atacama Desert, Bacteria, High-altitude Andean lakes, Proteotyping, extremophiles, halophiles, isolate, taxonomy	Quickly identifying and characterizing isolates from extreme environments is currently challenging while very important to explore the Earth's biodiversity. As these isolates may, in principle, be distantly related to known species, techniques are needed to reliably identify the branch of life to which they belong. Proteotyping these environmental isolates by tandem mass spectrometry offers a rapid and cost-effective option for their identification using their peptide profiles. In this study, we document the first high-throughput proteotyping approach for environmental extremophilic and halophilic isolates. Microorganisms were isolated from samples originating from high-altitude Andean lakes (3700-4300 m a.s.l.) in the Chilean Altiplano, which represent environments on Earth that resemble conditions on other planets. A total of 66 microorganisms were cultivated and identified by proteotyping and 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Both the approaches revealed the same genus identification for all isolates except for three isolates possibly representing not yet taxonomically characterized organisms based on their peptidomes. Proteotyping was able to indicate the presence of two potentially new genera from the families of Paracoccaceae and Chromatiaceae/Alteromonadaceae, which have been overlooked by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing approach only. The paper highlights that proteotyping has the potential to discover undescribed microorganisms from extreme environments.
PXD046475	38377663	How does temperature rise affect a freshwater catfish Rhamdia quelen? A proteomic approach. 	Effects of temperature and cyanotoxins on the catfish liver proteome	catfish, cyanotoxins, temperature	Outside of scientific circles, climate change is a hotly debated topic due to all its consequences. Changes in the temperature can affect aquatic organisms and it is important to understand and to detect earlier signals. This study aimed to analyze how a Neotropical fish species responds to temperature increases, using proteomic analysis as a tool. For this, fish of the species Rhamdia quelen, male and female, were exposed to two temperatures: 25 degreesC and 30 degreesC. After 96 h, the animals were anesthetized, euthanized and the liver was collected for proteomic analysis. Using freely available online software and databases (e.g. MetaboAnalyst, Gene Ontology and UniProt), we define the altered proteins in both sexes: 42 in females and 62 in males. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD046475. Differences between the two temperatures were observed mainly in the amino acid metabolic pathways. The cellular process and the immune response was altered, indicating that effects at lower levels of biological organization could serve as a predictor of higher-level effects when temperature rise affects wildlife populations. Thus, we conclude that the increase in temperature is capable of altering important cellular and physiological processes in R. quelen fish, with this response being different for males and females.
PXD048563	38378719	Genome-wide screens identify SEL1L as an intracellular rheostat controlling collagen turnover. 	Genome-wide screens identify SEL1L as an intracellular rheostat controlling collagen turnover	SEL1L	Accumulating evidence has implicated impaired extracellular matrix (ECM) clearance as a key factor in fibrotic disease. Despite decades of research elucidating the effectors of ECM clearance, relatively little is understood regarding the upstream regulation of this process. Collagen is the most abundant constituent of normal and fibrotic ECM in mammalian tissues. Its catabolism occurs through extracellular proteolysis and cell-mediated uptake of collagen fragments for intracellular degradation. Given the paucity of information regarding the regulation of this latter process, here we execute unbiased genome-wide screens to understand the molecular underpinnings of cell-mediated collagen clearance. Using this approach, we discover a mechanism through which collagen biosynthesis is sensed by cells internally and directly regulates clearance of extracellular collagen. The sensing mechanism appears to be dependent on endoplasmic reticulum-resident protein SEL1L and occurs via a noncanonical function of this protein. This pathway functions as a homeostatic negative feedback loop that limits collagen accumulation in tissues. In human fibrotic lung disease, the induction of this collagen clearance pathway by collagen synthesis is impaired, thereby contributing to the pathological accumulation of collagen in lung tissue. Thus, we describe cell-autonomous, rheostatic collagen clearance as an important pathway of tissue homeostasis.
PXD034966	38379085	Downregulation of praja2 restrains endocytosis and boosts tyrosine kinase receptors in kidney cancer. 	Downregulation of RING ligase praja2 boosts receptor tyrosine kinases in kidney cancer	LC-MS-MS, Praja2, interactome	Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common kidney cancer in the adult population. Late diagnosis, resistance to therapeutics and recurrence of metastatic lesions account for the highest mortality rate among kidney cancer patients. Identifying novel biomarkers for early cancer detection and elucidating the mechanisms underlying ccRCC will provide clues to treat this aggressive malignant tumor. Here, we report that the ubiquitin ligase praja2 forms a complex with-and ubiquitylates the AP2 adapter complex, contributing to receptor endocytosis and clearance. In human RCC tissues and cells, downregulation of praja2 by oncogenic miRNAs (oncomiRs) and the proteasome markedly impairs endocytosis and clearance of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and amplifies downstream mitogenic and proliferative signaling. Restoring praja2 levels in RCC cells downregulates EGFR, rewires cancer cell metabolism and ultimately inhibits tumor cell growth and metastasis. Accordingly, genetic ablation of praja2 in mice upregulates RTKs (i.e. EGFR and VEGFR) and induces epithelial and vascular alterations in the kidney tissue.In summary, our findings identify a regulatory loop between oncomiRs and the ubiquitin proteasome system that finely controls RTKs endocytosis and clearance, positively impacting mitogenic signaling and kidney cancer growth.
PXD049080	38379464	The protein phosphorylation landscape in photosystem I of the desert algae Chlorella sp. 	protein phosphorylation landscape in photosystem I of the desert algae Chlorella sp	Chlorella ohadii, phosphorylation, photosystem I	The phosphorylation of photosystem II (PSII) and its antenna (LHCII) proteins has been studied, and its involvement in state transitions and PSII repair is known. Yet, little is known about the phosphorylation of photosystem I (PSI) and its antenna (LHCI) proteins. Here, we applied proteomics analysis to generate a map of the phosphorylation sites of the PSI-LHCI proteins in Chlorella ohadii cells that were grown under low or extreme high-light intensities (LL and HL). Furthermore, we analyzed the content of oxidized tryptophans and PSI-LHCI protein degradation products in these cells, to estimate the light-induced damage to PSI-LHCI. Our work revealed the phosphorylation of 17 of 22 PSI-LHCI subunits. The analyses detected the extensive phosphorylation of the LHCI subunits Lhca6 and Lhca7, which is modulated by growth light intensity. Other PSI-LHCI subunits were phosphorylated to a lesser extent, including PsaE, where molecular dynamic simulation proposed that a phosphoserine stabilizes ferredoxin binding. Additionally, we show that HL-grown cells accumulate less oxidative damage and degradation products of PSI-LHCI proteins, compared with LL-grown cells. The significant phosphorylation of Lhca6 and Lhca7 at the interface with other LHCI subunits suggests a physiological role during photosynthesis, possibly by altering light-harvesting characteristics and binding of other subunits.
PXD048907	38380335	Integrin CD11c regulates B cell homeostasis. 	The role of CD11c in dendritic cells	DC	CD11c is widely known as a cell surface marker for dendritic cells, but we recently showed that it regulates neutrophil and T cell functions. Because we found that CD11c knockout (KO) mice had lower blood B cell counts, we characterized B cell profile in developmental stages. We found that CD11c KO recirculating and mature B cells was significantly fewer compared with wild type, associated with exaggerated proliferation and apoptosis. Because they did not express CD11c, we sought for the possibility of CD11c-mediated non-intrinsic regulation of B cell proliferation and apoptosis. Here we hypothesized that dendritic cells, major cells expressing CD11c would regulate B cells indirectly. The proteomics of dendritic cells cultured in vitro indicated the downregulation of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). Less MIF was also confirmed by ELISA. Furthermore, plasma MIF level was significantly lower in naive CD11c KO mice. Because MIF regulates B cell survival, we demonstrated a novel regulatory mechanism of naive B cells via CD11c.
PXD033034	38380496	Large-Scale Proteome Profiling Identifies Biomarkers Associated with Suspected Neurosyphilis Diagnosis. 	Large-scale Proteome Profiling Identifies Biomarkers Associated with Suspected Neurosyphilis Diagnosis	Cerebrospinal fluid, diagnostic biomarker, machine learning model, neurosyphilis	Neurosyphilis (NS) is a central nervous system (CNS) infection caused by Treponema pallidum (T. pallidum). NS can occur at any stage of syphilis and manifests as a broad spectrum of clinical symptoms. Often referred to as "the great imitator," NS can be easily overlooked or misdiagnosed due to the absence of standard diagnostic tests, potentially leading to severe and irreversible organ dysfunction. In this study, proteomic and machine learning model techniques are used to characterize 223 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples to identify diagnostic markers of NS and provide insights into the underlying mechanisms of the associated inflammatory responses. Three biomarkers (SEMA7A, SERPINA3, and ITIH4) are validated as contributors to NS diagnosis through multicenter verification of an additional 115 CSF samples. We anticipate that the identified biomarkers will become effective tools for assisting in diagnosis of NS. Our insights into NS pathogenesis in brain tissue may inform therapeutic strategies and drug discoveries for NS patients.
PXD048069	38382467	Disruption of MerTK increases the efficacy of checkpoint inhibitor by enhancing ferroptosis and immune response in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Disruption of MerTK Increases the Efficacy of Checkpoint Inhibitor by Enhancing Ferroptosis and Immune Response in Hepatocellular Carcinoma	MerTK anti-PD-L1, ferroptosis	Immune checkpoint inhibitors, particularly PD-1/PD-L1 blockades, have been approved for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, high resistance rates still limit their efficacy, highlighting the urgent need to understand the underlying mechanisms and develop strategies for overcoming the resistance. In this study, we demonstrate that HCC with high MER proto-oncogene tyrosine kinase (MerTK) expression exhibits anti-PD-1/PD-L1 resistance in two syngeneic mouse models and in patients who received anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. Mechanistically, MerTK renders HCC resistant to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 by limiting ferroptosis with the upregulation of SLC7A11 via the ERK/SP1 pathway and facilitating the development of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) with the recruitment of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs). Sitravatinib, an inhibitor of MerTK, sensitizes resistant HCC to anti-PD-L1 therapy by promoting tumor ferroptosis and decreasing MDSC infiltration into the TME. In conclusion, we find that MerTK could serve as a predictive biomarker for patient stratification and as a promising target to overcome anti-PD-1/PD-L1 resistance in HCC.
PXD043523	38382526	Cullin-RING ligases employ geometrically optimized catalytic partners for substrate targeting. 	Cullin-RING ligases target substrates with geometrically optimized catalytic partners	Cullin-RING ligase, ubiquitylation	Cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) ubiquitylate specific substrates selected from other cellular proteins. Substrate discrimination and ubiquitin transferase activity were thought to be strictly separated. Substrates are recognized by substrate receptors, such as Fbox or BCbox proteins. Meanwhile, CRLs employ assorted ubiquitin-carrying enzymes (UCEs, which are a collection of E2 and ARIH-family E3s) specialized for either initial substrate ubiquitylation (priming) or forging poly-ubiquitin chains. We discovered specific human CRL-UCE pairings governing substrate priming. The results reveal pairing of CUL2-based CRLs and UBE2R-family UCEs in cells, essential for efficient PROTAC-induced neo-substrate degradation. Despite UBE2R2's intrinsic programming to catalyze poly-ubiquitylation, CUL2 employs this UCE for geometrically precise PROTAC-dependent ubiquitylation of a neo-substrate and for rapid priming of substrates recruited to diverse receptors. Cryo-EM structures illuminate how CUL2-based CRLs engage UBE2R2 to activate substrate ubiquitylation. Thus, pairing with a specific UCE overcomes E2 catalytic limitations to drive substrate ubiquitylation and targeted protein degradation.
PXD021475	38383396	Regulation of beta-cell death by ADP-ribosylhydrolase ARH3 via lipid signaling in insulitis. 	Proteomics analysis of islets of 6-week old NOR and NOD mice	insulitis, islets, type 1 diabetes	BACKGROUND: Lipids are regulators of insulitis and beta-cell death in type 1 diabetes development, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we investigated how the islet lipid composition and downstream signaling regulate beta-cell death. METHODS: We performed lipidomics using three models of insulitis: human islets and EndoC-betaH1 beta cells treated with the pro-inflammatory cytokines interlukine-1beta and interferon-gamma, and islets from pre-diabetic non-obese mice. We also performed mass spectrometry and fluorescence imaging to determine the localization of lipids and enzyme in islets. RNAi, apoptotic assay, and qPCR were performed to determine the role of a specific factor in lipid-mediated cytokine signaling. RESULTS: Across all three models, lipidomic analyses showed a consistent increase of lysophosphatidylcholine species and phosphatidylcholines with polyunsaturated fatty acids and a reduction of triacylglycerol species. Imaging assays showed that phosphatidylcholines with polyunsaturated fatty acids and their hydrolyzing enzyme phospholipase PLA2G6 are enriched in islets. In downstream signaling, omega-3 fatty acids reduce cytokine-induced beta-cell death by improving the expression of ADP-ribosylhydrolase ARH3. The mechanism involves omega-3 fatty acid-mediated reduction of the histone methylation polycomb complex PRC2 component Suz12, upregulating the expression of Arh3, which in turn decreases cell apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide insights into the change of lipidomics landscape in beta cells during insulitis and identify a protective mechanism by omega-3 fatty acids. Video Abstract.
PXD042652	38383428	A proteomic classifier panel for early screening of colorectal cancer: a case control study. 	A proteomic classifier panel for early screening of colorectal cancer part II	plasma proteome biomarker	BACKGROUND: Diagnosis of colorectal cancer (CRC) during early stages can greatly improve patient outcome. Although technical advances in the field of genomics and proteomics have identified a number of candidate biomarkers for non-invasive screening and diagnosis, developing more sensitive and specific methods with improved cost-effectiveness and patient compliance has tremendous potential to help combat the disease. METHODS: We enrolled three cohorts of 479 subjects, including 226 CRC cases, 197 healthy controls, and 56 advanced precancerous lesions (APC). In the discovery cohort, we used quantitative mass spectrometry to measure the expression profile of plasma proteins and applied machine-learning to select candidate proteins. We then developed a targeted mass spectrometry assay to measure plasma concentrations of seven proteins and a logistic regression classifier to distinguish CRC from healthy subjects. The classifier was further validated using two independent cohorts. RESULTS: The seven-protein panel consisted of leucine rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 (LRG1), complement C9 (C9), insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2), carnosine dipeptidase 1 (CNDP1), inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 3 (ITIH3), serpin family A member 1 (SERPINA1), and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (ORM1). The panel classified CRC and healthy subjects with high accuracy, since the area under curve (AUC) of the training and testing cohort reached 0.954 and 0.958. The AUC of the two independent validation cohorts was 0.905 and 0.909. In one validation cohort, the panel had an overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of 89.9%, 81.8%, 89.2%, and 82.9%, respectively. In another blinded validation cohort, the panel classified CRC from healthy subjects with a sensitivity of 81.5%, specificity of 97.9%, and overall accuracy of 92.0%. Finally, the panel was able to detect APC with a sensitivity of 49%. CONCLUSIONS: This seven-protein classifier is a clear improvement compared to previously published blood-based protein biomarkers for detecting early-stage CRC, and is of translational potential to develop into a clinically useful assay.
PXD043500	38383447	LATS1/2 loss promote tumor immune evasion in endometrial cancer through downregulating MHC-I expression. 	in vitro kinase assays Identified of STAT1 phosphorylation sites-mediated LATS2	LATS2, STAT1, in vitro phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: LATS1/2 are frequently mutated and down-regulated in endometrial cancer (EC), but the contributions of LATS1/2 in EC progression remains unclear. Impaired antigen presentation due to mutations or downregulation of the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) has been implicated in tumor immune evasion. Herein, we elucidate the oncogenic role that dysregulation of LATS1/2 in EC leads to immune evasion through the down-regulation of MHC-I. METHODS: The mutation and expression as well as the clinical significance of LATS1/2 in EC was assessed in the TCGA cohort and our sample cohort. CRISPR-Cas9 was used to construct knockout cell lines of LATS1/2 in EC. Differentially expressed genes were analyzed by RNA-seq. The interaction between LATS1/2 and STAT1 was verified using co-immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down assays. Mass spectrometry, in vitro kinase assays, ChIP-qPCR, flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy were performed to investigate the regulation of LATS1/2 on MHC-I through interaction with and phosphorylate STAT1. The killing effect of activated PBMCs on EC cells were used to monitor anti-tumor activity. RESULTS: Here, we demonstrate that LATS1/2 are frequently mutated and down-regulated in EC. Moreover, LATS1/2 loss was found to be associated with a significant down-regulation of MHC-I, independently of the Hippo-YAP pathway. Instead, LATS1/2 were found to directly interact with and phosphorylate STAT1 at Ser727, a crucial transcription factor for MHC-I upregulation in response to interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) signaling, to promote STAT1 accumulating and moving into the nucleus to enhance the transcriptional activation of IRF1/NLRC5 on MHC-I. Additionally, the loss of LATS1/2 was observed to confer increased resistance of EC cells to immune cell-mediated killing and this resistance could be reversed by over-expression of MHC-I. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that dysregulation of LATS1/2 in EC leads to immune evasion through the down-regulation of MHC-I, leading to the suppression of infiltrating activated CD8 + T cells and highlight the importance of LATS1/2 in IFN-gamma signaling-mediated tumor immune response, suggesting that LATS1/2 is a promising target for immune checkpoint blockade therapy in EC.
PXD042047	38383455	Ageing-dependent thiol oxidation reveals early oxidation of proteins with core proteostasis functions. 	Analysis of ageing-dependent thiol oxidation reveals early oxidation of proteins involved in core proteostasis functions	oxICAT, proteostasis, thiol oxidation	Oxidative post-translational modifications of protein thiols are well recognized as a readily occurring alteration of proteins, which can modify their function and thus control cellular processes. The development of techniques enabling the site-specific assessment of protein thiol oxidation on a proteome-wide scale significantly expanded the number of known oxidation-sensitive protein thiols. However, lacking behind are large-scale data on the redox state of proteins during ageing, a physiological process accompanied by increased levels of endogenous oxidants. Here, we present the landscape of protein thiol oxidation in chronologically aged wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae in a time-dependent manner. Our data determine early-oxidation targets in key biological processes governing the de novo production of proteins, protein folding, and degradation, and indicate a hierarchy of cellular responses affected by a reversible redox modification. Comparison with existing datasets in yeast, nematode, fruit fly, and mouse reveals the evolutionary conservation of these oxidation targets. To facilitate accessibility, we integrated the cross-species comparison into the newly developed OxiAge Database.
PXD046626	38383487	Interorgan communication in neurogenic heterotopic ossification: the role of brain-derived extracellular vesicles. 	Interorgan communication in the neurogenic heterotopic ossification: focusing on the role of brain-derived extracellular vesicles	brain-derived extracellular vesicles, neurogenic heterotopic ossification, pyroptosis, traumatic brain injury	Brain-derived extracellular vesicles participate in interorgan communication after traumatic brain injury by transporting pathogens to initiate secondary injury. Inflammasome-related proteins encapsulated in brain-derived extracellular vesicles can cross the blood-brain barrier to reach distal tissues. These proteins initiate inflammatory dysfunction, such as neurogenic heterotopic ossification. This recurrent condition is highly debilitating to patients because of its relatively unknown pathogenesis and the lack of effective prophylactic intervention strategies. Accordingly, a rat model of neurogenic heterotopic ossification induced by combined traumatic brain injury and achillotenotomy was developed to address these two issues. Histological examination of the injured tendon revealed the coexistence of ectopic calcification and fibroblast pyroptosis. The relationships among brain-derived extracellular vesicles, fibroblast pyroptosis and ectopic calcification were further investigated in vitro and in vivo. Intravenous injection of the pyroptosis inhibitor Ac-YVAD-cmk reversed the development of neurogenic heterotopic ossification in vivo. The present work highlights the role of brain-derived extracellular vesicles in the pathogenesis of neurogenic heterotopic ossification and offers a potential strategy for preventing neurogenic heterotopic ossification after traumatic brain injury. Brain-derived extracellular vesicles (BEVs) are released after traumatic brain injury. These BEVs contain pathogens and participate in interorgan communication to initiate secondary injury in distal tissues. After achillotenotomy, the phagocytosis of BEVs by fibroblasts induces pyroptosis, which is a highly inflammatory form of lytic programmed cell death, in the injured tendon. Fibroblast pyroptosis leads to an increase in calcium and phosphorus concentrations and creates a microenvironment that promotes osteogenesis. Intravenous injection of the pyroptosis inhibitor Ac-YVAD-cmk suppressed fibroblast pyroptosis and effectively prevented the onset of heterotopic ossification after neuronal injury. The use of a pyroptosis inhibitor represents a potential strategy for the treatment of neurogenic heterotopic ossification.
PXD039687	38383592	Blood and urine multi-omics analysis of the impact of e-vaping, smoking, and cessation: from exposome to molecular responses. 	Blood and urine multi-omics analysis of the impact of e-vaping, smoking and cessation. From exposome to molecular responses	data independent acquisition, plasma, smoking	Cigarette smoking is a major preventable cause of morbidity and mortality. While quitting smoking is the best option, switching from cigarettes to non-combustible alternatives (NCAs) such as e-vapor products is a viable harm reduction approach for smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke. A key challenge for the clinical assessment of NCAs is that self-reported product use can be unreliable, compromising the proper evaluation of their risk reduction potential. In this cross-sectional study of 205 healthy volunteers, we combined comprehensive exposure characterization with in-depth multi-omics profiling to compare effects across four study groups: cigarette smokers (CS), e-vapor users (EV), former smokers (FS), and never smokers (NS). Multi-omics analyses included metabolomics, transcriptomics, DNA methylomics, proteomics, and lipidomics. Comparison of the molecular effects between CS and NS recapitulated several previous observations, such as increased inflammatory markers in CS. Generally, FS and EV demonstrated intermediate molecular effects between the NS and CS groups. Stratification of the FS and EV by combustion exposure markers suggested that this position on the spectrum between CS and NS was partially driven by non-compliance/dual use. Overall, this study highlights the importance of in-depth exposure characterization before biological effect characterization for any NCA assessment study.
PXD040570	38383787	Targeted protein degradation via intramolecular bivalent glues. 	BRD4 degradation via stabilization of a native interaction with DCAF16	BRD4 degradation, GNE-0011, KBM7, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, PROTAC, chemical proteomics, small molecule induced proximity	Targeted protein degradation is a pharmacological modality that is based on the induced proximity of an E3 ubiquitin ligase and a target protein to promote target ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. This has been achieved either via proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs)-bifunctional compounds composed of two separate moieties that individually bind the target and E3 ligase, or via molecular glues that monovalently bind either the ligase or the target(1-4). Here, using orthogonal genetic screening, biophysical characterization and structural reconstitution, we investigate the mechanism of action of bifunctional degraders of BRD2 and BRD4, termed intramolecular bivalent glues (IBGs), and find that instead of connecting target and ligase in trans as PROTACs do, they simultaneously engage and connect two adjacent domains of the target protein in cis. This conformational change 'glues' BRD4 to the E3 ligases DCAF11 or DCAF16, leveraging intrinsic target-ligase affinities that do not translate to BRD4 degradation in the absence of compound. Structural insights into the ternary BRD4-IBG1-DCAF16 complex guided the rational design of improved degraders of low picomolar potency. We thus introduce a new modality in targeted protein degradation, which works by bridging protein domains in cis to enhance surface complementarity with E3 ligases for productive ubiquitination and degradation.
PXD046990	38383789	The UFM1 E3 ligase recognizes and releases 60S ribosomes from ER translocons. 	Mechanism of 60S ribosomal subunit recognition and UFMylation by the UFM1 E3 ligase complex	UFM, XL-MS, ribosome	Stalled ribosomes at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are covalently modified with the ubiquitin-like protein UFM1 on the 60S ribosomal subunit protein RPL26 (also known as uL24)(1,2). This modification, which is known as UFMylation, is orchestrated by the UFM1 ribosome E3 ligase (UREL) complex, comprising UFL1, UFBP1 and CDK5RAP3 (ref. (3)). However, the catalytic mechanism of UREL and the functional consequences of UFMylation are unclear. Here we present cryo-electron microscopy structures of UREL bound to 60S ribosomes, revealing the basis of its substrate specificity. UREL wraps around the 60S subunit to form a C-shaped clamp architecture that blocks the tRNA-binding sites at one end, and the peptide exit tunnel at the other. A UFL1 loop inserts into and remodels the peptidyl transferase centre. These features of UREL suggest a crucial function for UFMylation in the release and recycling of stalled or terminated ribosomes from the ER membrane. In the absence of functional UREL, 60S-SEC61 translocon complexes accumulate at the ER membrane, demonstrating that UFMylation is necessary for releasing SEC61 from 60S subunits. Notably, this release is facilitated by a functional switch of UREL from a 'writer' to a 'reader' module that recognizes its product-UFMylated 60S ribosomes. Collectively, we identify a fundamental role for UREL in dissociating 60S subunits from the SEC61 translocon and the basis for UFMylation in regulating protein homeostasis at the ER.
PXD043334	38384833	PCID2 dysregulates transcription and viral RNA processing to promote HIV-1 latency. 	PCID2 regulates HIV-1 transcription and viral RNA processing during latency	PCID2 regulates HIV-1 transcription and viral RNA processing during latency	HIV-1 latency results from tightly regulated molecular processes that act at distinct steps of HIV-1 gene expression. Here, we characterize PCI domain-containing 2 (PCID2) protein, a subunit of the transcription and export complex 2 (TREX2) complex, to enforce transcriptional repression and post-transcriptional blocks to HIV-1 gene expression during latency. PCID2 bound the latent HIV-1 LTR (long terminal repeat) and repressed transcription initiation during latency. Depletion of PCID2 remodeled the chromatin landscape at the HIV-1 promoter and resulted in transcriptional activation and latency reversal. Immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry identified PCID2-interacting proteins to include negative viral RNA (vRNA) splicing regulators, and PCID2 depletion resulted in over-splicing of intron-containing vRNA in cell lines and primary cells obtained from PWH. MCM3AP and DSS1, two other RNA-binding TREX2 complex subunits, also inhibit transcription initiation and vRNA alternative splicing during latency. Thus, PCID2 is a novel HIV-1 latency-promoting factor, which in context of the TREX2 sub-complex PCID2-DSS1-MCM3AP blocks transcription and dysregulates vRNA processing.
PXD048594	38384836	Heat stress promotes Arabidopsis AGO1 phase separation and association with stress granule components. 	Arabidopsis AGO1 N-terminal Poly-Q domain promotes phase separation and association with stress granules during heat stress	AGO1, RNA silencing, heat stress, phase separation, stress granule	In Arabidopsis thaliana, ARGONAUTE1 (AGO1) plays a central role in microRNA (miRNA) and small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated silencing. AGO1 associates to the rough endoplasmic reticulum to conduct miRNA-mediated translational repression, mRNA cleavage, and biogenesis of phased siRNAs. Here, we show that a 37degreesC heat stress (HS) promotes AGO1 protein accumulation in cytosolic condensates where it colocalizes with components of siRNA bodies and of stress granules. AGO1 contains a prion-like domain in its poorly characterized N-terminal Poly-Q domain, which is sufficient to undergo phase separation independently of the presence of SGS3. HS only moderately affects the small RNA repertoire, the loading of AGO1 by miRNAs, and the signatures of target cleavage, suggesting that its localization in condensates protects AGO1 rather than promoting or impairing its activity in reprogramming gene expression during stress. Collectively, our work sheds new light on the impact of high temperature on a main effector of RNA silencing in plants.
PXD043086	38384854	An integrative proteomics approach identifies tyrosine kinase KIT as a therapeutic target for SPINK1-positive prostate cancer. 	An integrative proteomics approach to identify novel therapeutic targets for SPINK1-positive prostate cancer.	Integrative proteome profiling, Prostate Cancer, SPINK1	Elevated serine peptidase inhibitor, Kazal type 1 (SPINK1) levels in ~10%-25% of prostate cancer (PCa) patients associate with aggressive phenotype, for which there are limited treatment choices and dismal clinical outcomes. Using an integrative proteomics approach involving label-free phosphoproteome and proteome profiling, we delineated the downstream signaling pathways involved in SPINK1-mediated tumorigenesis and identified tyrosine kinase KIT as highly enriched. Furthermore, high to moderate levels of KIT expression were detected in ~85% of SPINK1-positive PCa specimens. We show KIT signaling orchestrates SPINK1-mediated oncogenesis, and treatment with KIT inhibitor reduces tumor growth and metastases in preclinical mice models. Mechanistically, KIT signaling modulates WNT/beta-catenin pathway and confers stemness-related features in PCa. Notably, inhibiting KIT signaling led to restoration of AR/REST levels, forming a feedback loop enabling SPINK1 repression. Overall, we uncover the role of KIT signaling downstream of SPINK1 in maintaining lineage plasticity and provide distinct treatment modalities for advanced-stage SPINK1-positive patients.
PXD047302	38384936	Serum proteomic biomarker investigation of vascular depression using data-independent acquisition: a pilot study. 	Serum proteomic biomarker investigation of vascular depression using data-independent acquisition (DIA): a pilot study	biomarker, machine learning, vascular depression	Background: Vascular depression (VaD) is a depressive disorder closely associated with cerebrovascular disease and vascular risk factors. It remains underestimated owing to challenging diagnostics and limited information regarding the pathophysiological mechanisms of VaD. The purpose of this study was to analyze the proteomic signatures and identify the potential biomarkers with diagnostic significance in VaD. Methods: Deep profiling of the serum proteome of 35 patients with VaD and 36 controls was performed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Functional enrichment analysis of the quantified proteins was based on Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway, and Reactome databases. Machine learning algorithms were used to screen candidate proteins and develop a protein-based model to effectively distinguish patients with VaD. Results: There were 29 up-regulated and 31 down-regulated proteins in the VaD group compared to the controls (|log2FC| >= 0.26, p <= 0.05). Enrichment pathways analyses showed that neurobiological processes related to synaptic vesicle cycle and axon guidance may be dysregulated in VaD. Extrinsic component of synaptic vesicle membrane was the most enriched term in the cellular components (CC) terms. 19 candidate proteins were filtered for further modeling. A nomogram was developed with the combination of HECT domain E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 3 (HECTD3), Nidogen-2 (NID2), FTO alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase (FTO), Golgi membrane protein 1 (GOLM1), and N-acetylneuraminate lyase (NPL), which could be used to predict VaD risk with favorable efficacy. Conclusion: This study offers a comprehensive and integrated view of serum proteomics and contributes to a valuable proteomics-based diagnostic model for VaD.
PXD047360	38385114	Analysis of differentially expressed proteins in lymph fluids related to lymphatic metastasis in a breast cancer rabbit model guided by contrast-enhanced ultrasound. 	Proteomic data of rabbit lymphatic fluid	Breast cancer, Lymphatic fluid, Rabbit	The aim of the present study was to identify differentially expressed proteins in the lymph fluid of rabbits with breast cancer lymphatic metastasis compared with healthy rabbits and to analyze and verify these proteins using proteomics technologies. In the process of breast cancer metastasis, the composition of the lymph fluid will also change. Rabbits with breast cancer lymph node metastasis and normal rabbits were selected for analysis. Lymph fluid was extracted under the guidance of percutaneous contrast-enhanced ultrasound. Label-free quantitative proteomics was used to detect and compare differences between the rabbit cancer model and healthy rabbits and differential protein expression results were obtained. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology analysis software, selecting the most significantly differentially expressed proteins. Finally, parallel reaction monitoring technology was applied for validation. A total of 547 significantly differentially expressed proteins were found in the present study, which included 371 upregulated proteins and 176 downregulated proteins. The aforementioned genes were mainly involved in various cellular and metabolic pathways, including upregulated proteins, such as biliverdin reductase A and isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 and downregulated proteins, such as pyridoxal kinase. The upregulated proteins protein disulfide-isomerase 3, protein kinase cAMP-dependent type I regulatory subunit alpha and ATP-binding cassette sub-family C member 4 participated in immune regulation, endocrine regulation and anti-tumor drug resistance regulation, respectively. Compared with healthy rabbits, rabbits with breast cancer metastasis differentially expressed of a number of different proteins in their lymph, which participate in the pathophysiological process of tumor occurrence and metastasis. Through further research, these differential proteins can be used as predictive indicators of breast cancer metastasis and new therapeutic targets.
PXD038758	38387030	CD4+ T cells from individuals with type 1 diabetes respond to a novel class of deamidated peptides formed in pancreatic islets. 	Deamidation in human islets of Langerhans	islets of Langerhans, pancreas	The beta-cell plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes, in part through the posttranslational modification of self-proteins by biochemical processes such as deamidation. These neoantigens are potential triggers for breaking immune tolerance. We report the detection by LC-MS/MS of 16 novel Gln and 27 novel Asn deamidations in 14 disease-related proteins within inflammatory cytokine-stressed human islets of Langerhans. T-cell clones responsive against one Gln and three Asn deamidated peptides could be isolated from peripheral blood of individuals with type 1 diabetes. Ex vivo HLA class II tetramer staining detected higher T-cell frequencies in individuals with the disease compared to control individuals. Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between the frequencies of T cells specific for deamidated peptides, insulin antibody levels at diagnosis, and duration of disease. These results highlight that stressed human islets are prone to enzymatic and biochemical deamidation and suggest that both Gln and Asn deamidated peptides can promote the activation and expansion of autoreactive CD4+ T cells. These findings add to the growing evidence that post-translational modifications undermine tolerance and may open the road for the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic applications for individuals living with type 1 diabetes.
PXD045936	38387394	Sequential release of interacting proteins and Ub-modifying enzymes by disulfide heterotypic ubiquitin reagents. 	Sequential release of interacting proteins and Ub-modifying enzymes by disulfide heterotypic ubiquitin reagents	Ubiquitin, chain type, chemical proteomics	Heterotypic ubiquitin (Ub) chains have emerged as fundamental components in a wide range of cellular processes. The integrative identification of Ub-interacting proteins (readers) and Ub-modifying enzymes (writers and erasers) that selectively recognize and regulate heterotypic ubiquitination may provide crucial insights into these processes. In this study, we employed the bifunctional molecule-assisted (CAET) strategy to develop a type of disulfide bond-activated heterotypic Ub reagents, which allowed to enrich heterotypic Ub-interacting proteins and modifying enzymes simultaneously. The sequential release of readers which are non-covalently bound and writers or erasers which are covalently conjugated by using urea and reductant, respectively, combined with label-free quantitative (LFQ) MS indicated that these heterotypic Ub reagents would facilitate future investigations into functional roles played by heterotypic Ub chains.
PXD042014	38387774	Selective modulation of the human glucocorticoid receptor compromises GR chromatin occupancy and recruitment of p300/CBP and the Mediator complex. 	TurboID-based proxisome mapping of the human glucocorticoid receptor in A549 cells	Glucocorticoid receptor, TurboID, interactomics	Exogenous glucocorticoids are frequently used to treat inflammatory disorders and as adjuncts for the treatment of solid cancers. However, their use is associated with severe side effects and therapy resistance. Novel glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ligands with a patient-validated reduced side effect profile have not yet reached the clinic. GR is a member of the nuclear receptor family of transcription factors and heavily relies on interactions with coregulator proteins for its transcriptional activity. To elucidate the role of the GR interactome in the differential transcriptional activity of GR following treatment with the selective GR agonist and modulator (SEGRAM) Dagrocorat compared to classic (ant)agonists, we generated comprehensive interactome maps by high-confidence proximity proteomics in lung epithelial carcinoma cells. We found that Dagrocorat and the antagonist RU486 both reduced GR interaction with CREB-binding protein (CBP)/p300 and the Mediator complex compared to the full GR agonist Dexamethasone. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that these changes in GR interactome were accompanied by reduced GR chromatin occupancy with Dagrocorat and RU486. Our data offer new insights into the role of differential coregulator recruitment in shaping ligand-specific GR-mediated transcriptional responses.
PXD045925	38388156	Pronucleotide Probes Reveal a Diverging Specificity for AMPylation vs UMPylation of Human and Bacterial Nucleotide Transferases. 	Pronucleotide probes reveal a diverging specificity for AMPylation vs. UMPylation of human and bacterial nucleotide transferases	AMPylation, Infection, Pronucleotide, UMPylation, VopS	AMPylation is a post-translational modification utilized by human and bacterial cells to modulate the activity and function of specific proteins. Major AMPylators such as human FICD and bacterial VopS have been studied extensively for their substrate and target scope in vitro. Recently, an AMP pronucleotide probe also facilitated the in situ analysis of AMPylation in living cells. Based on this technology, we here introduce a novel UMP pronucleotide probe and utilize it to profile uninfected and Vibrio parahaemolyticus infected human cells. Mass spectrometric analysis of labeled protein targets reveals an unexpected promiscuity of human nucleotide transferases with an almost identical target set of AMP- and UMPylated proteins. Vice versa, studies in cells infected by V. parahaemolyticus and its effector VopS revealed solely AMPylation of host enzymes, highlighting a so far unknown specificity of this transferase for ATP. Taken together, pronucleotide probes provide an unprecedented insight into the in situ activity profile of crucial nucleotide transferases, which can largely differ from their in vitro activity.
PXD048476	38388461	Noncanonical function of folate through folate receptor 1 during neural tube formation. 	FOLR1-interacting proteins in neurulating Xenopus laevis embryos	FOLR1, Xenopus laevis, coimmunoprecipitation, neurulation	Folate supplementation reduces the occurrence of neural tube defects (NTDs), birth defects consisting in the failure of the neural tube to form and close. The mechanisms underlying NTDs and their prevention by folate remain unclear. Here we show that folate receptor 1 (FOLR1) is necessary for the formation of neural tube-like structures in human-cell derived neural organoids. FOLR1 knockdown in neural organoids and in Xenopus laevis embryos leads to NTDs that are rescued by pteroate, a folate precursor that is unable to participate in metabolism. We demonstrate that FOLR1 interacts with and opposes the function of CD2-associated protein, molecule essential for apical endocytosis and turnover of C-cadherin in neural plate cells. In addition, folates increase Ca(2+) transient frequency, suggesting that folate and FOLR1 signal intracellularly to regulate neural plate folding. This study identifies a mechanism of action of folate distinct from its vitamin function during neural tube formation.
PXD043379	38388551	Molecular mechanism underlying miR-204-5p regulation of adipose-derived stem cells differentiation into cells from three germ layers. 	Proteome dataset of goat adipose-derived stem cells (gADSCs)	adipose-derived stem cells, goat	The limited differentiation ability of adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) limits their application in stem cell therapy and regenerative medicine. Here, we explore the molecular mechanism by which miR-204-5p regulates ADSCs differentiation into cells derived from the three germ layers (i.e., adipocytes, neurocytes, and hepatocytes). Although miR-204-5p overexpression inhibited ADSCs differentiation into adipocytes, neurocyte and hepatocyte differentiation were promoted. Mechanistically, miR-204-5p inhibited the expression of PPARG by regulating the AMPK signaling pathway, thereby inhibiting ADSCs differentiation into adipocytes. Further, miR-204-5p regulated JAG1/NOTCH3 axis for the inhibition of differentiation into adipocytes and promotion of differentiation into neurocytes. miR-204-5p might also promote ADSCs differentiation into hepatocytes by upregulating E2F8. The findings of this study provide novel insights into the regulatory mechanisms underlying early embryonic development and will help to facilitate the application of ADSCs in stem cell therapy and regenerative medicine.
PXD024087	38389037	Kinome and phosphoproteome reprogramming underlies the aberrant immune responses in critically ill COVID-19 patients. 	Kinome and phosphoproteome reprogramming underlie the immunological abnormalities in severe COVID-19	B cell, CK2, COVID-19, IL-12, JAK-STAT, SARS-CoV-2, SYK, T cell, cytokine, immune regulation, immunoreceptor Tyr-based motifs, inhibitory receptor, kinase, natural killer cells, phosphoproteome, signal transduction	SARS-CoV-2 infection triggers extensive host immune reactions, leading to severe diseases in certain individuals. However, the molecular basis underlying the excessive yet non-productive immune responses in severe COVID-19 remains incompletely understood. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) proteome and phosphoproteome in sepsis patients positive or negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection, as well as healthy subjects, using quantitative mass spectrometry. Our findings demonstrate dynamic changes in the COVID-19 PBMC proteome and phosphoproteome during disease progression, with distinctive protein or phosphoprotein signatures capable of distinguishing longitudinal disease states. Furthermore, SARS-CoV-2 infection induces a global reprogramming of the kinome and phosphoproteome, resulting in defective adaptive immune response mediated by the B and T lymphocytes, compromised innate immune responses involving the SIGLEC and SLAM family of immunoreceptors, and excessive cytokine-JAK-STAT signaling. In addition to uncovering host proteome and phosphoproteome aberrations caused by SARS-CoV-2, our work recapitulates several reported therapeutic targets for COVID-19 and identified numerous new candidates, including the kinases PKG1, CK2, ROCK1/2, GRK2, SYK, JAK2/3, TYK2, DNA-PK, PKCdelta, and the cytokine IL-12.
PXD049189	38389090	Proteomic analysis of decellularized mice liver and kidney extracellular matrices. 	decellularized hepatic and renal tissue	matrisome decellularized kidney liver mice	BACKGROUND: The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a three-dimensional network of proteins that encases and supports cells within a tissue and promotes physiological and pathological cellular differentiation and functionality. Understanding the complex composition of the ECM is essential to decrypt physiological processes as well as pathogenesis. In this context, the method of decellularization is a useful technique to eliminate cellular components from tissues while preserving the majority of the structural and functional integrity of the ECM. RESULTS: In this study, we employed a bottom-up proteomic approach to elucidate the intricate network of proteins in the decellularized extracellular matrices of murine liver and kidney tissues. This approach involved the use of a novel, perfusion-based decellularization protocol to generate acellular whole organ scaffolds. Proteomic analysis of decellularized mice liver and kidney ECM scaffolds revealed tissue-specific differences in matrisome composition, while we found a predominantly stable composition of the core matrisome, consisting of collagens, glycoproteins, and proteoglycans. Liver matrisome analysis revealed unique proteins such as collagen type VI alpha-6, fibrillin-2 or biglycan. In the kidney, specific ECM-regulators such as cathepsin z were detected. CONCLUSION: The identification of distinct proteomic signatures provides insights into how different matrisome compositions might influence the biological properties of distinct tissues. This experimental workflow will help to further elucidate the proteomic landscape of decellularized extracellular matrix scaffolds of mice in order to decipher complex cell-matrix interactions and their contribution to a tissue-specific microenvironment.
PXD042227	38389096	A knock down strategy for rapid, generic, and versatile modelling of muscular dystrophies in 3D-tissue-engineered-skeletal muscle. 	One-line-fits-all: a knockdown strategy for rapid, generic and versatile modelling of muscular dystrophies in 3D-tissue-engineered-skeletal-muscle	3D-organ-on-a-chip, Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, LGMD2A, calpain-3, disease modelling, dystrophin, genetic knockdown, skeletal-muscle-on-a-chip, tissue engineering	BACKGROUND: Human iPSC-derived 3D-tissue-engineered-skeletal muscles (3D-TESMs) offer advanced technology for disease modelling. However, due to the inherent genetic heterogeneity among human individuals, it is often difficult to distinguish disease-related readouts from random variability. The generation of genetically matched isogenic controls using gene editing can reduce variability, but the generation of isogenic hiPSC-derived 3D-TESMs can take up to 6 months, thereby reducing throughput. METHODS: Here, by combining 3D-TESM and shRNA technologies, we developed a disease modelling strategy to induce distinct genetic deficiencies in a single hiPSC-derived myogenic progenitor cell line within 1 week. RESULTS: As proof of principle, we recapitulated disease-associated pathology of Duchenne muscular dystrophy and limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A caused by loss of function of DMD and CAPN3, respectively. shRNA-mediated knock down of DMD or CAPN3 induced a loss of contractile function, disruption of tissue architecture, and disease-specific proteomes. Pathology in DMD-deficient 3D-TESMs was partially rescued by a candidate gene therapy treatment using micro-dystrophin, with similar efficacy compared to animal models. CONCLUSIONS: These results show that isogenic shRNA-based humanized 3D-TESM models provide a fast, cheap, and efficient tool to model muscular dystrophies and are useful for the preclinical evaluation of novel therapies.
PXD046717	38390296	Extensive post-transcriptional regulation revealed by integrative transcriptome and proteome analyses in salicylic acid-induced flowering in duckweed (Lemna gibba). 	Proteome of duckweed under SA treatment	SA treatment, duckweed, flowering	Duckweed is an aquatic model plant with tremendous potential in industrial and agricultural applications. Duckweed rarely flowers which significantly hinders the resource collection and heterosis utilization. Salicylic acid (SA) can significantly induce duckweed to flower; however, the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this work, transcriptome and proteome were conducted in parallel to examine the expression change of genes and proteins in Lemna gibba under SA treatment. A high-quality reference transcriptome was generated using Iso-Seq strategy, yielding 42,281 full-length transcripts. A total of 422, 423, and 417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), as well as 213, 51, and 92 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), were identified at flower induction, flower initiation, and flowering stages by ssRNA-seq and iTRAQ methods. Most DEGs and DEPs were only regulated at either the transcriptomic or proteomic level. Additionally, DEPs exhibited low expression correlations with the corresponding mRNAs, suggesting that post-transcriptional regulation plays a pivotal role in SA-induced flowering in L. gibba. Specifically, the genes related to photosynthesis, stress, and hormone metabolism were mainly regulated at the mRNA level, those associated with mitochondrial electron transport / ATP synthesis, nucleotide synthesis, and secondary metabolism were regulated at the protein level, while those related to redox metabolism were regulated at the mRNA and/or protein levels. The post-transcriptional regulation of genes relevant to hormone synthesis, transcription factors, and flowering was also extensively analyzed and discussed. This is the first study of integrative transcriptomic and proteomic analyses in duckweed, providing novel insights of post-transcriptional regulation in SA-induced flowering of L. gibba.
PXD046918	38390827	Repeated Exposure Enhanced Toxicity of Clarithromycin on Microcystis aeruginosa Versus Single Exposure through Photosynthesis, Oxidative Stress, and Energy Metabolism Shift. 	Repeated Exposure Enhanced Toxicity of Clarithromycin on Microcystis aeruginosa versus Single Exposure through Photosynthesis, Oxidative Stress and Energy Metabolism shift	Clarithromycin, Ecological risk, Metabolomics, Microcystis aeruginosa, Repeated exposure	Antibiotics are being increasingly detected in aquatic environments, and their potential ecological risk is of great concern. However, most antibiotic toxicity studies involve single-exposure experiments. Herein, we studied the effects and mechanisms of repeated versus single clarithromycin (CLA) exposure on Microcystis aeruginosa. The 96 h effective concentration of CLA was 13.37 mug/L upon single exposure but it reduced to 6.90 mug/L upon repeated exposure. Single-exposure CLA inhibited algal photosynthesis by disrupting energy absorption, dissipation and trapping, reaction center activation, and electron transport, thereby inducing oxidative stress and ultrastructural damage. In addition, CLA upregulated glycolysis, pyruvate metabolism, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Repeated exposure caused stronger inhibition of algal growth via altering photosynthetic pigments, reaction center subunits biosynthesis, and electron transport, thereby inducing more substantial oxidative damage. Furthermore, repeated exposure reduced carbohydrate utilization by blocking the pentose phosphate pathway, consequently altering the characteristics of extracellular polymeric substances and eventually impairing the defense mechanisms of M. aeruginosa. Risk quotients calculated from repeated exposure were higher than 1, indicating significant ecological risks. This study elucidated the strong influence of repeated antibiotic exposure on algae, providing new insight into antibiotic risk assessment.
PXD048836	38390966	Observations from the Proteomics Bench. 	Observations from the proteomics bench - Quality Assessment / Experiment Reproducibility - PROETD2015	quality control, standard samples	Many challenges in proteomics result from the high-throughput nature of the experiments. This paper first presents pre-analytical problems, which still occur, although the call for standardization in omics has been ongoing for many years. This article also discusses aspects that affect bioinformatic analysis based on three sets of reference data measured with different orbitrap instruments. Despite continuous advances in mass spectrometer technology as well as analysis software, data-set-wise quality control is still necessary, and decoy-based estimation, although challenged by modern instruments, should be utilized. We draw attention to the fact that numerous young researchers perceive proteomics as a mature, readily applicable technology. However, it is important to emphasize that the maximum potential of the technology can only be realized by an educated handling of its limitations.
PXD047672	38391955	A Proteomic Investigation to Discover Candidate Proteins Involved in Novel Mechanisms of 5-Fluorouracil Resistance in Colorectal Cancer. 	Novel mechanisms of 5-Fluorouracil Resistance in Colorectal Cancer: A Proteomic Investigation	5-fluorouracil, colorectal cancer, drug resistance mechanisms, in vitro models, stable isotope labelling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)	One of the main obstacles to therapeutic success in colorectal cancer (CRC) is the development of acquired resistance to treatment with drugs such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Whilst some resistance mechanisms are well known, it is clear from the stasis in therapy success rate that much is still unknown. Here, a proteomics approach is taken towards identification of candidate proteins using 5-FU-resistant sublines of human CRC cell lines generated in house. Using a multiplexed stable isotope labelling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) strategy, 5-FU-resistant and equivalently passaged sensitive cell lines were compared to parent cell lines by growing in Heavy medium with 2D liquid chromatography and Orbitrap Fusion(TM) Tribrid(TM) Mass Spectrometry analysis. Among 3003 commonly quantified proteins, six (CD44, APP, NAGLU, CORO7, AGR2, PLSCR1) were found up-regulated, and six (VPS45, RBMS2, RIOK1, RAP1GDS1, POLR3D, CD55) down-regulated. A total of 11 of the 12 proteins have a known association with drug resistance mechanisms or role in CRC oncogenesis. Validation through immunodetection techniques confirmed high expression of CD44 and CD63, two known drug resistance mediators with elevated proteomics expression results. The information revealed by the sensitivity of this method warrants it as an important tool for elaborating the complexity of acquired drug resistance in CRC.
PXD046872	38393161	Venom Composition of Neglected Bothropoid Snakes from the Amazon Rainforest: Ecological and Toxinological Implications. 	The still puzzling role of venom composition in snake adaptation to different environments and foraging	transcriptome, venom variability	Snake venoms have evolved in several families of Caenophidae, and their toxins have been assumed to be biochemical weapons with a role as a trophic adaptation. However, it remains unclear how venom contributes to the success of venomous species for adaptation to different environments. Here we compared the venoms from Bothrocophias hyoprora, Bothrops taeniatus, Bothrops bilineatus smaragdinus, Bothrops brazili, and Bothrops atrox collected in the Amazon Rainforest, aiming to understand the ecological and toxinological consequences of venom composition. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses indicated that the venoms presented the same toxin groups characteristic from bothropoids, but with distinct isoforms with variable qualitative and quantitative abundances, contributing to distinct enzymatic and toxic effects. Despite the particularities of each venom, commercial Bothrops antivenom recognized the venom components and neutralized the lethality of all species. No clear features could be observed between venoms from arboreal and terrestrial habitats, nor in the dispersion of the species throughout the Amazon habitats, supporting the notion that venom composition may not shape the ecological or toxinological characteristics of these snake species and that other factors influence their foraging or dispersal in different ecological niches.
PXD044762	38394330	Porcine circovirus type 2 infection promotes the SUMOylation of nucleophosmin-1 to facilitate the viral circular single-stranded DNA replication. 	The SUMOylated proteins interact with the DNA of porcine circovirus type 2	DNA, SUMOylation, interacting	The mechanism of genome DNA replication in circular single-stranded DNA viruses is currently a mystery, except for the fact that it undergoes rolling-circle replication. Herein, we identified SUMOylated porcine nucleophosmin-1 (pNPM1), which is previously reported to be an interacting protein of the viral capsid protein, as a key regulator that promotes the genome DNA replication of porcine single-stranded DNA circovirus. Upon porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) infection, SUMO2/3 were recruited and conjugated with the K263 site of pNPM1's C-terminal domain to SUMOylate pNPM1, subsequently, the SUMOylated pNPM1 were translocated in nucleoli to promote the replication of PCV2 genome DNA. The mutation of the K263 site reduced the SUMOylation levels of pNPM1 and the nucleolar localization of pNPM1, resulting in a decrease in the level of PCV2 DNA replication. Meanwhile, the mutation of the K263 site prevented the interaction of pNPM1 with PCV2 DNA, but not the interaction of pNPM1 with PCV2 Cap. Mechanistically, PCV2 infection increased the expression levels of Ubc9, the only E2 enzyme involved in SUMOylation, through the Cap-mediated activation of ERK signaling. The upregulation of Ubc9 promoted the interaction between pNPM1 and TRIM24, a potential E3 ligase for SUMOylation, thereby facilitating the SUMOylation of pNPM1. The inhibition of ERK activation could significantly reduce the SUMOylation levels and the nucleolar localization of pNPM1, as well as the PCV2 DNA replication levels. These results provide new insights into the mechanism of circular single-stranded DNA virus replication and highlight NPM1 as a potential target for inhibiting PCV2 replication.
PXD046815	38394376	Proteomics-Based Identification of Potential Therapeutic Targets of Artesunate in a Lupus Nephritis MRL/lpr Mouse Model. 	Proteomics-based identification of potential therapeutic targets of artesunate in a lupus nephritis MRL/lpr mouse model	Artesunate, Lupus nephritis, TMT-based quantitative proteomics	This study aimed to identify potential therapeutic targets of artesunate in an MRL/lpr lupus nephritis mouse model by quantitative proteomics. We detected serum autoimmune markers and proteinuria in 40 female mice that were divided into 4 groups (n = 10): normal C57BL/6 control group; untreated MRL/lpr lupus; 9 mg/kg/day prednisone positive control MRL/lpr lupus; and 15 mg/kg/day artesunate-treated MRL/lpr lupus groups. Renal pathology in the untreated MRL/lpr lupus and artesunate groups was examined by Periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining. Artesunate treatment in lupus mice decreased serum autoantibody levels and proteinuria while alleviating lupus nephritis pathology. Through tandem mass tag-tandem mass spectrometry (TMT-MS/MS) analyses, differentially expressed proteins were identified in the artesunate group, and subsequent functional prediction suggested associations with antigen presentation, apoptosis, and immune regulation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD046815. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis of the top 19 selected proteins confirmed the TMT-MS/MS results. Immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and Western blotting of an enriched protein from PRM analysis, cathepsin S, linked to antigen presentation, highlighted its upregulation in the untreated MRL/lpr lupus group and downregulation following artesunate treatment. This study suggests that artesunate holds potential as a therapeutic agent for lupus nephritis, with cathepsin S identified as a potential target.
PXD048584	38396113	Protective effects of Pt-N-C single-atom nanozymes against myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury. 	Protective Effects of Pt-N-C Nanozymes against Myocardial Ischemia-reperfusion Injury	apoptosis, ischemia/reperfusion injury, reactive oxygen species, single-atom nanozymes	Effective therapeutic strategies for myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury remain elusive. Targeting reactive oxygen species (ROS) provides a practical approach to mitigate myocardial damage following reperfusion. In this study, we synthesize an antioxidant nanozyme, equipped with a single-Platinum (Pt)-atom (PtsaN-C), for protecting against I/R injury. PtsaN-C exhibits multiple enzyme-mimicking activities for ROS scavenging with high efficiency and stability. Mechanistic studies demonstrate that the excellent ROS-elimination performance of the single Pt atom center precedes that of the Pt cluster center, owing to its better synergistic effect and metallic electronic property. Systematic in vitro and in vivo studies confirm that PtsaN-C efficiently counteracts ROS, restores cellular homeostasis and prevents apoptotic progression after I/R injury. PtsaN-C also demonstrates good biocompatibility, making it a promising candidate for clinical applications. Our study expands the scope of single-atom nanozyme in combating ROS-induced damage and offers a promising therapeutic avenue for the treatment of I/R injury.
PXD049461	38396823	Multi-Omics Approaches for Liver Reveal the Thromboprophylaxis Mechanism of Aspirin Eugenol Ester in Rat Thrombosis Model. 	Multi-omics approaches for liver reveal the antithrombotic mechanism of aspirin eugenol ester in rat thrombosis model		Aspirin eugenol ester (AEE) is a novel medicinal compound synthesized by esterifying aspirin with eugenol using the pro-drug principle. Pharmacological and pharmacodynamic experiments showed that AEE had excellent thromboprophylaxis and inhibition of platelet aggregation. This study aimed to investigate the effect of AEE on the liver of thrombosed rats to reveal its mechanism of thromboprophylaxis. Therefore, a multi-omics approach was used to analyze the liver. Transcriptome results showed 132 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the AEE group compared to the model group. Proteome results showed that 159 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the AEE group compared to the model group. Six proteins including fibrinogen alpha chain (Fga), fibrinogen gamma chain (Fgg), fibrinogen beta chain (Fgb), orosomucoid 1 (Orm1), hemopexin (Hpx), and kininogen-2 (Kng2) were selected for parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis. The results showed that the expression of all six proteins was upregulated in the model group compared with the control group. In turn, AEE reversed the upregulation trend of these proteins to some degree. Metabolome results showed that 17 metabolites were upregulated and 38 were downregulated in the model group compared to the control group. AEE could reverse the expression of these metabolites to some degree and make them back to normal levels. The metabolites were mainly involved in metabolic pathways, including linoleic acid metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Comprehensive analyses showed that AEE could prevent thrombosis by inhibiting platelet activation, decreasing inflammation, and regulating amino acid and energy metabolism. In conclusion, AEE can have a positive effect on thrombosis-related diseases.
PXD047962	38396833	Pleiotropic Effects of PhaR Regulator in Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens Microaerobic Metabolism. 	Pleiotropic effects of PhaR regulator in Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens microaerobic metabolism	Rhizobia, microoxia, polyhydroxybutyrate, protein-DNA interaction, transcriptomics	Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens can live inside soybean root nodules and in free-living conditions. In both states, when oxygen levels decrease, cells adjust their protein pools by gene transcription modulation. PhaR is a transcription factor involved in polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) metabolism but also plays a role in the microaerobic network of this bacterium. To deeply uncover the function of PhaR, we applied a multipronged approach, including the expression profile of a phaR mutant at the transcriptional and protein levels under microaerobic conditions, and the identification of direct targets and of proteins associated with PHA granules. Our results confirmed a pleiotropic function of PhaR, affecting several phenotypes, in addition to PHA cycle control. These include growth deficiency, regulation of carbon and nitrogen allocation, and bacterial motility. Interestingly, PhaR may also modulate the microoxic-responsive regulatory network by activating the expression of fixK2 and repressing nifA, both encoding two transcription factors relevant for microaerobic regulation. At the molecular level, two PhaR-binding motifs were predicted and direct control mediated by PhaR determined by protein-interaction assays revealed seven new direct targets for PhaR. Finally, among the proteins associated with PHA granules, we found PhaR, phasins, and other proteins, confirming a dual function of PhaR in microoxia.
PXD046909	38397397	Proteomic and Metabolomic Analysis of the Quercus ilex-Phytophthora cinnamomi Pathosystem Reveals a Population-Specific Response, Independent of Co-Occurrence of Drought. 	Proteomic and Metabolomic study of the Quercus ilex response to Phytophthora cinnamomi, the main causal agent of the decline syndrome, and the identification of putative markers of resistance	Quercus ilex, climate change, decline syndrome, markers of resilience, metabolomics	Holm oak (Quercus ilex) is considered to be one of the major structural elements of Mediterranean forests and the agrosilvopastoral Spanish "dehesa", making it an outstanding example of ecological and socioeconomic sustainability in forest ecosystems. The exotic Phytophthora cinnamomi is one of the most aggressive pathogens of woody species and, together with drought, is considered to be one of the main drivers of holm oak decline. The effect of and response to P. cinnamomi inoculation were studied in the offspring of mother trees from two Andalusian populations, Cordoba and Huelva. At the two locations, acorns collected from both symptomatic (damaged) and asymptomatic (apparently healthy) trees were sampled. Damage symptoms, mortality, and chlorophyll fluorescence were evaluated in seedlings inoculated under humid and drought conditions. The effect and response depended on the population and were more apparent in Huelva than in Cordoba. An integrated proteomic and metabolomic analysis revealed the involvement of different metabolic pathways in response to the pathogen in both populations, including amino acid metabolism pathways in Huelva, and terpenoid and flavonoid biosynthesis in Cordoba. However, no differential response was observed between seedlings inoculated under humid and drought conditions. A protective mechanism of the photosynthetic apparatus was activated in response to defective photosynthetic activity in inoculated plants, which seemed to be more efficient in the Cordoba population. In addition, enzymes and metabolites of the phenylpropanoid and flavonoid biosynthesis pathways may have conferred higher resistance in the Cordoba population. Some enzymes are proposed as markers of resilience, among which glyoxalase I, glutathione reductase, thioredoxin reductase, and cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase are candidates.
PXD048640	38397478	CLPP-Null Eukaryotes with Excess Heme Biosynthesis Show Reduced L-arginine Levels, Probably via CLPX-Mediated OAT Activation. 	Proteome of WT and CLPP-null Podospora Anserina	CLPP, Perrault Syndrome, Posospora Anserina	The serine peptidase CLPP is conserved among bacteria, chloroplasts, and mitochondria. In humans and mice, its loss causes Perrault syndrome, which presents with growth deficits, infertility, deafness, and ataxia. In the filamentous fungus Podospora anserina, CLPP loss leads to longevity. CLPP substrates are selected by CLPX, an AAA+ unfoldase. CLPX is known to target delta-aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALAS) to promote pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) binding. CLPX may also influence cofactor association with other enzymes. Here, the evaluation of P. anserina metabolomics highlighted a reduction in arginine/histidine levels. In Mus musculus cerebellum, reductions in arginine/histidine and citrulline occurred with a concomitant accumulation of the heme precursor protoporphyrin IX. This suggests that the increased biosynthesis of 5-carbon (C5) chain deltaALA consumes not only C4 succinyl-CoA and C1 glycine but also specific C5 delta amino acids. As enzymes responsible for these effects, the elevated abundance of CLPX and ALAS is paralleled by increased OAT (PLP-dependent, ornithine delta-aminotransferase) levels. Possibly as a consequence of altered C1 metabolism, the proteome profiles of P. anserina CLPP-null cells showed strong accumulation of a methyltransferase and two mitoribosomal large subunit factors. The reduced histidine levels may explain the previously observed metal interaction problems. As the main nitrogen-storing metabolite, a deficiency in arginine would affect the urea cycle and polyamine synthesis. Supplementation of arginine and histidine might rescue the growth deficits of CLPP-mutant patients.
PXD048206	38397502	Effects of Quality Enhancement of Frozen Tuna Fillets Using Ultrasound-Assisted Salting: Physicochemical Properties, Histology, and Proteomics. 	4D label-free proteomics data of yellowfin tuna	frozen storage, salt, ultrasound, yellowfin tuna	Salting pretreatment is an effective method to improve the quality of frozen fish. This study investigated the quality changes and proteomic profile differences of frozen yellowfin tuna fillets pretreated with ultrasound-assisted salting (UAS) and static salting (SS). This study was centered on three aspects: physicochemical indicators' determination, histological observation, and proteomic analysis. The results showed that UAS significantly increased yield, salt content, and water-holding capacity (WHC), decreased total volatile base nitrogen (TVBN) compared to SS (p < 0.05), and significantly increased water in the protein matrix within myofibrils. Histological observations showed that the tissue cells in the UAS group were less affected by frozen damage, with a more swollen structure and rougher surface of myofibrils observed. Furthermore, 4D label-free proteomics revealed 56 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in UAS vs. NT comparison, mainly structural proteins, metabolic enzymes, proteasomes, and their subunits, which are associated with metabolic pathways such as calcium signaling pathway, gap junction, actin cytoskeletal regulation, and necroptosis, which are intimately associated with quality changes in freeze-stored tuna fillets. In brief, UAS enhances the potential for the application of salting pretreatment to improve frozen meat quality, and 4D label-free proteomics provides knowledge to reveal the potential links between quality and molecular changes in processed frozen meat to optimize future UAS meat processing.
PXD043046	38400697	Deep quantitative proteomics of North American Pacific coast star tunicate (Botryllus schlosseri). 	Deep quantitative proteomics of North American Pacific coast star tunicate	DIA, LCMS, ecological proteomics, evolutionary proteomics, network analysis, protein quantitation, tunicates	Botryllus schlosseri, is a model marine invertebrate for studying immunity, regeneration, and stress-induced evolution. Conditions for validating its predicted proteome were optimized using nanoElute(R) 2 deep-coverage LCMS, revealing up to 4930 protein groups and 20,984 unique peptides per sample. Spectral libraries were generated and filtered to remove interferences, low-quality transitions, and only retain proteins with >3 unique peptides. The resulting DIA assay library enabled label-free quantitation of 3426 protein groups represented by 22,593 unique peptides. Quantitative comparisons of single systems from a laboratory-raised with two field-collected populations revealed (1) a more unique proteome in the laboratory-raised population, and (2) proteins with high/low individual variabilities in each population. DNA repair/replication, ion transport, and intracellular signaling processes were distinct in laboratory-cultured colonies. Spliceosome and Wnt signaling proteins were the least variable (highly functionally constrained) in all populations. In conclusion, we present the first colonial tunicate's deep quantitative proteome analysis, identifying functional protein clusters associated with laboratory conditions, different habitats, and strong versus relaxed abundance constraints. These results empower research on B. schlosseri with proteomics resources and enable quantitative molecular phenotyping of changes associated with transfer from in situ to ex situ and from in vivo to in vitro culture conditions.
PXD043653	38401391	Relevance of flounder caging and proteomics to explore the impact of a major industrial accident caused by fire on the Seine estuarine water quality. 	Proteomic analysis of livers from the European flounder Platichthys flesus from Seine estuary, following the fire of the Lubrizol and NL-Logistique plants.	animal, estuary, fish, pollution, river, sentinel, stress, toxicants	On September 26th 2019, a major fire occurred in the Lubrizol factory located near the Seine estuary, in Rouen-France. Juvenile flounders were captured in the Canche estuary (a reference system) and caged one month in the Canche and in the Seine downstream the accident site. No significant increases of PAHs, PCBs and PFAS was detected in Seine vs Canche sediments after the accident, but a significant increase of dioxins and furans was observed in water and sewage sludge in the Rouen wastewater treatment plant. The proteomics approach highlighted a dysregulation of proteins associated with cholesterol synthesis and lipid metabolism, in fish caged in the Seine. The overall results suggested that the fire produced air borne dioxins and furans that got deposited on soil and subsequently entered in the Seine estuarine waters via runoff; thus contaminating fish preys and caged flounders in the Seine estuary.
PXD043080	38401592	Comparative proteomic analysis of seed germination between allotetraploid cotton Gossypium hirsutum and Gossypium barbadense. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of seed germination between allotetraploid cottons Gossypium hirsutum and Gossypium barbadense	Gossypium, allopolyploid, seed germination	Seed germination, a key initial event in the plant life cycle, directly affects cotton yield and quality. Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium hirsutum gradually evolved through polyploidization, resulting in different characteristics, and this interspecific variation lacks genetic and molecular explanation. This work aimed to compare the proteomes between G. barbadense and G. hirsutum during seed germination. Here, we identified 2740 proteins for G. barbadense and 3758 for G. hirsutum. In the initial state, proteins in two cotton involved similar bioprocess, such as sugar metabolism, DNA repairing, and ABA signaling pathway. However, in the post-germination stage, G. hirsutum expressed more protein related to redox homeostasis, peroxidase activity, and pathogen interactions. Analyzing the different expression patterns of 915 single-copy orthogroups between the two kinds of cotton indicated that most of the differentially expressed proteins in G. barbadense were related to carbon metabolism. In contrast, most proteins in G. hirsutum were associated with stress response. Besides that, by proteogenomic analysis, we found 349 putative non-canonical peptides, which may be involved in plant development. These results will help to understand the different characteristics of these two kinds of cotton, such as fiber quality, yield, and adaptability. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Cotton is the predominant natural fiber crop worldwide; Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium hirsutum have evolved through polyploidization to produce differing traits. However, given their specific features, the divergence of mechanisms underlying seed germination between G. hirsutum and G. barbadense has not been discussed. Here, we explore what protein contributes to interspecific differences between G. barbadense and G. hirsutum during the seed germination period. This study helps to elucidate the evolution and domestication history of cotton polyploids and may allow breeders to understand their domestication history better and improve fiber quality and adaptability.
PXD046441	38402394	Proteomic insights into the pathophysiology of hypertension-associated albuminuria: Pilot study in a South African cohort. 	ARK Study Urinary Proteome Hypertension	Hypertension, Urine	BACKGROUND: Hypertension is an important public health priority with a high prevalence in Africa. It is also an independent risk factor for kidney outcomes. We aimed to identify potential proteins and pathways involved in hypertension-associated albuminuria by assessing urinary proteomic profiles in black South African participants with combined hypertension and albuminuria compared to those who have neither condition. METHODS: The study included 24 South African cases with both hypertension and albuminuria and 49 control participants who had neither condition. Protein was extracted from urine samples and analysed using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry. Data were generated using data-independent acquisition (DIA) and processed using Spectronaut(TM) 15. Statistical and functional data annotation were performed on Perseus and Cytoscape to identify and annotate differentially abundant proteins. Machine learning was applied to the dataset using the OmicLearn platform. RESULTS: Overall, a mean of 1,225 and 915 proteins were quantified in the control and case groups, respectively. Three hundred and thirty-two differentially abundant proteins were constructed into a network. Pathways associated with these differentially abundant proteins included the immune system (q-value [false discovery rate] = 1.4 x 10(- 45)), innate immune system (q = 1.1 x 10(- 32)), extracellular matrix (ECM) organisation (q = 0.03) and activation of matrix metalloproteinases (q = 0.04). Proteins with high disease scores (76-100% confidence) for both hypertension and chronic kidney disease included angiotensinogen (AGT), albumin (ALB), apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1), and uromodulin (UMOD). A machine learning approach was able to identify a set of 20 proteins, differentiating between cases and controls. CONCLUSIONS: The urinary proteomic data combined with the machine learning approach was able to classify disease status and identify proteins and pathways associated with hypertension-associated albuminuria.
PXD047157	38402623	SEPN1-related myopathy depends on the oxidoreductase ERO1A and is druggable with the chemical chaperone TUDCA. 	SEPN1-related myopathy depends on the oxidoreductase ERO1 alpha and is druggable with the chemical chaperone TUDCA	ER stress, ERO1, SEPN1, TUDCA, core myopathy, multi mini-core disease	Selenoprotein N (SEPN1) is a protein of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) whose inherited defects originate SEPN1-related myopathy (SEPN1-RM). Here, we identify an interaction between SEPN1 and the ER-stress-induced oxidoreductase ERO1A. SEPN1 and ERO1A, both enriched in mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs), are involved in the redox regulation of proteins. ERO1A depletion in SEPN1 knockout cells restores ER redox, re-equilibrates short-range MAMs, and rescues mitochondrial bioenergetics. ERO1A knockout in a mouse background of SEPN1 loss blunts ER stress and improves multiple MAM functions, including Ca(2+) levels and bioenergetics, thus reversing diaphragmatic weakness. The treatment of SEPN1 knockout mice with the ER stress inhibitor tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) mirrors the results of ERO1A loss. Importantly, muscle biopsies from patients with SEPN1-RM exhibit ERO1A overexpression, and TUDCA-treated SEPN1-RM patient-derived primary myoblasts show improvement in bioenergetics. These findings point to ERO1A as a biomarker and a viable target for intervention and to TUDCA as a pharmacological treatment for SEPN1-RM.
PXD047531	38402912	Gene-environment interaction elicits dystonia-like features and impaired translational regulation in a DYT-TOR1A mouse model. 	Gene-environment interaction elicits dystonia-like features and impaired translational regulation in a DYT-TOR1A mouse model	DYT-TOR1A, multi-omic, second-hit hypothesis	DYT-TOR1A dystonia is the most common monogenic dystonia characterized by involuntary muscle contractions and lack of therapeutic options. Despite some insights into its etiology, the disease's pathophysiology remains unclear. The reduced penetrance of about 30% suggests that extragenetic factors are needed to develop a dystonic phenotype. In order to systematically investigate this hypothesis, we induced a sciatic nerve crush injury in a genetically predisposed DYT-TOR1A mouse model (DYT1KI) to evoke a dystonic phenotype. Subsequently, we employed a multi-omic approach to uncover novel pathophysiological pathways that might be responsible for this condition. Using an unbiased deep-learning-based characterization of the dystonic phenotype showed that nerve-injured DYT1KI animals exhibited significantly more dystonia-like movements (DLM) compared to naive DYT1KI animals. This finding was noticeable as early as two weeks following the surgical procedure. Furthermore, nerve-injured DYT1KI mice displayed significantly more DLM than nerve-injured wildtype (wt) animals starting at 6 weeks post injury. In the cerebellum of nerve-injured wt mice, multi-omic analysis pointed towards regulation in translation related processes. These observations were not made in the cerebellum of nerve-injured DYT1KI mice; instead, they were localized to the cortex and striatum. Our findings indicate a failed translational compensatory mechanisms in the cerebellum of phenotypic DYT1KI mice that exhibit DLM, while translation dysregulations in the cortex and striatum likely promotes the dystonic phenotype.
PXD044452	38404380	A strategy to disentangle direct and indirect effects on (de)phosphorylation by chemical modulators of the phosphatase PP1 in complex cellular contexts. 	A strategy to disentangle direct and indirect effects on (de)phosphorylation by chemical modulators of the phosphatase PP1 in complex cellular contexts	Protein phosphatase-1, enzyme activators, enzyme inhibitors, mode of action, phosphoproteomics	Chemical activators and inhibitors are useful probes to identify substrates and downstream effects of enzymes; however, due to the complex signaling environment within cells, it is challenging to distinguish between direct and indirect effects. This is particularly the case for phosphorylation, where a single (de)phosphorylation event can trigger rapid changes in many other phosphorylation sites. An additional complication arises when a single catalytic entity, which acts in the form of many different holoenzymes with different substrates, is activated or inhibited, as it is unclear which holoenzymes are affected, and in turn which of their substrates are (de)phosphorylated. Direct target engaging MS-based technologies to study targets of drugs do not address these challenges. Here, we tackle this by studying the modulation of protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) activity by PP1-disrupting peptides (PDPs), as well as their selectivity toward PP1, by using a combination of mass spectrometry-based experiments. By combining cellular treatment with the PDP with in vitro dephosphorylation by the enzyme, we identify high confidence substrate candidates and begin to separate direct and indirect effects. Together with experiments analyzing which holoenzymes are particularly susceptible to this treatment, we obtain insights into the effect of the modulator on the complex network of protein (de)phosphorylation. This strategy holds promise for enhancing our understanding of PP1 in particular and, due to the broad applicability of the workflow and the MS-based read-out, of chemical modulators with complex mode of action in general.
PXD044872	38405732	Feed-forward stimulation of CAMK2 by the oncogenic pseudokinase PEAK1 generates a therapeutically 'actionable' signalling axis in triple negative breast cancer. 	Feed-forward stimulation of CAMK2 by the oncogenic pseudokinase PEAK1 generates an actionable' signalling axis in triple negative breast cancer	BiCAP, HEK293T, MS, dimerization, interactome	The PEAK family of pseudokinases, comprising PEAK1-3, are signalling scaffolds that play oncogenic roles in several poor prognosis human cancers, including triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, therapeutic targeting of pseudokinases is challenging due to their lack of catalytic activity. To address this, we screened for PEAK1 effectors by affinity purification and mass spectrometry, identifying calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 2 (CAMK2)D and CAMK2G. PEAK1 promoted CAMK2D/G activation in TNBC cells via a novel feed-forward mechanism involving PEAK1/PLCgamma1/Ca (2+) signalling and direct binding via a consensus CAMK2 interaction motif in the PEAK1 N-terminus. In turn, CAMK2 phosphorylated PEAK1 to enhance association with PEAK2, which is critical for PEAK1 oncogenic signalling. To achieve pharmacologic targeting of PEAK1/CAMK2, we repurposed RA306, a second generation CAMK2 inhibitor under pre-clinical development for treatment of cardiovascular disease. RA306 demonstrated on-target activity against CAMK2 in TNBC cells and inhibited PEAK1-enhanced migration and invasion in vitro . Moreover, RA306 significantly attenuated TNBC xenograft growth and blocked metastasis in a manner mirrored by CRISPR-mediated PEAK1 ablation. Overall, these studies establish PEAK1 as a critical cell signalling nexus, identify a novel mechanism for regulation of Ca (2+) signalling and its integration with tyrosine kinase signals, and identify CAMK2 as a therapeutically 'actionable' target downstream of PEAK1.
PXD044051	38406279	Proteomic study on nintedanib in gastric cancer cells. 	Proteomic study of nintedanib in gastric cancer cells	differential protein, gastric cancer, nintedanib	Background: Gastric cancer is a very common gastrointestinal tumor with a high mortality rate. Nintedanib has been shown to significantly reduce tumor cell proliferation and increase apoptosis in gastric cancer cells in vitro. However, its systemic action mechanism on gastric cancer cells remains unclear. A high-throughput proteomic approach should help identify the potential mechanisms and targets of nintedanib on gastric cancer cells. Methods: The effects of nintedanib on the biological behavior of gastric cancer cells were evaluated. A cytotoxic proliferation assay was performed to estimate the half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50). AGS cells were divided into control, and nintedanib-treated groups (5 microM, 48 h), and differential protein expression was investigated using tandem mass tags (TMT) proteomics. The molecular mechanisms of these differentially expressed proteins and their network interactions were then analyzed using bioinformatics, and potential nintedanib targets were identified. Results: This study identified 845 differentially expressed proteins in the nintedanib-treated group (compared to the control group), comprising 526 up-regulated and 319 down-regulated proteins. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the differentially expressed proteins were primarily enriched in biological pathways for branched-chain amino acid metabolism, steroid biosynthesis, propionate metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, lysosome, peroxisome, and ferroptosis. Key driver analysis revealed that proteins, such as enoyl-CoA hydratase and 3-hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase (EHHADH), isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1), acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1), acyl-CoA oxidase 2 (ACOX2), acyl-CoA oxidase 3 (ACOX3), and acetyl-CoA acyltransferase 1 (ACAA1) could be linked with nintedanib action. Conclusion: Nintedanib inhibits the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of gastric cancer cells. The crossover pathways and protein networks predicted by proteomics should provide more detailed molecular information enabling the use of nintedanib against gastric cancer.
PXD048576	38407022	Quantified Metabolomics and Lipidomics Profiles Reveal Serum Metabolic Alterations and Distinguished Metabolites of Seven Chronic Metabolic Diseases. 	Quantified metabolomics and lipidomics profiles reveal serum metabolic alterations and distinguished metabolites of seven chronic metabolic diseases	chronic metabolic disease, distinguished metabolites, quantitative analysis	The co-occurrence of multiple chronic metabolic diseases is highly prevalent, posing a huge health threat. Clarifying the metabolic associations between them, as well as identifying metabolites which allow discrimination between diseases, will provide new biological insights into their co-occurrence. Herein, we utilized targeted serum metabolomics and lipidomics covering over 700 metabolites to characterize metabolic alterations and associations related to seven chronic metabolic diseases (obesity, hypertension, hyperuricemia, hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, fatty liver) from 1626 participants. We identified 454 metabolites were shared among at least two chronic metabolic diseases, accounting for 73.3% of all 619 significant metabolite-disease associations. We found amino acids, lactic acid, 2-hydroxybutyric acid, triacylglycerols (TGs), and diacylglycerols (DGs) showed connectivity across multiple chronic metabolic diseases. Many carnitines were specifically associated with hyperuricemia. The hypercholesterolemia group showed obvious lipid metabolism disorder. Using logistic regression models, we further identified distinguished metabolites of seven chronic metabolic diseases, which exhibited satisfactory area under curve (AUC) values ranging from 0.848 to 1 in discovery and validation sets. Overall, quantitative metabolome and lipidome data sets revealed widespread and interconnected metabolic disorders among seven chronic metabolic diseases. The distinguished metabolites are useful for diagnosing chronic metabolic diseases and provide a reference value for further clinical intervention and management based on metabolomics strategy.
PXD046592	38407600	Characterization and immunological effect of outer membrane vesicles from Pasteurella multocida on macrophages. 	Qualitative proteomic identification of outer membrane vesicles of Pasteurella multocida	Pasteurella multocida, Rabbit	Pasteurella multocida is an important bacterial pathogen that can cause diseases in both animals and humans. Its elevated morbidity and mortality rates in animals result in substantial economic repercussions within the livestock industry. The prevention of diseases caused by P. multocida through immunization is impeded by the absence of a safe and effective vaccine. Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) secreted from the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria are spherical vesicular structures that encompass an array of periplasmic components in conjunction with a diverse assortment of lipids and proteins. These vesicles can induce antibacterial immune responses within the host. P. multocida has been shown to produce OMVs. Nonetheless, the precise characteristics and immunomodulatory functions of P. multocida OMVs have not been fully elucidated. In this study, OMVs were isolated from P. multocida using an ultrafiltration concentration technique, and their morphology, protein constitution, and immunomodulatory properties in RAW264.7 cells were studied. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) revealed that the OMVs exhibited typical spherical and bilayered lipid vesicular architecture, exhibiting an average diameter of approximately 147.5 nm. The yield of OMVs was 2.6 x 10(11) particles/mL. Proteomic analysis revealed a high abundance of membrane-associated proteins within P. multocida OMVs, with the capability to instigate the host's immune response. Furthermore, OMVs stimulated the proliferation and cellular uptake of macrophages and triggered the secretion of cytokines, such as TNF-a, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, and TGF-beta1. Consequently, our results indicated that OMVs from P. multocida could directly interact with macrophages and regulate their immune function in vitro. These results supported the prospective applicability of P. multocida OMVs as a platform in the context of vaccine development. KEY POINTS: * Preparation and characterization of P. multocida OMVs. * P. multocida OMVs possess a range of antigens and lipoproteins associated with the activation of the immune system. * P. multocida OMVs can activate the proliferation, internalization, and cytokine secretion of macrophages in vitro.
PXD038319	38408251	Extracellular vesicle formation in Euryarchaeota is driven by a small GTPase. 	Protein composition of extracellular vesicles isolated from Haloferax volcanii	Extracellular vesicles, haloarchaea	Since their discovery, extracellular vesicles (EVs) have changed our view on how organisms interact with their extracellular world. EVs are able to traffic a diverse array of molecules across different species and even domains, facilitating numerous functions. In this study, we investigate EV production in Euryarchaeota, using the model organism Haloferax volcanii. We uncover that EVs enclose RNA, with specific transcripts preferentially enriched, including those with regulatory potential, and conclude that EVs can act as an RNA communication system between haloarchaea. We demonstrate the key role of an EV-associated small GTPase for EV formation in H. volcanii that is also present across other diverse evolutionary branches of Archaea. We propose the name, ArvA, for the identified family of archaeal vesiculating GTPases. Additionally, we show that two genes in the same operon with arvA (arvB and arvC) are also involved in EV formation. Both, arvB and arvC, are closely associated with arvA in the majority of other archaea encoding ArvA. Our work demonstrates that small GTPases involved in membrane deformation and vesiculation, ubiquitous in Eukaryotes, are also present in Archaea and are widely distributed across diverse archaeal phyla.
PXD048647	38410100	Proteomic and metabolomic signatures of rectal tumor discriminate patients with different responses to preoperative radiotherapy. 	Proteomic and metabolomic signatures of rectal tumor discriminate patients with different responses to preoperative radiotherapy	metabolomics, radiotherapy, rectal cancer, tissue	Background: Neoadjuvant radiotherapy (neo-RT) is widely used in locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) as a component of radical treatment. Despite the advantages of neo-RT, which typically improves outcomes in LARC patients, the lack of reliable biomarkers that predict response and monitor the efficacy of therapy, can result in the application of unnecessary aggressive therapy affecting patients' quality of life. Hence, the search for molecular biomarkers for assessing the radio responsiveness of this cancer represents a relevant issue. Methods: Here, we combined proteomic and metabolomic approaches to identify molecular signatures, which could discriminate LARC tumors with good and poor responses to neo-RT. Results: The integration of data on differentially accumulated proteins and metabolites made it possible to identify disrupted metabolic pathways and signaling processes connected with response to irradiation, including ketone bodies synthesis and degradation, purine metabolism, energy metabolism, degradation of fatty acid, amino acid metabolism, and focal adhesion. Moreover, we proposed multi-component panels of proteins and metabolites which could serve as a solid base to develop biomarkers for monitoring and predicting the efficacy of preoperative RT in rectal cancer patients. Conclusion: We proved that an integrated multi-omic approach presents a valid look at the analysis of the global response to cancer treatment from the perspective of metabolomic reprogramming.
PXD043825	38410113	Exploration of potential biomarkers for early bladder cancer based on urine proteomics. 	Exploration of potential biomarkers for early bladder cancer based on urine proteomics	biomarker, bladder cancer, urine	Background: Bladder cancer is a common malignant tumor of the urinary system. The progression of the condition is associated with a poor prognosis, so it is necessary to identify new biomarkers to improve the diagnostic rate of bladder cancer. Methods: In this study, 338 urine samples (144 bladder cancer, 123 healthy control, 32 cystitis, and 39 upper urinary tract cancer samples) were collected, among which 238 samples (discovery group) were analyzed by LC-MS. The urinary proteome characteristics of each group were compared with those of bladder cancer, and the differential proteins were defined by bioinformatics analysis. The pathways and functional enrichments were annotated. The selected proteins with the highest AUC score were used to construct a diagnostic panel. One hundred samples (validation group) were used to test the effect of the panel by ELISA. Results: Compared with the healthy control, cystitis and upper urinary tract cancer samples, the number of differential proteins in the bladder cancer samples was 325, 158 and 473, respectively. The differentially expressed proteins were mainly related to lipid metabolism and iron metabolism and were involved in the proliferation, metabolism and necrosis of bladder cancer cells. The AUC of the panel of APOL1 and ITIH3 was 0.96 in the discovery group. ELISA detection showed an AUC of 0.92 in the validation group. Conclusion: This study showed that urinary proteins can reflect the pathophysiological changes in bladder cancer and that important molecules can be used as biomarkers for bladder cancer screening. These findings will benefit the application of the urine proteome in clinical research.
PXD040520	38411078	The Caenorhabditis elegans proteome response to two protective Pseudomonas symbionts. 	The proteomic response of C. elegans to two protective Pseudomonas symbionts	C. elegans, Host-Symbiont interactions, Microbiota	The Caenorhabditis elegans natural microbiota isolates Pseudomonas lurida MYb11 and Pseudomonas fluorescens MYb115 protect the host against pathogens through distinct mechanisms. While P. lurida produces an antimicrobial compound and directly inhibits pathogen growth, P. fluorescens MYb115 protects the host without affecting pathogen growth. It is unknown how these two protective microbes affect host biological processes. We used a proteomics approach to elucidate the C. elegans response to MYb11 and MYb115. We found that both Pseudomonas isolates increase vitellogenin protein production in young adults, which confirms previous findings on the effect of microbiota on C. elegans reproductive timing. Moreover, the C. elegans responses to MYb11 and MYb115 exhibit common signatures with the response to other vitamin B12-producing bacteria, emphasizing the importance of vitamin B12 in C. elegans-microbe metabolic interactions. We further analyzed signatures in the C. elegans response specific to MYb11 or MYb115. We provide evidence for distinct modifications in lipid metabolism by both symbiotic microbes. We could identify the activation of host-pathogen defense responses as an MYb11-specific proteome signature and provide evidence that the intermediate filament protein IFB-2 is required for MYb115-mediated protection. These results indicate that MYb11 not only produces an antimicrobial compound but also activates host antimicrobial defenses, which together might increase resistance to infection. In contrast, MYb115 affects host processes such as lipid metabolism and cytoskeleton dynamics, which might increase host tolerance to infection. Overall, this study pinpoints proteins of interest that form the basis for additional exploration into the mechanisms underlying C. elegans microbiota-mediated protection from pathogen infection and other microbiota-mediated traits.IMPORTANCESymbiotic bacteria can defend their host against pathogen infection. While some protective symbionts directly interact with pathogenic bacteria, other protective symbionts elicit a response in the host that improves its own pathogen defenses. To better understand how a host responds to protective symbionts, we examined which host proteins are affected by two protective Pseudomonas bacteria in the model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We found that the C. elegans response to its protective symbionts is manifold, which was reflected in changes in proteins that are involved in metabolism, the immune system, and cell structure. This study provides a foundation for exploring the contribution of the host response to symbiont-mediated protection from pathogen infection.
PXD042378	38412044	Filamin B restricts vaccinia virus spread and is targeted by vaccinia virus protein C4. 	Identification of new binding partners for the vaccinia virus protein C4	Vaccinia virus, virus-host interactions	Vaccinia virus (VACV) is a large DNA virus that encodes scores of proteins that modulate the host immune response. VACV protein C4 is one such immunomodulator known to inhibit the activation of both the NF-kappaB signaling cascade and the DNA-PK-mediated DNA sensing pathway. Here, we show that the N-terminal region of C4, which neither inhibits NF-kappaB nor mediates interaction with DNA-PK, still contributes to virus virulence. Furthermore, this domain interacts directly and with high affinity to the C-terminal domain of filamin B (FLNB). FLNB is a large actin-binding protein that stabilizes the F-actin network and is implicated in other cellular processes. Deletion of FLNB from cells results in larger VACV plaques and increased infectious viral yield, indicating that FLNB restricts VACV spread. These data demonstrate that C4 has a new function that contributes to virulence and engages the cytoskeleton. Furthermore, we show that the cytoskeleton performs further previously uncharacterized functions during VACV infection.IMPORTANCEVaccinia virus (VACV), the vaccine against smallpox and monkeypox, encodes many proteins to counteract the host immune response. Investigating these proteins provides insights into viral immune evasion mechanisms and thereby indicates how to engineer safer and more immunogenic VACV-based vaccines. Here, we report that the N-terminal domain of VACV protein C4 interacts directly with the cytoskeletal protein filamin B (FLNB), and this domain of C4 contributes to virus virulence. Furthermore, VACV replicates and spreads better in cells lacking FLNB, thus demonstrating that FLNB has antiviral activity. VACV utilizes the cytoskeleton for movement within and between cells; however, previous studies show no involvement of C4 in VACV replication or spread. Thus, C4 associates with FLNB for a different reason, suggesting that the cytoskeleton has further uncharacterized roles during virus infection.
PXD047159	38412784	Prefrontal cortical synaptoproteome profile combined with machine learning predicts resilience towards chronic social isolation in rats. 	Prefrontal cortical synaptoproteome profile combined with machine learning  predict resilience towards chronic social isolation in rats	Chronic social isolation, Machine learning, Prefrontal cortex, Resilience, Synaptosome	Chronic social isolation (CSIS) of rats serves as an animal model of depression and generates CSIS-resilient and CSIS-susceptible phenotypes. We aimed to investigate the prefrontal cortical synaptoproteome profile of CSIS-resilient, CSIS-susceptible, and control rats to delineate biochemical pathways and predictive biomarker proteins characteristic for the resilient phenotype. A sucrose preference test was performed to distinguish rat phenotypes. Class separation and machine learning (ML) algorithms support vector machine with greedy forward search and random forest were then used for discriminating CSIS-resilient from CSIS-susceptible and control rats. CSIS-resilient compared to CSIS-susceptible rat proteome analysis revealed, among other proteins, downregulated glycolysis intermediate fructose-bisphosphate aldolase C (Aldoc), and upregulated clathrin heavy chain 1 (Cltc), calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II (Cam2a), synaptophysin (Syp) and fatty acid synthase (Fasn) that are involved in neuronal transmission, synaptic vesicular trafficking, and fatty acid synthesis. Comparison of CSIS-resilient and control rats identified downregulated mitochondrial proteins ATP synthase subunit beta (Atp5f1b) and citrate synthase (Cs), and upregulated protein kinase C gamma type (Prkcg), vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (Slc17a7), and synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2 A (Sv2a) involved in signal transduction and synaptic trafficking. The combined protein differences make the rat groups linearly separable, and 100% validation accuracy is achieved by standard ML models. ML algorithms resulted in four panels of discriminative proteins. Proteomics-data-driven class separation and ML algorithms can provide a platform for accessing predictive features and insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic neurotransmission involved in stress resilience.
PXD040000	38413589	TopBP1 utilises a bipartite GINS binding mode to support genome replication. 	Confirmation of replication interactome of TopBP1 using proximity-dependent biotinylation MS	TopBP1, proximity-dependent biotinylation	Activation of the replicative Mcm2-7 helicase by loading GINS and Cdc45 is crucial for replication origin firing, and as such for faithful genetic inheritance. Our biochemical and structural studies demonstrate that the helicase activator GINS interacts with TopBP1 through two separate binding surfaces, the first involving a stretch of highly conserved amino acids in the TopBP1-GINI region, the second a surface on TopBP1-BRCT4. The two surfaces bind to opposite ends of the A domain of the GINS subunit Psf1. Mutation analysis reveals that either surface is individually able to support TopBP1-GINS interaction, albeit with reduced affinity. Consistently, either surface is sufficient for replication origin firing in Xenopus egg extracts and becomes essential in the absence of the other. The TopBP1-GINS interaction appears sterically incompatible with simultaneous binding of DNA polymerase epsilon (Polepsilon) to GINS when bound to Mcm2-7-Cdc45, although TopBP1-BRCT4 and the Polepsilon subunit PolE2 show only partial competitivity in binding to Psf1. Our TopBP1-GINS model improves the understanding of the recently characterised metazoan pre-loading complex. It further predicts the coordination of three molecular origin firing processes, DNA polymerase epsilon arrival, TopBP1 ejection and GINS integration into Mcm2-7-Cdc45.
PXD040801	38413626	TBC1D23 mediates Golgi-specific LKB1 signaling. 	TBC1D23 mediates Golgi-specific LKB1 signaling	Golgi, LKB1 signaling, TBC1D23	Liver kinase B1 (LKB1), an evolutionarily conserved serine/threonine kinase, is a master regulator of the AMPK subfamily and controls cellular events such as polarity, proliferation, and energy homeostasis. Functions and mechanisms of the LKB1-AMPK axis at specific subcellular compartments, such as lysosome and mitochondria, have been established. AMPK is known to be activated at the Golgi; however, functions and regulatory mechanisms of the LKB1-AMPK axis at the Golgi apparatus remain elusive. Here, we show that TBC1D23, a Golgi-localized protein that is frequently mutated in the neurodevelopment disorder pontocerebellar hypoplasia (PCH), is specifically required for the LKB1 signaling at the Golgi. TBC1D23 directly interacts with LKB1 and recruits LKB1 to Golgi, promoting Golgi-specific activation of AMPK upon energy stress. Notably, Golgi-targeted expression of LKB1 rescues TBC1D23 deficiency in zebrafish models. Furthermore, the loss of LKB1 causes neurodevelopmental abnormalities in zebrafish, which partially recapitulates defects in TBC1D23-deficient zebrafish, and LKB1 sustains normal neuronal development via TBC1D23 interaction. Our study uncovers a regulatory mechanism of the LKB1 signaling, and reveals that a disrupted Golgi-LKB1 signaling underlies the pathogenesis of PCH.
PXD045628	38413819	Unveiling molecular mechanisms of pepper resistance to Phytophthora capsici through grafting using iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis. 	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis of grafting to improve pepper resistance to Phytophthora capsici	Graft, Phytophthora capsici, differentially expressed proteins, iTRAQ	Phytophthora blight severely threatens global pepper production. Grafting bolsters plant disease resistance, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we used P. capsici-resistant strain 'ZCM334' and susceptible strain 'Early Calwonder' for grafting. Compared to self-rooted 'Early Calwonder' plants, 'ZCM334' grafts exhibited delayed disease onset, elevated resistance, and reduced leaf cell damage, showcasing the potential of grafting in enhancing pepper resistance to P. capsici. Proteomic analysis via the iTRAQ technology unveiled 478 and 349 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the leaves and roots, respectively, between the grafts and self-rooted plants. These DEPs were linked to metabolism and cellular processes, stimulus responses, and catalytic activity and were significantly enriched in the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, carbon fixation in photosynthetic organizations, and pyruvate metabolism pathways. Twelve DEPs exhibiting consistent expression trends in both leaves and roots, including seven related to P. capsici resistance, were screened. qRT-PCR analysis confirmed a significant correlation between the protein and transcript levels of DEPs after P. capsici inoculation. This study highlights the molecular mechanisms whereby grafting enhances pepper resistance to Phytophthora blight. Identification of key genes provides a foundation for studying the regulatory network governing the resistance of pepper to P. capsici.
PXD048880	38414005	Decoding of the surfaceome and endocytome in primary glioblastoma cells identifies potential target antigens in the hypoxic tumor niche. 	Decoding of the surfaceome and endocytome in primary glioblastoma cells identifies potential target antigens in the hypoxic tumor nicheDecoding of the surfaceome and endocytome in primary glioblastoma cells identifies potential target antigens in the hypo	Immunotherapy, glioblastoma, hypoxia., tumor antigens	Immunotherapies with antibody-drug-conjugates (ADC) and CAR-T cells, targeted at tumor surface antigens (surfaceome), currently revolutionize clinical oncology. However, target identification warrants a better understanding of the surfaceome and how it is modulated by the tumor microenvironment. Here, we decode the surfaceome and endocytome and its remodeling by hypoxic stress in glioblastoma (GBM), the most common and aggressive brain tumor in adults. We employed a comprehensive approach for global and dynamic profiling of the surfaceome and endocytosed (endocytome) proteins and their regulation by hypoxia in patient-derived GBM cultures. We found a heterogeneous surface-endocytome profile and a divergent response to hypoxia across GBM cultures. We provide a quantitative ranking of more than 600 surface resident and endocytosed proteins, and their regulation by hypoxia, serving as a resource to the cancer research community. As proof-of-concept, the established target antigen CD44 was identified as a commonly and abundantly expressed surface protein with high endocytic activity. Among hypoxia induced proteins, we reveal CXADR, CD47, CD81, BSG, and FXYD6 as potential targets of the stressed GBM niche. We could validate these findings by immunofluorescence analyses in patient tumors and by increased expression in the hypoxic core of GBM spheroids. Selected candidates were finally confronted by treatment studies, showing their high capacity for internalization and ADC delivery. Importantly, we highlight the limited correlation between transcriptomics and proteomics, emphasizing the critical role of membrane protein enrichment strategies and quantitative mass spectrometry. Our findings provide a comprehensive understanding of the surface-endocytome and its remodeling by hypoxia in GBM as a resource for exploration of targets for immunotherapeutic approaches in GBM.
PXD047921	38415010	Transcriptome and proteomic analysis of mpox virus F3L-expressing cells. 	The proteins interacting with MPXV-F3L protein identified by LC-MS	F3L, LC-MS, Monkeypox virus	Background: Monkeypox or mpox virus (mpox) is a double-stranded DNA virus that poses a significant threat to global public health security. The F3 protein, encoded by mpox, is an apoenzyme believed to possess a double-stranded RNA-binding domain (dsRBD). However, limited research has been conducted on its function. In this study, we present data on the transcriptomics and proteomics of F3L-transfected HEK293T cells, aiming to enhance our comprehension of F3L. Methods: The gene expression profiles of pCAGGS-HA-F3L transfected HEK293T cells were analyzed using RNA-seq. Proteomics was used to identify and study proteins that interact with F3L. Real-time PCR was used to detect mRNA levels of several differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in HEK293T cells (or Vero cells) after the expression of F3 protein. Results: A total of 14,822 genes were obtained in cells by RNA-Seq and 1,672 DEGs were identified, including 1,156 up-regulated genes and 516 down-regulated genes. A total of 27 cellular proteins interacting with F3 proteins were identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and 19 cellular proteins with large differences in abundance ratios were considered to be candidate cellular proteins. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses showed that the DEGs were significantly enriched in immune-related pathways, including type I interferon signaling pathway, response to virus, RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathway, NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, etc. Moreover, some selected DEGs were further confirmed by real-time PCR and the results were consistent with the transcriptome data. Proteomics data show that cellular proteins interacting with F3 proteins are mainly related to RNA splicing and protein translation. Conclusions: Our analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic data showed that (1) F3L up-regulates the transcript levels of key genes in the innate immune signaling pathway, such as RIGI, MDA5, IRF5, IRF7, IRF9, ISG15, IFNA14, and elicits a broad spectrum of antiviral immune responses in the host. F3L also increases the expression of the FOS and JNK genes while decreasing the expression of TNFR2, these factors may ultimately induce apoptosis. (2) F3 protein interacts with host proteins involved in RNA splicing and protein translation, such as SNRNP70, POLR2H, HNRNPA1, DDX17, etc. The findings of this study shed light on the function of the F3 protein.
PXD047908	38415248	SOCS1 expression in cancer cells: potential roles in promoting antitumor immunity. 	The tumor suppressor SOCS1 diminishes tolerance to oxidative stress in hepatocellular carcinoma	Hepatocellular carcinoma, SOCS1, cisplatin, oxidative stress, tert-butyl hydroperoxide	Suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1) is a potent regulator immune cell responses and a proven tumor suppressor. Inhibition of SOCS1 in T cells can boost antitumor immunity, whereas its loss in tumor cells increases tumor aggressivity. Investigations into the tumor suppression mechanisms so far focused on tumor cell-intrinsic functions of SOCS1. However, it is possible that SOCS1 expression in tumor cells also regulate antitumor immune responses in a cell-extrinsic manner via direct and indirect mechanisms. Here, we discuss the evidence supporting the latter, and its implications for antitumor immunity.
PXD047737	38415394	Milk proteomic analysis reveals differentially expressed proteins in high-yielding and low-yielding Guanzhong dairy goats at peak lactation. 	TMT proteomic analysis of milk of Guanzhong dairy goat	Guanzhong dairy goat, differential protein, goat milk	The aim of this experiment was to investigate the differential proteomic characteristics of milk from high- and low-yielding Guanzhong dairy goats during the peak lactation period under the same feeding conditions. Nine Guanzhong dairy goats with high yield (H: 3.5 +/- 0.17 kg/d) and nine with low yield (L:1.2 +/- 0.25 kg/d) were selected for milk proteomic analysis using tandem mass tag technology. A total of 78 differentially expressed proteins were identified. Compared with L, 50 proteins including HK3, HSPB1 and ANXA2 were significantly upregulated in H milk, while 28 proteins including LALBA and XDH were significantly downregulated. Bioinformatics analysis of the differentially expressed proteins showed that galactose metabolism, purine metabolism, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, MAPK signaling pathway, regulation of actin cytoskeleton and other pathways were closely related to milk yield. HK3, HSPB1, ANXA2, LALBA and XDH were important candidate proteins associated with the milk production characteristics of Guanzhong dairy goats. Our data provide relevant biomarkers and a theoretical basis for improving milk production in Guanzhong dairy goats.
PXD039911	38415603	In-depth analysis of the treatment effect and synergistic mechanism of TanReQing injection on clinical multi-drug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	In-depth proteomic analyzing the activated effect and sensitized mechanism of clinical multi-drug resistant of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by TanReQing injection	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, TanReQing injection, clinical Multidrug-resistant, sensitized mechanism	Antibiotic resistance is a recognized and concerning public health issue. Gram-negative bacilli, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa), are notorious for their rapid development of drug resistance, leading to treatment failures. TanReQing injection (TRQ) was chosen to explore its pharmacological mechanisms against clinical multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa (MDR-PA), given its antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. We revealed the expression of proteins and genes in P. aeruginosa after co-culture with TRQ. This study developed an assessment method to evaluate clinical resistance of P. aeruginosa using MALDI-TOF MS identification and Biotyper database searching techniques. Additionally, it combined MIC determination to investigate changes in MDR-PA treated by TRQ. TRQ effectively reduced the MICs of ceftazidime and cefoperazone and enhanced the confidence scores of MDR-PA as identified by mass spectrometry. Using this evaluation method, the fingerprints of standard P. aeruginosa and MDR-PA were compared, and the characteristic peptide sequence (Seq-PA No. 1) associated with flagellum was found. The phenotypic experiments were conducted to confirm the effect of TRQ on the motility and adhesion of P. aeruginosa. A combination of co-immunoprecipitation and proteome analysis was employed, and 16 proteins were significantly differentially expressed and identified as potential candidates for investigating the mechanism of inhibiting resistance in P. aeruginosa treated by TRQ. The candidates were verified by quantitative real-time PCR analysis, and TRQ may affect these core proteins (MexA, MexB, OprM, OprF, OTCase, IDH, and ASL) that influence resistance of P. aeruginosa. The combination of multiple methods helps elucidate the synergistic mechanism of TRQ in overcoming resistance of P. aeruginosa.IMPORTANCEPseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen closely associated with various life-threatening acute and chronic infections. The presence of antimicrobial resistance and multidrug resistance in P. aeruginosa infections significantly complicates antibiotic treatment. The expression of beta-lactamase, efflux systems such as MexAB-OprM, and outer membrane permeability are considered to have the greatest impact on the sensitivity of P. aeruginosa. The study used a method to assess the clinical resistance of P. aeruginosa using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry identification and Biotyper database search techniques. TanReQing injection (TRQ) effectively reduced the MICs of ceftazidime and cefoperazone in multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa (MDR-PA) and improved the confidence scores for co-cultured MDR-PA. The study found a characteristic peptide sequence for distinguishing whether P. aeruginosa is resistant. Through co-immunoprecipitation and proteome analysis, we explored the mechanism of TRQ overcoming resistance of P. aeruginosa.
PXD031056	38416638	Atypical cofilin signaling drives dendritic cell migration through the extracellular matrix via nuclear deformation. 	Inflammatory Activation Drives Re-Sculpting and Shear-Thinning of the Dendritic Cell Nucleus	Dendritic cells	To mount an adaptive immune response, dendritic cells must migrate to lymph nodes to present antigens to T cells. Critical to 3D migration is the nucleus, which is the size-limiting barrier for migration through the extracellular matrix. Here, we show that inflammatory activation of dendritic cells leads to the nucleus becoming spherically deformed and enables dendritic cells to overcome the typical 2- to 3-mum diameter limit for 3D migration through gaps in the extracellular matrix. We show that the nuclear shape change is partially attained through reduced cell adhesion, whereas improved 3D migration is achieved through reprogramming of the actin cytoskeleton. Specifically, our data point to a model whereby the phosphorylation of cofilin-1 at serine 41 drives the assembly of a cofilin-actomyosin ring proximal to the nucleus and enhances migration through 3D collagen gels. In summary, these data describe signaling events through which dendritic cells deform their nucleus and enhance their migratory capacity.
PXD047765	38416681	Tom20 gates PINK1 activity and mediates its tethering of the TOM and TIM23 translocases upon mitochondrial stress. 	Tom20 gates PINK1 activity and mediates its tethering of the TOM and TIM23 translocases upon mitochondrial stress	PINK1, Parkinsons, TIM complex, TOM complex, mitochondria	Mutations in PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) cause autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). PINK1 is a Ser/Thr kinase that regulates mitochondrial quality control by triggering mitophagy mediated by the ubiquitin (Ub) ligase Parkin. Upon mitochondrial damage, PINK1 accumulates on the outer mitochondrial membrane forming a high-molecular-weight complex with the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM). PINK1 then phosphorylates Ub, which enables recruitment and activation of Parkin followed by autophagic clearance of the damaged mitochondrion. Thus, Parkin-dependent mitophagy hinges on the stable accumulation of PINK1 on the TOM complex. Yet, the mechanism linking mitochondrial stressors to PINK1 accumulation and whether the translocases of the inner membrane (TIMs) are also involved remain unclear. Herein, we demonstrate that mitochondrial stress induces the formation of a PINK1-TOM-TIM23 supercomplex in human cultured cell lines, dopamine neurons, and midbrain organoids. Moreover, we show that PINK1 is required to stably tether the TOM to TIM23 complexes in response to stress such that the supercomplex fails to accumulate in cells lacking PINK1. This tethering is dependent on an interaction between the PINK1 N-terminal-C-terminal extension module and the cytosolic domain of the Tom20 subunit of the TOM complex, the disruption of which, by either designer or PD-associated PINK1 mutations, inhibits downstream mitophagy. Together, the findings provide key insight into how PINK1 interfaces with the mitochondrial import machinery, with important implications for the mechanisms of mitochondrial quality control and PD pathogenesis.
PXD047845	38416819	An unusual dual sugar-binding lectin domain controls the substrate specificity of a mucin-type O-glycosyltransferase. 	An unusual dual sugar-binding lectin domain controls the substrate specificity of a mucin-type O-glycosyltransferase	MUC1, O-glycosylation, lectin domain, structure, substrate specificity	N-acetylgalactosaminyl-transferases (GalNAc-Ts) initiate mucin-type O-glycosylation, an abundant and complex posttranslational modification that regulates host-microbe interactions, tissue development, and metabolism. GalNAc-Ts contain a lectin domain consisting of three homologous repeats (alpha, beta, and gamma), where alpha and beta can potentially interact with O-GalNAc on substrates to enhance activity toward a nearby acceptor Thr/Ser. The ubiquitous isoenzyme GalNAc-T1 modulates heart development, immunity, and SARS-CoV-2 infectivity, but its substrates are largely unknown. Here, we show that both alpha and beta in GalNAc-T1 uniquely orchestrate the O-glycosylation of various glycopeptide substrates. The alpha repeat directs O-glycosylation to acceptor sites carboxyl-terminal to an existing GalNAc, while the beta repeat directs O-glycosylation to amino-terminal sites. In addition, GalNAc-T1 incorporates alpha and beta into various substrate binding modes to cooperatively increase the specificity toward an acceptor site located between two existing O-glycans. Our studies highlight a unique mechanism by which dual lectin repeats expand substrate specificity and provide crucial information for identifying the biological substrates of GalNAc-T1.
PXD046651	38417052	Pilot Evaluation of the Long-Term Reproducibility of Capillary Zone Electrophoresis-Tandem Mass Spectrometry for Top-Down Proteomics of a Complex Proteome Sample. 	Pilot evaluation of long-term reproducibility of capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry for top-down proteomics of a complex proteome sample	Capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem MS (CZE-MS/MS), Yeast proteome, capillary cleanup, long-term reproducibility, top-down proteomics (TDP)	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based top-down proteomics (TDP) has revolutionized biological research by measuring intact proteoforms in cells, tissues, and biofluids. Capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem MS (CZE-MS/MS) is a valuable technique for TDP, offering a high peak capacity and sensitivity for proteoform separation and detection. However, the long-term reproducibility of CZE-MS/MS in TDP remains unstudied, which is a crucial aspect for large-scale studies. This work investigated the long-term qualitative and quantitative reproducibility of CZE-MS/MS for TDP for the first time, focusing on a yeast cell lysate. Over 1000 proteoforms were identified per run across 62 runs using one linear polyacrylamide (LPA)-coated separation capillary, highlighting the robustness of the CZE-MS/MS technique. However, substantial decreases in proteoform intensity and identification were observed after some initial runs due to proteoform adsorption onto the capillary inner wall. To address this issue, we developed an efficient capillary cleanup procedure using diluted ammonium hydroxide, achieving high qualitative and quantitative reproducibility for the yeast sample across at least 23 runs. The data underscore the capability of CZE-MS/MS for large-scale quantitative TDP of complex samples, signaling its readiness for deployment in broad biological applications. The MS RAW files were deposited in ProteomeXchange Consortium with the data set identifier of PXD046651.
PXD023380	38417116	Deep-sea in situ and laboratory multi-omics provide insights into the sulfur assimilation of a deep-sea Chloroflexota bacterium. 	Cultivation and characterization of a novel clade of deep-sea Chloroflexi: providing a glimpse of Chloroflexi involved in sulfur cycling	Chloroflexi, deep sea, marine subsurface, multiple omics, sulfur cycle	Chloroflexota bacteria are abundant and globally distributed in various deep-sea ecosystems. It has been reported based on metagenomics data that two deep-sea Chloroflexota lineages (the SAR202 group and Dehalococcoidia class) have the potential to drive sulfur cycling. However, the absence of cultured Chloroflexota representatives is a significant bottleneck toward understanding their contribution to the deep-sea sulfur cycling. In this study, we find that Phototrophicus methaneseepsis ZRK33 isolated from deep-sea sediment has a heterotrophic lifestyle and can assimilate sulfate and thiosulfate. Using combined physiological, genomic, proteomic, and in situ transcriptomic methods, we find that strain ZRK33 can perform assimilatory sulfate reduction in both laboratory and deep-sea conditions. Metabolism of sulfate or thiosulfate by strain ZRK33 significantly promotes the transport and degradation of various macromolecules and thereby stimulates the energy production. In addition, metagenomic results show that genes associated with assimilatory and dissimilatory sulfate reduction are ubiquitously distributed in the metagenome-assembled genomes of Chloroflexota members derived from deep-sea sediments. Metatranscriptomic results also show that the expression levels of related genes are upregulated, strongly suggesting that Chloroflexota bacteria may play undocumented roles in deep-sea sulfur cycling. IMPORTANCE: The cycling of sulfur is one of Earth's major biogeochemical processes and is closely related to the energy metabolism of microorganisms living in the deep-sea cold seep and hydrothermal vents. To date, some of the members of Chloroflexota are proposed to play a previously unrecognized role in sulfur cycling. However, the sulfur metabolic characteristics of deep-sea Chloroflexota bacteria have never been reported, and remain to be verified in cultured deep-sea representatives. Here, we show that the deep-sea Chloroflexota bacterium ZRK33 can perform sulfate assimilation in both laboratory and deep-sea conditions, which expands our knowledge of the sulfur metabolic potential of deep-sea Chloroflexota bacteria. We also show that the genes associated with assimilatory and dissimilatory sulfate reduction ubiquitously distribute in the deep-sea Chloroflexota members, providing hints to the roles of Chloroflexota bacteria in deep-sea sulfur biogeochemical cycling.
PXD038810	38418561	Integrative temporal multi-omics reveals uncoupling of transcriptome and proteome during human T cell activation. 	Integrative proteomics and transcriptomics of human T-cells reveals temporal changes in metabolic pathways following TCR-mediated activation	CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, DDA proteomics, Human T cell activation	Engagement of the T cell receptor (TCR) triggers molecular reprogramming leading to the acquisition of specialized effector functions by CD4 helper and CD8 cytotoxic T cells. While transcription factors, chemokines, and cytokines are known drivers in this process, the temporal proteomic and transcriptomic changes that regulate different stages of human primary T cell activation remain to be elucidated. Here, we report an integrative temporal proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of primary human CD4 and CD8 T cells following ex vivo stimulation with anti-CD3/CD28 beads, which revealed major transcriptome-proteome uncoupling. The early activation phase in both CD4 and CD8 T cells was associated with transient downregulation of the mRNA transcripts and protein of the central glucose transport GLUT1. In the proliferation phase, CD4 and CD8 T cells became transcriptionally more divergent while their proteome became more similar. In addition to the kinetics of proteome-transcriptome correlation, this study unveils selective transcriptional and translational metabolic reprogramming governing CD4 and CD8 T cell responses to TCR stimulation. This temporal transcriptome/proteome map of human T cell activation provides a reference map exploitable for future discovery of biomarkers and candidates targeting T cell responses.
PXD048857	38420594	YAP-mediated GPER signaling impedes proliferation and survival of prostate epithelium in benign prostatic hyperplasia. 	iTRAQ-based LC-MS/MS analysis of benign prostatic hyperplasia prostate tissues with different stroma/epithelium ratio	Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), Proliferation-apoptosis balance., Prostate epithelial cell, Prostate stromal cell	Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) occurs when there is an imbalance between the proliferation and death of prostate cells, which is regulated tightly by estrogen signaling. However, the role of G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) in prostate cell survival remains ambiguous. In this study, we observed that prostates with epithelial hyperplasia showed increased yes-associated protein 1 (YAP) expression and decreased levels of estrogen and GPER. Blocking YAP through genetic or drug interventions led to reduced proliferation and increased apoptosis in the prostate epithelial cells. Interestingly, GPER agonists produced similar effects. GPER activation enhanced the phosphorylation and degradation of YAP, which was crucial for suppressing cell proliferation and survival. The Galphas/cAMP/PKA/LATS pathway, downstream of GPER, transmitted signals that facilitated YAP inhibition. This study investigated the interaction between GPER and YAP in the prostate epithelial cells and its contribution to BPH development. It lays the groundwork for future research on developing BPH treatments.
PXD048360	38423451	Elucidating the pivotal role of TSPO in porphyrin-related cellular processes, in Bacillus cereus. 	Molecular changes in the proteome of Bacillus cereus cells upon mutation of the tspO gene.	gram-positive bacteria, metabolism, mutation, porphyrins, tryptophan	A structural homolog of the mammalian TSPO has been identified in the human pathogen Bacillus cereus. BcTSPO, in its recombinant form, has previously been shown to bind and degrade porphyrins. In this study, we generated a DeltatspO mutant strain in B. cereus ATCC 14579 and assessed the impact of the absence of BcTSPO on cellular proteomics and physiological characteristics. The proteomic analysis revealed correlations between the lack of BcTSPO and the observed growth defects, increased oxygen consumption, ATP deficiency, heightened tryptophan catabolism, reduced motility, and impaired biofilm formation in the DeltatspO mutant strain. Our results also suggested that BcTSPO plays a crucial role in regulating intracellular levels of metabolites from the coproporphyrin-dependent branch of the heme biosynthetic pathway. This regulation potentially underlies alterations in the metabolic landscape, emphasizing the pivotal role of BcTSPO in B. cereus aerobic metabolism. Notably, our study unveils, for the first time, the involvement of TSPO in tryptophan metabolism. These findings underscore the multifaceted role of TSPO, not only in metabolic pathways but also potentially in the microorganism's virulence mechanisms.
PXD037479	38424044	MYC induces CDK4/6 inhibitors resistance by promoting pRB1 degradation. 	RB1 mass spec with or without MYC amplification	IgG, RB1, RB1-MYC	CDK4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) show anticancer activity in certain human malignancies, such as breast cancer. However, their application to other tumor types and intrinsic resistance mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we demonstrate that MYC amplification confers resistance to CDK4/6i in bladder, prostate and breast cancer cells. Mechanistically, MYC binds to the promoter of the E3 ubiquitin ligase KLHL42 and enhances its transcription, leading to RB1 deficiency by inducing both phosphorylated and total pRB1 ubiquitination and degradation. We identify a compound that degrades MYC, A80.2HCl, which induces MYC degradation at nanomolar concentrations, restores pRB1 protein levels and re-establish sensitivity of MYC high-expressing cancer cells to CDK4/6i. The combination of CDK4/6i and A80.2HCl result in marked regression in tumor growth in vivo. Altogether, these results reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying MYC-induced resistance to CDK4/6i and suggest the utilization of the MYC degrading molecule A80.2HCl to potentiate the therapeutic efficacy of CDK4/6i.
PXD036186	38424171	In situ analysis of osmolyte mechanisms of proteome thermal stabilization. 	In situ analysis of osmolyte mechanisms of proteome thermal stabilisation	Osmolyte mechanisms, aggregation, stress adaptation, structural proteomics, thermal stabilisation	Organisms use organic molecules called osmolytes to adapt to environmental conditions. In vitro studies indicate that osmolytes thermally stabilize proteins, but mechanisms are controversial, and systematic studies within the cellular milieu are lacking. We analyzed Escherichia coli and human protein thermal stabilization by osmolytes in situ and across the proteome. Using structural proteomics, we probed osmolyte effects on protein thermal stability, structure and aggregation, revealing common mechanisms but also osmolyte- and protein-specific effects. All tested osmolytes (trimethylamine N-oxide, betaine, glycerol, proline, trehalose and glucose) stabilized many proteins, predominantly via a preferential exclusion mechanism, and caused an upward shift in temperatures at which most proteins aggregated. Thermal profiling of the human proteome provided evidence for intrinsic disorder in situ but also identified potential structure in predicted disordered regions. Our analysis provides mechanistic insight into osmolyte function within a complex biological matrix and sheds light on the in situ prevalence of intrinsically disordered regions.
PXD048865	38424235	Differential requirements for Smarca5 expression during hematopoietic stem cell commitment. 	Differential requirements for Smarca5 expression during hematopoietic stem cell commitment.	quantification, selected reaction monitoring	The formation of hematopoietic cells relies on the chromatin remodeling activities of ISWI ATPase SMARCA5 (SNF2H) and its complexes. The Smarca5 null and conditional alleles have been used to study its functions in embryonic and organ development in mice. These mouse model phenotypes vary from embryonic lethality of constitutive knockout to less severe phenotypes observed in tissue-specific Smarca5 deletions, e.g., in the hematopoietic system. Here we show that, in a gene dosage-dependent manner, the hypomorphic allele of SMARCA5 (S5(tg)) can rescue not only the developmental arrest in hematopoiesis in the hCD2iCre model but also the lethal phenotypes associated with constitutive Smarca5 deletion or Vav1iCre-driven conditional knockout in hematopoietic progenitor cells. Interestingly, the latter model also provided evidence for the role of SMARCA5 expression level in hematopoietic stem cells, as the Vav1iCre S5(tg) animals accumulate stem and progenitor cells. Furthermore, their hematopoietic stem cells exhibited impaired lymphoid lineage entry and differentiation. This observation contrasts with the myeloid lineage which is developing without significant disturbances. Our findings indicate that animals with low expression of SMARCA5 exhibit normal embryonic development with altered lymphoid entry within the hematopoietic stem cell compartment.
PXD047502	38424324	PolyGR and polyPR knock-in mice reveal a conserved neuroprotective extracellular matrix signature in C9orf72 ALS/FTD neurons. 	PolyGR and polyPR knock-in mice reveal a conserved neuroprotective extracellular matrix signature in C9orf72 ALS/FTD neurons	C9orf72, COL6A1, TGF-beta, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, collagen VI, extracellular matrix, frontotemporal dementia	Dipeptide repeat proteins are a major pathogenic feature of C9orf72 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (C9ALS)/frontotemporal dementia (FTD) pathology, but their physiological impact has yet to be fully determined. Here we generated C9orf72 dipeptide repeat knock-in mouse models characterized by expression of 400 codon-optimized polyGR or polyPR repeats, and heterozygous C9orf72 reduction. (GR)400 and (PR)400 knock-in mice recapitulate key features of C9ALS/FTD, including cortical neuronal hyperexcitability, age-dependent spinal motor neuron loss and progressive motor dysfunction. Quantitative proteomics revealed an increase in extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins in (GR)400 and (PR)400 spinal cord, with the collagen COL6A1 the most increased protein. TGF-beta1 was one of the top predicted regulators of this ECM signature and polyGR expression in human induced pluripotent stem cell neurons was sufficient to induce TGF-beta1 followed by COL6A1. Knockdown of TGF-beta1 or COL6A1 orthologues in polyGR model Drosophila exacerbated neurodegeneration, while expression of TGF-beta1 or COL6A1 in induced pluripotent stem cell-derived motor neurons of patients with C9ALS/FTD protected against glutamate-induced cell death. Altogether, our findings reveal a neuroprotective and conserved ECM signature in C9ALS/FTD.
PXD043902	38424522	Proteomic analysis of breast cancer based on immune subtypes. 	Proteomic analysis of breast cancer based on immune subtypes	Breast cancer, FFPE, Immune subtype, LFQ	BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy is applied to breast cancer to resolve the limitations of survival gain in existing treatment modalities. With immunotherapy, a tumor can be classified into immune-inflamed, excluded and desert based on the distribution of immune cells. We assessed the clinicopathological features, each subtype's prognostic value and differentially expressed proteins between immune subtypes. METHODS: Immune subtyping and proteomic analysis were performed on 56 breast cancer cases with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The immune subtyping was based on the level of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and Klintrup criteria. If the level of TILs was >= 10%, it was classified as immune-inflamed type without consideration of the Klintrup criteria. In cases of 1-9% TIL, Klintrup criteria 1-3 were classified as the immune-excluded subtype and Klintrup criteria not available (NA) was classified as NA. Cases of 1% TILs and Klintrup 0 were classified as the immune-desert subtype. Mass spectrometry was used to identify differentially expressed proteins in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy tissues. RESULTS: Of the 56 cases, 31 (55%) were immune-inflamed, 21 (38%) were immune-excluded, 2 (4%) were immune-desert and 2 (4%) were NA. Welch's t-test revealed two differentially expressed proteins between immune-inflamed and immune-excluded/desert subtypes. Coronin-1A was upregulated in immune-inflamed tumors (adjusted p = 0.008) and alpha-1-antitrypsin was upregulated in immune-excluded/desert tumors (adjusted p = 0.008). Titin was upregulated in pathologic complete response (pCR) than non-pCR among immune-inflamed tumors (adjusted p = 0.036). CONCLUSIONS: Coronin-1A and alpha-1-antitrypsin were upregulated in immune-inflamed and immune-excluded/desert subtypes, respectively. Titin's elevated expression in pCR within the immune-inflamed subtype may indicate a favorable prognosis. Further studies involving large representative cohorts are necessary to validate these findings.
PXD043401	38426210	Proteomic analyses of urinary exosomes identify novel potential biomarkers for early diagnosis of sickle cell nephropathy, a sex-based study. 	Proteomic analyses of urinary exosomes identify heparanase, cathepsin C, 2-macroglobulin and sarcoplasmic endoplasmic Ca2+ ATPase-3 (SERCA3) as potential biomarkers for early diagnosis of sickle nephropathy	albuminuria, humanized sickle cell disease mice., kidney, sickle cell disease, urine	Sickle cell nephropathy (SCN) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in sickle cell disease (SCD). Early intervention is crucial for mitigating its effects. However, current diagnostic methods rely on generic tests and may not detect SCN until irreversible renal damage occurs. Therefore, specific biomarkers for early diagnosis of SCN are needed. Urinary exosomes, membrane-bound vesicles secreted by renal podocytes and epithelial cells, contain both common and cell type-specific membrane and cytosolic proteins, reflecting the physiologic and pathophysiologic states of the kidney. Using proteomics, we analyzed the proteomes of urinary exosomes from humanized SCD mice at 2 months (without albuminuria) and 4 months (with albuminuria) of age. Excretion of 164 proteins were significantly increased and 176 proteins was significantly decreased in the exosomes when mice developed albuminuria. Based on the relevance to SCD, chronic kidney disease and Western blot confirmation in mice, we analyzed protein abundance of heparanase, cathepsin C, alpha2-macroglobulin and sarcoplasmic endoplasmic Ca(2+) ATPase-3 (SERCA3) in the urinary exosomes and urine of 18 SCD subjects without albuminuria and 12 subjects with albuminuria using Western blot analyses. Both male and female subjects increased or tended to increase the excretion of these proteins in their urinary exosomes upon developing albuminuria, but female subjects demonstrated stronger correlations between the excretion of these proteins and urine albumin creatinine ratio (UACR) compared to male subjects. In contrast, exosomal excretion of Tamm-Horsfall protein, beta-actin and SHP-1 was independent of albuminuria. These findings provide a foundation for a time-course study to determine whether increases in the levels of these proteins precede the onset of albuminuria in patients, which will help determine the potential of these proteins as biomarkers for early detection of SCN.
PXD047013	38427176	Alcohol dehydrogenase system acts as the sole pathway for methanol oxidation in Desulfofundulus kuznetsovii strain TPOSR. 	Proteomics analysis of the alcohol metabolism of the sulfate reducer Desulfofundulus kuznetsovii TPOSR	Alcohol dehydrogenase, Alcohol metabolism, Desulfofundulus kuznetsovii, SRB, methanol metabolism, sulfate reducing bacteria	Desulfofundulus kuznetsovii is a thermophilic, spore-forming sulphate-reducing bacterium in the family Peptococcaceae. In this study, we describe a newly isolated strain of D. kuznetsovii, strain TPOSR, and compare its metabolism to the type strain D. kuznetsovii 17(T). Both strains grow on a large variety of alcohols, such as methanol, ethanol and propane-diols, coupled to the reduction of sulphate. Strain 17(T) metabolizes methanol via two routes, one involving a cobalt-dependent methyl transferase and the other using a cobalt-independent alcohol dehydrogenase. However, strain TPOSR, which shares 97% average nucleotide identity with D. kuznetsovii strain 17(T), lacks several genes from the methyl transferase operon found in strain 17(T). The gene encoding the catalytically active methyl transferase subunit B is missing, indicating that strain TPOSR utilizes the alcohol dehydrogenase pathway exclusively. Both strains grew with methanol during cobalt starvation, but growth was impaired. Strain 17(T) was more sensitive to cobalt deficiency, due to the repression of its methyl transferase system. Our findings shed light on the metabolic diversity of D. kuznetsovii and their metabolic differences of encoding one or two routes for the conversion of methanol.
PXD049147	38427557	The TET-Sall4-BMP regulatory axis controls craniofacial cartilage development. 	The TET-Sall4-BMP regulatory axis controls craniofacial cartilage development	Phase separation, TET proteins, craniofacial development, craniofacial microsomia	Craniofacial microsomia (CFM) is a congenital defect that usually results from aberrant development of embryonic pharyngeal arches. However, the molecular basis of CFM pathogenesis is largely unknown. Here, we employ the zebrafish model to investigate mechanisms of CFM pathogenesis. In early embryos, tet2 and tet3 are essential for pharyngeal cartilage development. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that loss of Tet2/3 impairs chondrocyte differentiation due to insufficient BMP signaling. Moreover, biochemical and genetic evidence reveals that the sequence-specific 5mC/5hmC-binding protein, Sall4, binds the promoter of bmp4 to activate bmp4 expression and control pharyngeal cartilage development. Mechanistically, Sall4 directs co-phase separation of Tet2/3 with Sall4 to form condensates that mediate 5mC oxidation on the bmp4 promoter, thereby promoting bmp4 expression and enabling sufficient BMP signaling. These findings suggest the TET-BMP-Sall4 regulatory axis is critical for pharyngeal cartilage development. Collectively, our study provides insights into understanding craniofacial development and CFM pathogenesis.
PXD047704	38427732	Early IGF-1 receptor inhibition in mice mimics preterm human brain disorders and reveals a therapeutic target. 	Early IGF-1 receptor inhibition in mice mimics preterm human brain disorders  and reveals a new therapeutic target	insulin-like growth factor-1, mouse model, neonatal care, preterm newborns	Besides recent advances in neonatal care, preterm newborns still develop sex-biased behavioral alterations. Preterms fail to receive placental insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), a major fetal growth hormone in utero, and low IGF-1 serum levels correlate with preterm poor neurodevelopmental outcomes. Here, we mimicked IGF-1 deficiency of preterm newborns in mice by perinatal administration of an IGF-1 receptor antagonist. This resulted in sex-biased brain microstructural, functional, and behavioral alterations, resembling those of ex-preterm children, which we characterized performing parallel mouse/human behavioral tests. Pharmacological enhancement of GABAergic tonic inhibition by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved drug ganaxolone rescued functional/behavioral alterations in mice. Establishing an unprecedented mouse model of prematurity, our work dissects the mechanisms at the core of abnormal behaviors and identifies a readily translatable therapeutic strategy for preterm brain disorders.
PXD047515	38427737	Targeting postsynaptic glutamate receptor scaffolding proteins PSD-95 and PICK1 for obesity treatment. 	Targeting postsynaptic glutamate receptor scaffolding proteins PSD-95 and PICK1 for obesity treatment	brain, weight-loss	Human genome-wide association studies (GWAS) suggest a functional role for central glutamate receptor signaling and plasticity in body weight regulation. Here, we use UK Biobank GWAS summary statistics of body mass index (BMI) and body fat percentage (BF%) to identify genes encoding proteins known to interact with postsynaptic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Loci in/near discs large homolog 4 (DLG4) and protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1) reached genome-wide significance (P < 5 x 10-8) for BF% and/or BMI. To further evaluate the functional role of postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95; gene name: DLG4) and PICK1 in energy homeostasis, we used dimeric PSD-95/disc large/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain-targeting peptides of PSD-95 and PICK1 to demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of PSD-95 and PICK1 induces prolonged weight-lowering effects in obese mice. Collectively, these data demonstrate that the glutamate receptor scaffolding proteins, PICK1 and PSD-95, are genetically linked to obesity and that pharmacological targeting of their PDZ domains represents a promising therapeutic avenue for sustained weight loss.
PXD045399	38427982	Interactome Analysis of ClpX Reveals Its Regulatory Role in Metabolism and Photosynthesis in Cyanobacteria. 	Interactome Analysis of ClpX  in Cyanobacteria	ClpX, Interactome	Protein homeostasis is essential for cyanobacteria to maintain proper cellular function under adverse and fluctuating conditions. The AAA+ superfamily of proteolytic complexes in cyanobacteria plays a critical role in this process, including ClpXP, which comprises a hexameric ATPase ClpX and a tetradecameric peptidase ClpP. Despite the physiological effects of ClpX on growth and photosynthesis, its potential substrates and underlying mechanisms in cyanobacteria remain unknown. In this study, we employed a streptavidin-biotin affinity pull-down assay coupled with label-free proteome quantitation to analyze the interactome of ClpX in the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (hereafter Synechocystis). We identified 503 proteins as potential ClpX-binding targets, many of which had novel interactions. These ClpX-binding targets were found to be involved in various biological processes, with particular enrichment in metabolic processes and photosynthesis. Using protein-protein docking, GST pull-down, and biolayer interferometry assays, we confirmed the direct association of ClpX with the photosynthetic proteins, ferredoxin-NADP(+) oxidoreductase (FNR) and phycocyanin subunit (CpcA). Subsequent functional investigations revealed that ClpX participates in the maintenance of FNR homeostasis and functionality in Synechocystis grown under different light conditions. Overall, our study provides a comprehensive understanding of the extensive functions regulated by ClpX in cyanobacteria to maintain protein homeostasis and adapt to environmental challenges.
PXD041339	38429264	Caspase-2 protects against ferroptotic cell death. 	Caspase-2 protects against ferroptotic cell death	caspase-2, chaperone mediated autophagy, ferroptosis, mutant-p53	Caspase-2, one of the most evolutionarily conserved members of the caspase family, is an important regulator of the cellular response to oxidative stress. Given that ferroptosis is suppressed by antioxidant defense pathways, such as that involving selenoenzyme glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), we hypothesized that caspase-2 may play a role in regulating ferroptosis. This study provides the first demonstration of an important and unprecedented function of caspase-2 in protecting cancer cells from undergoing ferroptotic cell death. Specifically, we show that depletion of caspase-2 leads to the downregulation of stress response genes including SESN2, HMOX1, SLC7A11, and sensitizes mutant-p53 cancer cells to cell death induced by various ferroptosis-inducing compounds. Importantly, the canonical catalytic activity of caspase-2 is not required for its role and suggests that caspase-2 regulates ferroptosis via non-proteolytic interaction with other proteins. Using an unbiased BioID proteomics screen, we identified novel caspase-2 interacting proteins (including heat shock proteins and co-chaperones) that regulate cellular responses to stress. Finally, we demonstrate that caspase-2 limits chaperone-mediated autophagic degradation of GPX4 to promote the survival of mutant-p53 cancer cells. In conclusion, we document a novel role for caspase-2 as a negative regulator of ferroptosis in cells with mutant p53. Our results provide evidence for a novel function of caspase-2 in cell death regulation and open potential new avenues to exploit ferroptosis in cancer therapy.
PXD048740	38429411	SOCS5-RBMX stimulates SREBP1-mediated lipogenesis to promote metastasis in steatotic HCC with HBV-related cirrhosis. 	SOCS5-RBMX stimulates SREBP1-mediated lipogenesis to promote metastasis in HCC	HCC, SOCS5, lipogenesis	Abnormal lipid metabolism promotes hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression, which engenders therapeutic difficulties owing to unclear mechanisms of the phenomenon. We precisely described a special steatotic HCC subtype with HBV-related cirrhosis and probed its drivers. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining of 245 HCC samples revealed a special HCC subtype (41 cases) characterized by HBV-related cirrhosis and intratumoral steatosis without fatty liver background, defined as steatotic HCC with HBV-related cirrhosis (SBC-HCC). SBC-HCC exhibits a larger tumor volume and worse prognosis than non-SBC-HCC. Screening for driver genes promoting fatty acid (FA) biosynthesis in the Gao's HBV-related cirrhosis HCC cases and GSE121248' HBV-related HCC cases revealed that high expression of SOCS5 predicts increased FA synthesis and that SOCS5 is upregulated in SBC-HCC. Through proteomics, metabolomics, and both in vivo and in vitro experiments, we demonstrated that SOCS5 induces lipid accumulation to promote HCC metastasis. Mechanistically, through co-IP and GST-pulldown experiments, we found that the SOCS5-SH2 domain, especially the amino acids Y413 and D443, act as critical binding sites for the RBMX-RRM domain. SOCS5-RBMX costimulates the promoter of SREBP1, inducing de novo lipogenesis, while mutations in the SH2 domain, Y413, and D443 reverse this effect. These findings precisely identified SBC-HCC as a special steatotic HCC subtype and highlighted a new mechanism by which SOCS5 promotes SBC-HCC metastasis.
PXD044598	38429803	Serum proteome analysis identifies a potential biomarker for axial psoriatic arthritis. 	Serum proteome analysis identifies a potential biomarker for axial psoriatic arthritis	psoriatic arthritis	BACKGROUND: To identify potential serum biomarkers for differentiating between axial psoriatic arthritis (axPsA) and peripheral psoriatic arthritis (pPsA). METHODS: Serum samples were collected from patients with PsA to create a biomarker discovery cohort and a verification cohort. Patients with PsA were classified into axial or peripheral subtypes based on imaging criteria. Untargeted proteomics technology was used in the discovery phase to screen for biomarkers, and candidate biomarkers were evaluated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the verification phase. RESULTS: We identified 45 significantly differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between axPsA (n = 20) and pPsA (n = 20) with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Among these DEPs, serum pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) was identified as a candidate biomarker using the Boruta algorithm and lasso regression. Results of ELISA further confirmed that the level of serum PEDF expression was significantly higher in axPsA (n = 37) than in pPsA (n = 51) at the verification cohort (37.9 +/- 10.1 vs. 30.5 +/- 8.9 mug/mL, p < 0.001). Receiver operating characteristics analysis showed that PEDF had an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.72. Serum PEDF was positively correlated with body mass index and C-reactive protein. Additionally, there was a tendency towards a positive correlation between PEDF and the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index. CONCLUSIONS: This study provided a comprehensive characterization of the proteome in axPsA and pPsA and identified a candidate biomarker, PEDF, that may contribute to early diagnosis for axPsA.
PXD047985	38430003	Development of a Mass Spectrometry-Based Method for Quantification of Total Cashew Protein in Roasting Oil. 	Development of a Mass Spectrometry-Based Method for Quantification of Total Cashew Protein in Roasting Oil	Cashew, Food Allergen, Frying, Oil, Roasting	BACKGROUND: Food allergen cross-contact during food preparation and production is one of the causes of unintentional allergen presence in packaged foods. However, little is known about allergen cross-contact in shared frying or roasting oil, which prevents the establishment of effective allergen controls and may put allergic individuals at risk. To better understand the quantity of allergen transferred to frying oil and subsequent products, an analytical method is needed for quantifying protein in oil that has been exposed to frying/roasting conditions. OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to develop a parallel reaction monitoring LC-MS/MS method to quantify the amount of cashew protein in shared roasting oil. METHODS: The sample preparation method was evaluated to improve protein extractability and peptide performance. Four quantitative peptides representing cashew 2S and 11S proteins were selected as targets based on their sensitivity, heat stability, and specificity. A calibration strategy was developed to quantify the amount of total cashew protein in oil. Method performance was evaluated using a heated cashew-in-oil model system. RESULTS: The method showed high recovery in oil samples spiked with 100 or 10 ppm total cashew protein heated at 138 or 166 degreesC for 2-30 minutes. Samples (100 ppm total cashew protein) heated for 30 minutes had more than 90% recovery when treated at 138 degreesC and more than 50% when heated at 166 degreesC. CONCLUSION: The method is fit-for-purpose for the analysis of cashew allergen cross-contact in oil. HIGHLIGHTS: A novel MS-based method was developed that can accurately quantify the amount of cashew protein present in heated oil.
PXD035146	38430542	Proteomic analysis of ferroptosis pathways reveals a role of CEPT1 in suppressing ferroptosis. 	Interactome of ferroptosis pathways genes	TAP-MS, ferroptosis, interactome	Ferroptosis has been recognized as a unique cell death modality driven by excessive lipid peroxidation and unbalanced cellular metabolism. In this study, we established a protein interaction landscape for ferroptosis pathways through proteomic analyses, and identified choline/ethanolamine phosphotransferase 1 (CEPT1) as a lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3)-interacting protein that regulates LPCAT3 protein stability. In contrast to its known role in promoting phospholipid synthesis, we showed that CEPT1 suppresses ferroptosis potentially by interacting with phospholipases and breaking down certain pro-ferroptotic polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA)-containing phospholipids. Together, our study reveals a previously unrecognized role of CEPT1 in suppressing ferroptosis.
PXD035380	38431085	Integrative transcriptomic and proteomic profile revealed inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation and peroxisomes during renal interstitial fibrosis. 	Label-free quantitative proteome profile of unilateral ureteral obstruction in mouse kidney	Label-free, UUO	Effective therapies of chronic kidney disease (CKD) are lacking due to the unclear molecular pathogenesis. Previous single omics-studies have described potential molecular regulation mechanism of CKD only at the level of transcription or translation. Therefore, this study generated an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic profile to provide deep insights into the continuous transcription-translation process during CKD. The comprehensive datasets identified 14,948 transcripts and 6423 proteins, 233 up-regulated and 364 down-regulated common differentially expressed genes of transcriptome and proteome were selected to further combined bioinformatics analysis. The obtained results revealed reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism and antioxidant system due to imbalance of mitochondria and peroxisomes were significantly repressed in CKD. Overall, this study presents a valuable multi-omics analysis that sheds light on the molecular mechanisms underlying CKD. SIGNIFICANCE: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a progressive and irreversible condition that results in abnormal kidney function and structure, and is ranked 18th among the leading causes of death globally, leading to a significant societal burden. Hence, there is an urgent need for research to detect new, sensitive, and specific biomarkers. Omics-based studies offer great potential to identify underlying disease mechanisms, aid in clinical diagnosis, and develop novel treatment strategies for CKD. Previous studies have mainly focused on the regulation of gene expression or protein synthesis in CKD, thereby compelling us to conduct a meticulous analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic data from the UUO mouse model. Here, we have performed a unified analysis of CKD model by integrating transcriptomes and protein suites for the first time. Our study contributes to a deeper understanding of the pathogenesis of CKD and provides a basis for subsequent disease management and drug development.
PXD037658	38431639	Widespread stable noncanonical peptides identified by integrated analyses of ribosome profiling and ORF features. 	Identifying interaction partners of noncanonical peptides.	interaction protein, noncanonical open reading frames (ncORFs), peptide	Studies have revealed dozens of functional peptides in putative 'noncoding' regions and raised the question of how many proteins are encoded by noncanonical open reading frames (ORFs). Here, we comprehensively annotate genome-wide translated ORFs across five eukaryotes (human, mouse, zebrafish, worm, and yeast) by analyzing ribosome profiling data. We develop a logistic regression model named PepScore based on ORF features (expected length, encoded domain, and conservation) to calculate the probability that the encoded peptide is stable in humans. Systematic ectopic expression validates PepScore and shows that stable complex-associating microproteins can be encoded in 5'/3' untranslated regions and overlapping coding regions of mRNAs besides annotated noncoding RNAs. Stable noncanonical proteins follow conventional rules and localize to different subcellular compartments. Inhibition of proteasomal/lysosomal degradation pathways can stabilize some peptides especially those with moderate PepScores, but cannot rescue the expression of short ones with low PepScores suggesting they are directly degraded by cellular proteases. The majority of human noncanonical peptides with high PepScores show longer lengths but low conservation across species/mammals, and hundreds contain trait-associated genetic variants. Our study presents a statistical framework to identify stable noncanonical peptides in the genome and provides a valuable resource for functional characterization of noncanonical translation during development and disease.
PXD041998	38434421	Use of the traditional Chinese medicine "compound healthy ear agent" to protect against age-related hearing loss in mice: A proteomics study. 	The Study of Chinese Medicine Intervention on Apoptosis of Cochlear hair cells in C57BL/6J Aged Cochlea	Chinese Medicine, Cochlear hair cell, TMT	Background: Previous studies have shown that the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) called "compound healthy ear agent" (CHEA) had anti-apoptosis effects in cochlear hair cells and spiral ganglion neurons, and could protect mice hearing against presbycusis or age-related hearing loss (AHL), as well as aminoglycoside antibiotic-induced ototoxicity. Because its mechanisms of action are still unclear, we investigated the mechanism of action of CHEA against AHL in mice using proteomics techniques. Methods: Eighteen C57BL/6J mice at 1 month of age were randomly divided into three groups: (A) drinking water until 2 months of age, K2M); (B) drinking water until 7 months of age to induce AHL, K7M; (C) drinking water containing CHEA daily until 7 months of age as treatment group, Z7M. At 2 or 7 months mice were sacrificed and their cochleae were removed for proteomics analysis. Results: The numbers of proteins with a false discovery rate (FDR) < 1% were respectively 5873 for qualitative and 5492 for quantitative statistics. The numbers of proteins with differential enrichment at least 1.5-fold (p < 0.05) were respectively 351 for K7M vs K2M groups, 52 for Z7M vs K7M groups, 264 for Z7M vs K2M groups. The differentially expressed proteins in the Z7M group were involved in synaptic molecular transmission, energy metabolism, immune response, antioxidant defenses, and anti-apoptosis. Conclusion: The TCM CHEA played a protective role against AHL in mice by regulating the expression of specific proteins and genes in cochlear hair cells and spiral ganglion neurons. Besides the pathways expected to be involved (antioxidant and anti-apoptosis), proteins related to immune response is a new finding of the present study.
PXD040041	38436697	Apurinic/apyrimidinic endodeoxyribonuclease 1 (APE1) promotes stress granule formation via YBX1 phosphorylation in ovarian cancer. 	APEX1 alters the phospho-landscape of SKOV3 cells	phosphoproteomics	APE1 is an essential gene involved in DNA damage repair, the redox regulation of transcriptional factors (TFs) and RNA processing. APE1 overexpression is common in cancers and correlates with poor patient survival. Stress granules (SGs) are phase-separated cytoplasmic assemblies that cells form in response to environmental stresses. Precise regulation of SGs is pivotal to cell survival, whereas their dysregulation is increasingly linked to diseases. Whether APE1 engages in modulating SG dynamics is worthy of investigation. In this study, we demonstrate that APE1 colocalizes with SGs and promotes their formation. Through phosphoproteome profiling, we discover that APE1 significantly alters the phosphorylation landscape of ovarian cancer cells, particularly the phosphoprofile of SG proteins. Notably, APE1 promotes the phosphorylation of Y-Box binding protein 1 (YBX1) at S174 and S176, leading to enhanced SG formation and cell survival. Moreover, expression of the phosphomutant YBX1 S174/176E mimicking hyperphosphorylation in APE1-knockdown cells recovered the impaired SG formation. These findings shed light on the functional importance of APE1 in SG regulation and highlight the importance of YBX1 phosphorylation in SG dynamics.
PXD047965	38437498	BRG1/BRM inhibitor targets AML stem cells and exerts superior preclinical efficacy combined with BET or Menin inhibitor. 	Determination of protein expression changes due to treatment with chromatin remodeling inhibitor FHD-286 in MLL1-rearranged AML cells	FHD-286, MLL1-rearranged AML, chromatin remodelers	BRG1 (SMARCA4) and BRM (SMARCA2) are the mutually exclusive core ATPases of the chromatin remodeling BAF (BRG1/BRM-associated factor) complexes. They enable transcription factors/co-factors to access enhancers/promoter and modulate gene-expressions responsible for cell growth and differentiation of AML stem/progenitor cells. In AML with MLL1r (MLL1 rearrangement) or mutant (mt) NPM1, although Menin inhibitor (MI) treatment induces clinical remissions, most patients either fail to respond or relapse, some harboring Menin mutations. FHD-286 is an orally bioavailable, selective inhibitor of BRG1/BRM under clinical development in AML. Present studies show that FHD-286 induces differentiation and lethality in AML cells with MLL1r or mtNPM1, concomitantly causing perturbed chromatin accessibility and repression of c-Myc, PU.1 and CDK4/6. Co-treatment with FHD-286 and decitabine, BET inhibitor (BETi) or MI, or venetoclax synergistically induced in vitro lethality in AML cells with MLL1r or mtNPM1. In patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of AML with MLL1r or mtNPM1, FHD-286 treatment reduced AML burden, improved survival, and attenuated AML-initiating potential of stem-progenitor cells. Compared to each drug, co-treatment with FHD-286 and BETi, MI, decitabine or venetoclax significantly reduced AML burden and improved survival, without inducing significant toxicity. These findings highlight the FHD-286-based combinations as promising therapy of AML with MLL1r or mtNPM1.
PXD044242	38438368	PsAF5 functions as an essential adapter for PsPHB2-mediated mitophagy under ROS stress in Phytophthora sojae. 	PsAF5 functions as an essential adapter for PsPHB2-mediated mitophagy under ROS stress in Phytophthora sojae	Oomycete, Phytophthora sojae, mitochondria	Host-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS) are an important defense means to protect against pathogens. Although mitochondria are the main intracellular targets of ROS, how pathogens regulate mitochondrial physiology in response to oxidative stress remains elusive. Prohibitin 2 (PHB2) is an inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM) protein, recognized as a mitophagy receptor in animals and fungi. Here, we find that an ANK and FYVE domain-containing protein PsAF5, is an adapter of PsPHB2, interacting with PsATG8 under ROS stress. Unlike animal PHB2 that can recruit ATG8 directly to mitochondria, PsPHB2 in Phytophthora sojae cannot recruit PsATG8 to stressed mitochondria without PsAF5. PsAF5 deletion impairs mitophagy under ROS stress and increases the pathogen's sensitivity to H2O2, resulting in the attenuation of P. sojae virulence. This discovery of a PsPHB2-PsATG8 adapter (PsAF5) in plant-pathogenic oomycetes reveals that mitophagy induction by IMM proteins is conserved in eukaryotes, but with differences in the details of ATG8 recruitment.
PXD028211	38438956	Radiogenomic analysis of ultrasound phenotypic features coupled to proteomes predicts metastatic risk in primary prostate cancer. 	Proteomics reveals the ribosome signaling pathway promoting prostate cancer progression and correlating with poor prognosis	Mrpl1, Mrpl16, Mrpl4, Prognosis, Prostate cancer, Quantitative proteomics, Ribosome signaling pathway	BACKGROUND: Primary prostate cancer with metastasis has a poor prognosis, so assessing its risk of metastasis is essential. METHODS: This study combined comprehensive ultrasound features with tissue proteomic analysis to obtain biomarkers and practical diagnostic image features that signify prostate cancer metastasis. RESULTS: In this study, 17 ultrasound image features of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), primary prostate cancer without metastasis (PPCWOM), and primary prostate cancer with metastasis (PPCWM) were comprehensively analyzed and combined with the corresponding tissue proteome data to perform weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), which resulted in two modules highly correlated with the ultrasound phenotype. We screened proteins with temporal expression trends based on the progression of the disease from BPH to PPCWOM and ultimately to PPCWM from two modules and obtained a protein that can promote prostate cancer metastasis. Subsequently, four ultrasound image features significantly associated with the metastatic biomarker HNRNPC (Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C) were identified by analyzing the correlation between the protein and ultrasound image features. The biomarker HNRNPC showed a significant difference in the five-year survival rate of prostate cancer patients (p < 0.0053). On the other hand, we validated the diagnostic efficiency of the four ultrasound image features in clinical data from 112 patients with PPCWOM and 150 patients with PPCWM, obtaining a combined diagnostic AUC of 0.904. In summary, using ultrasound imaging features for predicting whether prostate cancer is metastatic has many applications. CONCLUSION: The above study reveals noninvasive ultrasound image biomarkers and their underlying biological significance, which provide a basis for early diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of primary prostate cancer with metastasis.
PXD044952	38439036	Large-scale phosphoproteomics reveals activation of the MAPK/GADD45beta/P38 axis and cell cycle inhibition in response to BMP9 and BMP10 stimulation in endothelial cells. 	Deciphering early phosphoproteome changes in response to BMP9 and BMP10 in endothelial cells	Vascular homeostasis, bone morphogenetic proteins, endothelial cells, phosphoproteomics, signaling pathways	BACKGROUND: BMP9 and BMP10 are two major regulators of vascular homeostasis. These two ligands bind with high affinity to the endothelial type I kinase receptor ALK1, together with a type II receptor, leading to the direct phosphorylation of the SMAD transcription factors. Apart from this canonical pathway, little is known. Interestingly, mutations in this signaling pathway have been identified in two rare cardiovascular diseases, hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia and pulmonary arterial hypertension. METHODS: To get an overview of the signaling pathways modulated by BMP9 and BMP10 stimulation in endothelial cells, we employed an unbiased phosphoproteomic-based strategy. Identified phosphosites were validated by western blot analysis and regulated targets by RT-qPCR. Cell cycle analysis was analyzed by flow cytometry. RESULTS: Large-scale phosphoproteomics revealed that BMP9 and BMP10 treatment induced a very similar phosphoproteomic profile. These BMPs activated a non-canonical transcriptional SMAD-dependent MAPK pathway (MEKK4/P38). We were able to validate this signaling pathway and demonstrated that this activation required the expression of the protein GADD45beta. In turn, activated P38 phosphorylated the heat shock protein HSP27 and the endocytosis protein Eps15 (EGF receptor pathway substrate), and regulated the expression of specific genes (E-selectin, hyaluronan synthase 2 and cyclooxygenase 2). This study also highlighted the modulation in phosphorylation of proteins involved in transcriptional regulation (phosphorylation of the endothelial transcription factor ERG) and cell cycle inhibition (CDK4/6 pathway). Accordingly, we found that BMP10 induced a G1 cell cycle arrest and inhibited the mRNA expression of E2F2, cyclinD1 and cyclinA1. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our phosphoproteomic screen identified numerous proteins whose phosphorylation state is impacted by BMP9 and BMP10 treatment, paving the way for a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulated by BMP signaling in vascular diseases.
PXD048015	38440791	Identification of potential novel proteomic markers of Leishmania spp.-derived exosomes. 	Proteomic Biomarkers for Leishmanial Extracellular Vesicles	Exosome, Extracellular Vesicle, Leishmania, Leishmaniasis	Introduction: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are heterogenous cell-derived membrane-bound structures which can be subdivided into three distinct classes according to distinct morphological characteristics, cellular origins, and functions. Small EVs, or exosomes, can be produced by the protozoan parasite Leishmania through the evolutionarily conserved ESCRT pathway, and act as effectors of virulence and drivers of pathogenesis within mammalian hosts. Techniques for the identification of EVs of non-mammalian origin, however, remain inaccurate in comparison to their well-characterized mammalian counterparts. Thus, we still lack reliable and specific markers for Leishmania-derived exosomes, which poses a significant challenge to the field. Methods: Herein, we utilized serial differential ultracentrifugation to separate Leishmania-derived EV populations into three distinct fractions. Nanoparticle tracking analysis and transmission electron microscopy were used to validate their morphological characteristics, and bioinformatic analysis of LC-MS/MS proteomics corroborated cellular origins and function. Discussion: Proteomic data indicated potential novel proteic markers of Leishmania-derived exosomes, including proteins involved in endosomal machinery and the ESCRT pathway, as well as the parasitic phosphatase PRL-1. Further investigation is required to determine the specificity and sensitivity of these markers.
PXD044948	38441365	A Cell-Permeable Photosensitizer for Selective Proximity Labeling and Crosslinking of Aggregated Proteome. 	A Cell-Permeable Photosensitizer for Selective Proximity Labeling and Crosslinking of Aggregated Proteome	Aggregate, Photosensitizer	Intracellular proteome aggregation is a ubiquitous disease hallmark with its composition associated with pathogenicity. Herein, this work reports on a cell-permeable photosensitizer (P8, Rose Bengal derivative) for selective photo induced proximity labeling and crosslinking of cellular aggregated proteome. Rose Bengal is identified out of common photosensitizer scaffolds for its unique intrinsic binding affinity to various protein aggregates driven by the hydrophobic effect. Further acetylation permeabilizes Rose Bengal to selectively image, label, and crosslink aggregated proteome in live stressed cells. A combination of photo-chemical, tandem mass spectrometry, and protein biochemistry characterizations reveals the complexity in photosensitizing pathways (both Type I & II), modification sites and labeling mechanisms. The diverse labeling sites and reaction types result in highly effective enrichment and identification of aggregated proteome. Finally, aggregated proteomics and interaction analyses thereby reveal extensive entangling of proteostasis network components mediated by HSP70 chaperone (HSPA1B) and active participation of autophagy pathway in combating proteasome inhibition. Overall, this work exemplifies the first photo induced proximity labeling and crosslinking method (namely AggID) to profile intracellular aggregated proteome and analyze its interactions.
PXD045101	38442003	Divergent mitochondrial responses and metabolic signal pathways secure the azole resistance in Crabtree-positive and negative Candida species. 	Divergent mitochondrial responses and metabolic signal pathways secure the azole resistance in Crabtree-positive and negative Candida species	Azoles resistance, Candida species, Mitochondria	Azole drugs are the main therapeutic drugs for invasive fungal infections. However, azole-resistant strains appear repeatedly in the environment, posing a major threat to human health. Several reports have shown that mitochondria are associated with the virulence of pathogenic fungi. However, there are few studies on the mechanisms of mitochondria-mediated azoles resistance. Here, we first performed mitochondrial proteomic analysis on multiple Candida species (Candida albicans, Nakaseomyces glabrata, Pichia kudriavzevii, and Candida auris) and analyzed the differentially expressed mitochondrial proteins (DEMPs) between azole-sensitive and azole-resistant Candida species. Subsequently, we performed Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis, gene ontology analysis, and protein-protein interaction network analysis of DEMPs. Our results showed that a total of 417, 165, and 25 DEMPs were identified in resistant C. albicans, N. glabrata, and C. auris, respectively. These DEMPs were enriched in ribosomal biogenesis at cytosol and mitochondria, tricarboxylic acid cycle, glycolysis, transporters, ergosterol, and cell wall mannan biosynthesis. The high activations of these cellular activities, found in C. albicans and C. auris (at low scale), were mostly opposite to those observed in two fermenter species-N. glabrata and P. kudriavzevii. Several transcription factors including Rtg3 were highly produced in resistant C. albicans that experienced a complex I activation of mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC). The reduction of mitochondrial-related activities and complex IV/V of ETC in N. glabrata and P. kudriavzevii was companying with the reduced proteins of Tor1, Hog1, and Snf1/Snf4.IMPORTANCECandida spp. are common organisms that cause a variety of invasive diseases. However, Candida spp. are resistant to azoles, which hinders antifungal therapy. Exploring the drug-resistance mechanism of pathogenic Candida spp. will help improve the prevention and control strategy and discover new targets. Mitochondria, as an important organelle in eukaryotic cells, are closely related to a variety of cellular activities. However, the role of mitochondrial proteins in mediating azole resistance in Candida spp. has not been elucidated. Here, we analyzed the mitochondrial proteins and signaling pathways that mediate azole resistance in Candida spp. to provide ideas and references for solving the problem of azole resistance. Our work may offer new insights into the connection between mitochondria and azoles resistance in pathogenic fungi and highlight the potential clinical value of mitochondrial proteins in the treatment of invasive fungal infections.
PXD046838	38442005	Trinucleotide mRNA Cap Analogue N6-Benzylated at the Site of Posttranscriptional (m6)Am Mark Facilitates mRNA Purification and Confers Superior Translational Properties In Vitro and In Vivo. 	Trinucleotide cap analogs with N6-adenosine modifications: interaction partners in HEK293F cell line	5 cap, HEK293, N6-benzyladenosine, N6-methyladenosine, mRNA	Eukaryotic mRNAs undergo cotranscriptional 5'-end modification with a 7-methylguanosine cap. In higher eukaryotes, the cap carries additional methylations, such as (m6)Am-a common epitranscriptomic mark unique to the mRNA 5'-end. This modification is regulated by the Pcif1 methyltransferase and the FTO demethylase, but its biological function is still unknown. Here, we designed and synthesized a trinucleotide FTO-resistant N6-benzyl analogue of the (m6)Am-cap-m(7)Gppp(Bn6)AmpG (termed AvantCap) and incorporated it into mRNA using T7 polymerase. mRNAs carrying (Bn6)Am showed several advantages over typical capped transcripts. The (Bn6)Am moiety was shown to act as a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) purification handle, allowing the separation of capped and uncapped RNA species, and to produce transcripts with lower dsRNA content than reference caps. In some cultured cells, (Bn6)Am mRNAs provided higher protein yields than mRNAs carrying Am or (m6)Am, although the effect was cell-line-dependent. m(7)Gppp(Bn6)AmpG-capped mRNAs encoding reporter proteins administered intravenously to mice provided up to 6-fold higher protein outputs than reference mRNAs, while mRNAs encoding tumor antigens showed superior activity in therapeutic settings as anticancer vaccines. The biochemical characterization suggests several phenomena potentially underlying the biological properties of AvantCap: (i) reduced propensity for unspecific interactions, (ii) involvement in alternative translation initiation, and (iii) subtle differences in mRNA impurity profiles or a combination of these effects. AvantCapped-mRNAs bearing the (Bn6)Am may pave the way for more potent mRNA-based vaccines and therapeutics and serve as molecular tools to unravel the role of (m6)Am in mRNA.
PXD043644	38442019	Liver-derived plasminogen mediates muscle stem cell expansion during caloric restriction through the plasminogen receptor Plg-RKT. 	Liver-derived plasminogen mediates muscle stem cell expansion during caloric restriction through the plasminogen receptor, Plg-RKT. Bareja, White, Et. Al.	metRS, secretome	An intriguing effect of short-term caloric restriction (CR) is the expansion of certain stem cell populations, including muscle stem cells (satellite cells), which facilitate an accelerated regenerative program after injury. Here, we utilized the MetRS(L274G) (MetRS) transgenic mouse to identify liver-secreted plasminogen as a candidate for regulating satellite cell expansion during short-term CR. Knockdown of circulating plasminogen prevents satellite cell expansion during short-term CR. Furthermore, loss of the plasminogen receptor KT (Plg-RKT) is also sufficient to prevent CR-related satellite cell expansion, consistent with direct signaling of plasminogen through the plasminogen receptor Plg-RKT/ERK kinase to promote proliferation of satellite cells. Importantly, we are able to replicate many of these findings in human participants from the CALERIE trial. Our results demonstrate that CR enhances liver protein secretion of plasminogen, which signals directly to the muscle satellite cell through Plg-RKT to promote proliferation and subsequent muscle resilience during CR.
PXD043887	38443379	DJ-1 protects proteins from acylation by catalyzing the hydrolysis of highly reactive cyclic 3-phosphoglyceric anhydride. 	DJ-1 protects cells by catalyzing the hydrolysis of cyclic 3-phosphoglyceric anhydride - a highly reactive glycolytic byproduct	DJ-1, PARK7, Parkinson's disease, cyclic acylphosphate, cyclic phosphoglyceric anhydride, glycolysis, metabolite damage	Mutations in the human PARK7 gene that encodes protein DJ-1 lead to familial Parkinsonism due to loss of dopaminergic neurons. However, the molecular function of DJ-1 underpinning its cytoprotective effects are unclear. Recently, DJ-1 has been shown to prevent acylation of amino groups of proteins and metabolites by 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate. This acylation is indirect and thought to proceed via the formation of an unstable intermediate, presumably a cyclic 3-phosphoglyceric anhydride (cPGA). Several lines of evidence indicate that DJ-1 destroys cPGA, however this enzymatic activity has not been directly demonstrated. Here, we report simple and effective procedures for synthesis and quantitation of cPGA and present a comprehensive characterization of this highly reactive acylating electrophile. We demonstrate that DJ-1 is an efficient cPGA hydrolase with kcat/Km = 5.9 x 10(6) M(-1)s(-1). Experiments with DJ-1-null cells reveal that DJ-1 protects against accumulation of 3-phosphoglyceroyl-lysine residues in proteins. Our results establish a definitive cytoprotective function for DJ-1 that uses catalytic hydrolysis of cPGA to mitigate the damage from this glycolytic byproduct.
PXD045922	38444803	Proteomics analysis reveals differential acclimation of coastal and oceanic Synechococcus to climate warming and iron limitation. 	Proteomics analysis reveals differential acclimation of coastal and oceanic Synechococcus to climate warming and iron limitation	LCMS, Synechococcus, iron limitation, marine	In many oceanic regions, anthropogenic warming will coincide with iron (Fe) limitation. Interactive effects between warming and Fe limitation on phytoplankton physiology and biochemical function are likely, as temperature and Fe availability affect many of the same essential cellular pathways. However, we lack a clear understanding of how globally significant phytoplankton such as the picocyanobacteria Synechococcus will respond to these co-occurring stressors, and what underlying molecular mechanisms will drive this response. Moreover, ecotype-specific adaptations can lead to nuanced differences in responses between strains. In this study, Synechococcus isolates YX04-1 (oceanic) and XM-24 (coastal) from the South China Sea were acclimated to Fe limitation at two temperatures, and their physiological and proteomic responses were compared. Both strains exhibited reduced growth due to warming and Fe limitation. However, coastal XM-24 maintained relatively higher growth rates in response to warming under replete Fe, while its growth was notably more compromised under Fe limitation at both temperatures compared with YX04-1. In response to concurrent heat and Fe stress, oceanic YX04-1 was better able to adjust its photosynthetic proteins and minimize the generation of reactive oxygen species while reducing proteome Fe demand. Its intricate proteomic response likely enabled oceanic YX04-1 to mitigate some of the negative impact of warming on its growth during Fe limitation. Our study highlights how ecologically-shaped adaptations in Synechococcus strains even from proximate oceanic regions can lead to differing physiological and proteomic responses to these climate stressors.
PXD048208	38446219	The serine/threonine protein kinase MpSTE1 directly governs hyphal branching in Monascus spp. 	Phosphoproteome of Monascus purpureus	Monascus, phosphoproteome	Monascus spp. are commercially important fungi due to their ability to produce beneficial secondary metabolites such as the cholesterol-lowering agent lovastatin and natural food colorants azaphilone pigments. Although hyphal branching intensively influenced the production of these secondary metabolites, the pivotal regulators of hyphal development in Monascus spp. remain unclear. To identify these important regulators, we developed an artificial intelligence (AI)-assisted image analysis tool for quantification of hyphae-branching and constructed a random T-DNA insertion library. High-throughput screening revealed that a STE kinase, MpSTE1, was considered as a key regulator of hyphal branching based on the hyphal phenotype. To further validate the role of MpSTE1, we generated an mpSTE1 gene knockout mutant, a complemented mutant, and an overexpression mutant (OE::mpSTE1). Microscopic observations revealed that overexpression of mpSTE1 led to a 63% increase in branch number while deletion of mpSTE1 reduced the hyphal branching by 68% compared to the wild-type strain. In flask cultures, the strain OE::mpSTE1 showed accelerated growth and glucose consumption. More importantly, the strain OE::mpSTE1 produced 9.2 mg/L lovastatin and 17.0 mg/L azaphilone pigments, respectively, 47.0% and 30.1% higher than those of the wild-type strain. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that MpSTE1 directly phosphorylated 7 downstream signal proteins involved in cell division, cytoskeletal organization, and signal transduction. To our best knowledge, MpSTE1 is reported as the first characterized regulator for tightly regulating the hyphal branching in Monascus spp. These findings significantly expanded current understanding of the signaling pathway governing the hyphal branching and development in Monascus spp. Furthermore, MpSTE1 and its analogs were demonstrated as promising targets for improving production of valuable secondary metabolites. KEY POINTS: * MpSTE1 is the first characterized regulator for tightly regulating hyphal branching * Overexpression of mpSTE1 significantly improves secondary metabolite production * A high-throughput image analysis tool was developed for counting hyphal branching.
PXD036029	38446618	Systems level analysis of time and stimuli specific signaling through PKA. 	glc and 1-NM-PP1 timecourses in tpk1/2/3as; TMT2 (4646)	glucose	It is well known that eukaryotic cells create gradients of cAMP across space and time to regulate the cAMP dependent protein kinase (PKA) and, in turn, growth and metabolism. However, it is unclear how PKA responds to different concentrations of cAMP. Here, to address this question, we examine PKA signaling in S. cerevisiae in different conditions, timepoints, and concentrations of the chemical inhibitor 1-NM-PP1, using phosphoproteomics. These experiments show that there are numerous proteins that are only phosphorylated when cAMP and PKA activity are at/near their maximum level, while other proteins are phosphorylated even when cAMP levels and PKA activity are low. The data also show that PKA drives cells into distinct growth states by acting on proteins with different thresholds for phosphorylation in different conditions. Analysis of the sequences surrounding the 118 PKA-dependent phosphosites suggests that the phosphorylation thresholds are set, at least in part, by the affinity of PKA for each site.
PXD038747	38447109	Pharmacological induction of autophagy reduces inflammation in macrophages by degrading immunoproteasome subunits. 	The mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis of macrophages	LPS, Macrophage, immunoproteasome	Defective autophagy is linked to proinflammatory diseases. However, the mechanisms by which autophagy limits inflammation remain elusive. Here, we found that the pan-FGFR inhibitor LY2874455 efficiently activated autophagy and suppressed expression of proinflammatory factors in macrophages stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Multiplex proteomic profiling identified the immunoproteasome, which is a specific isoform of the 20s constitutive proteasome, as a substrate that is degraded by selective autophagy. SQSTM1/p62 was found to be a selective autophagy-related receptor that mediated this degradation. Autophagy deficiency or p62 knockdown blocked the effects of LY2874455, leading to the accumulation of immunoproteasomes and increases in inflammatory reactions. Expression of proinflammatory factors in autophagy-deficient macrophages could be reversed by immunoproteasome inhibitors, confirming the pivotal role of immunoproteasome turnover in the autophagy-mediated suppression on the expression of proinflammatory factors. In mice, LY2874455 protected against LPS-induced acute lung injury and dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis and caused low levels of proinflammatory cytokines and immunoproteasomes. These findings suggested that selective autophagy of the immunoproteasome was a key regulator of signaling via the innate immune system.
PXD042933	38447574	In vivo CRISPR screening directly targeting testicular cells. 	LFQ of Spot-Trap IP-MS from Y-79 cells expressing RD3-Spot	LFQ, RD3, Spot-Trap, Y-79	CRISPR-Cas9 short guide RNA (sgRNA) library screening is a powerful approach to understand the molecular mechanisms of biological phenomena. However, its in vivo application is currently limited. Here, we developed our previously established in vitro revival screening method into an in vivo one to identify factors involved in spermatogenesis integrity by utilizing sperm capacitation as an indicator. By introducing an sgRNA library into testicular cells, we successfully pinpointed the retinal degeneration 3 (Rd3) gene as a significant factor in spermatogenesis. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis highlighted the high expression of Rd3 in round spermatids, and proteomics analysis indicated that Rd3 interacts with mitochondria. To search for cell-type-specific signaling pathways based on scRNA-seq and proteomics analyses, we developed a computational tool, Hub-Explorer. Through this, we discovered that Rd3 modulates oxidative stress by regulating mitochondrial distribution upon ciliogenesis induction. Collectively, our screening system provides a valuable in vivo approach to decipher molecular mechanisms in biological processes.
PXD044605	38447790	Universal pretreatment development for low-input proteomics using lauryl maltose neopentyl glycol. 	Low-input proteomics using lauryl maltose neopentyl glycol	DMNG, EVOSEP ONE, LASP, LMNG, SCP, coIP, extracellular vesicles, single cell proteomics	In recent years, there has been a growing demand for low-input proteomics, particularly in the context of single-cell proteomics (SCP). In this study, we have developed a lauryl maltose neopentyl glycol (LMNG)-assisted sample preparation (LASP) method. This method effectively reduces protein and peptide loss in samples by incorporating LMNG, a surfactant, into the digestion solution and subsequently removing the LMNG simply via reversed phase solid-phase extraction. The advantage of removing LMNG during sample preparation for general proteomic analysis is the prevention of mass spectrometry (MS) contamination. When we applied the LASP method to the low-input SP3 method and on-bead digestion in co-immunoprecipitation-MS, we observed a significant improvement in the recovery of the digested peptides. Furthermore, we have established a simple and easy sample preparation method for SCP based on the LASP method (scpLASP) and identified a median of 1,175 proteins from a single HEK239F cell using liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS with a throughput of 80 samples per day.
PXD045319	38447879	Apolipoprotein E is enriched in dense deposits and is a marker for dense deposit disease in C3 glomerulopathy. 	Apolipoprotein E is associated with dense deposits in dense deposit disease	LCM, glomeruli, kidney, tandem mass spectrometry	C3 glomerulopathy (C3G) is a rare disease resulting from dysregulation of the alternative pathway of complement. C3G includes C3 glomerulonephritis (C3GN) and dense deposit disease (DDD), both of which are characterized by bright glomerular C3 staining on immunofluorescence studies. However, on electron microscopy (EM), DDD is characterized by dense osmiophilic mesangial and intramembranous deposits along the glomerular basement membranes (GBM), while the deposits of C3GN are not dense. Why the deposits appear dense in DDD and not in C3GN is not known. We performed laser microdissection (LCM) of glomeruli followed by mass spectrometry (MS) in 12 cases each of DDD, C3GN, and pretransplant kidney control biopsies. LCM/MS showed marked accumulation of complement proteins C3, C5, C6, C7, C8, C9 and complement regulating proteins CFHR5, CFHR1, and CFH in C3GN and DDD compared to controls. C3, CFH and CFHR proteins were comparable in C3GN and DDD. Yet, there were significant differences. First, there was a six-to-nine-fold increase of C5-9 in DDD compared to C3GN. Secondly, an unexpected finding was a nine-fold increase in apolipoprotein E (ApoE) in DDD compared to C3GN. Most importantly, immunohistochemical and confocal staining for ApoE mirrored the dense deposit staining in the GBM in DDD but not in C3GN or control cases. Validation studies using 31 C3G cases confirmed the diagnosis of C3GN and DDD in 80.6 % based on ApoE staining. Overall, there is a higher burden of terminal complement pathway proteins in DDD compared to C3GN. Thus, our study shows that dense deposits in DDD are enriched with ApoE compared to C3GN and control cases. Hence, ApoE staining may be used as an adjunct to EM for the diagnosis of DDD and might be valuable when EM is not available.
PXD020773	38448585	Decoding chromatin states by proteomic profiling of nucleosome readers. 	Proteomics analysis of ligated and recombinant human histones H3 and H4	ligated histones, recombinant histones	DNA and histone modifications combine into characteristic patterns that demarcate functional regions of the genome(1,2). While many 'readers' of individual modifications have been described(3-5), how chromatin states comprising composite modification signatures, histone variants and internucleosomal linker DNA are interpreted is a major open question. Here we use a multidimensional proteomics strategy to systematically examine the interaction of around 2,000 nuclear proteins with over 80 modified dinucleosomes representing promoter, enhancer and heterochromatin states. By deconvoluting complex nucleosome-binding profiles into networks of co-regulated proteins and distinct nucleosomal features driving protein recruitment or exclusion, we show comprehensively how chromatin states are decoded by chromatin readers. We find highly distinctive binding responses to different features, many factors that recognize multiple features, and that nucleosomal modifications and linker DNA operate largely independently in regulating protein binding to chromatin. Our online resource, the Modification Atlas of Regulation by Chromatin States (MARCS), provides in-depth analysis tools to engage with our results and advance the discovery of fundamental principles of genome regulation by chromatin states.
PXD037078	38448650	The rapid proximity labeling system PhastID identifies ATP6AP1 as an unconventional GEF for Rheb. 	Rheb and TRF1 PhastID mass spectrometric data	PhastID, Rheb	Rheb is a small G protein that functions as the direct activator of the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) to coordinate signaling cascades in response to nutrients and growth factors. Despite extensive studies, the guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that directly activates Rheb remains unclear, at least in part due to the dynamic and transient nature of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) that are the hallmarks of signal transduction. Here, we report the development of a rapid and robust proximity labeling system named Pyrococcus horikoshii biotin protein ligase (PhBPL)-assisted biotin identification (PhastID) and detail the insulin-stimulated changes in Rheb-proximity protein networks that were identified using PhastID. In particular, we found that the lysosomal V-ATPase subunit ATP6AP1 could dynamically interact with Rheb. ATP6AP1 could directly bind to Rheb through its last 12 amino acids and utilizes a tri-aspartate motif in its highly conserved C-tail to enhance Rheb GTP loading. In fact, targeting the ATP6AP1 C-tail could block Rheb activation and inhibit cancer cell proliferation and migration. Our findings highlight the versatility of PhastID in mapping transient PPIs in live cells, reveal ATP6AP1's role as an unconventional GEF for Rheb, and underscore the importance of ATP6AP1 in integrating mTORC1 activation signals through Rheb, filling in the missing link in Rheb/mTORC1 activation.
PXD048012	38448734	Mitochondrial ATP generation is more proteome efficient than glycolysis. 	Mitochondrial ATP generation is more proteome efficient than glycolysis (I. orientalis)	Issatchenkia orientalis, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, absolute proteomics	Metabolic efficiency profoundly influences organismal fitness. Nonphotosynthetic organisms, from yeast to mammals, derive usable energy primarily through glycolysis and respiration. Although respiration is more energy efficient, some cells favor glycolysis even when oxygen is available (aerobic glycolysis, Warburg effect). A leading explanation is that glycolysis is more efficient in terms of ATP production per unit mass of protein (that is, faster). Through quantitative flux analysis and proteomics, we find, however, that mitochondrial respiration is actually more proteome efficient than aerobic glycolysis. This is shown across yeast strains, T cells, cancer cells, and tissues and tumors in vivo. Instead of aerobic glycolysis being valuable for fast ATP production, it correlates with high glycolytic protein expression, which promotes hypoxic growth. Aerobic glycolytic yeasts do not excel at aerobic growth but outgrow respiratory cells during oxygen limitation. We accordingly propose that aerobic glycolysis emerges from cells maintaining a proteome conducive to both aerobic and hypoxic growth.
PXD044492	38448737	Tektin bundle interacting protein, TEKTIP1, functions to stabilize the tektin bundle and axoneme in mouse sperm flagella. 	IBT quantitative Proteomics of TEKTIP1-KO and wild mouse sperm explore the functional defect caused by Tektip1 deletion	TEKTIP1, quantitative proteomics, sperm	Tektins are microtubule inner proteins (MIPs) and localize at the inside lumen of doublet microtubules (DMTs) of cilia/flagella. TEKTIP1, a newly identified protein by cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), is proposed to be localized at the center of the tektin bundle and hypothesized to recruit tektins or stabilize the bundle. However, the physiological role of TEKTIP1 is unknown. In this study, we generated Tektip1-knockout (Tektip1(-/-)) mice and showed that they were male subfertile primarily due to reduced sperm motility. A high percentage of sperm from Tektip1(-/-) mice showed moderately disorganized axoneme structures and abnormal flagellar waveforms. TEKTIP1 predominately interacted with TEKT3 among tektins. Loss of TEKTIP1 partially disturbed the organization of tektin bundle by mainly affecting the native status of TEKT3 and its interaction with other tektins. Collectively, our study reveals the physiological role and potential molecular mechanism of TEKTIP1 in axonemal structure and sperm motility, highlights the importance of MIPs in stabilizing DMTs, and suggests a potential relevance of TEKTIP1 deficiency to human asthenospermia. Tektip1(-/-) mice will be an excellent animal model to study the DMT organization of sperm flagella using cryo-EM in future.
PXD045779	38450154	Mapping the substrate landscape of protein phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit PPP2CA. 	Mapping the substrate landscape of protein phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit PPP2CA	PP2A, PPP2CA, PROTAC, dTAG, kinase, phosphatase, phospho-proteomics, phosphorylation, substrate landscape, targeted protein degradation	Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is an essential Ser/Thr phosphatase. The PP2A holoenzyme complex comprises a scaffolding (A), regulatory (B), and catalytic (C) subunit, with PPP2CA being the principal catalytic subunit. The full scope of PP2A substrates in cells remains to be defined. To address this, we employed dTAG proteolysis-targeting chimeras to efficiently and selectively degrade dTAG-PPP2CA in homozygous knock-in HEK293 cells. Unbiased global phospho-proteomics identified 2,204 proteins with significantly increased phosphorylation upon dTAG-PPP2CA degradation, implicating them as potential PPP2CA substrates. A vast majority of these are novel. Bioinformatic analyses revealed involvement of the potential PPP2CA substrates in spliceosome function, cell cycle, RNA transport, and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. We identify a pSP/pTP motif as a predominant target for PPP2CA and confirm some of our phospho-proteomic data with immunoblotting. We provide an in-depth atlas of potential PPP2CA substrates and establish targeted degradation as a robust tool to unveil phosphatase substrates in cells.
PXD040487	38451719	Phase separation of SHP2E76K promotes malignant transformation of mesenchymal stem cells by activating mitochondrial complexes. 	The role of Ptpn11E76K in MSC fate determination	MSC, PTPN11	Mesenchymal stem cells, suffering from diverse gene hits, undergoes malignant transformation and aberrant osteochondral differentiation. Src homology region 2- (SH2-) containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP2), a non-receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase, regulates multicellular differentiation, proliferation, and transformation. However, the role of SHP2 in MSC fate determination remains unclear. Here, we showed that MSCs bearing the activating SHP2E76K mutation underwent malignant transformation into sarcoma stem-like cells (SSCs). We revealed that the SHP2E76K mutation in mouse MSCs led to hyperactive mitochondrial metabolism by activating mitochondrial complexes I and III. Inhibition of complexes I and III prevented hyperactive mitochondrial metabolism and malignant transformation of SHP2E76K MSCs. Mechanistically, we confirmed that SHP2 underwent liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) in SHP2E76K MSCs. SHP2 LLPS led to its dissociation from complexes I and III, causing their hyperactivation. Blockade of SHP2 LLPS by LLPS-defective mutations or allosteric inhibitors suppressed complex I and III hyperactivation as well as malignant transformation of SHP2E76K MSCs. These findings reveal that complex I and III hyperactivation driven by SHP2 LLPS promotes malignant transformation of SHP2E76K MSCs and suggest that inhibition of SHP2 LLPS could be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of activating SHP2-associated cancers.
PXD045634	38452210	Identification of G-quadruplex-interacting proteins in living cells using an artificial G4-targeting biotin ligase. 	Identification of G-quadruplex-interacting proteins in living cells using an artificial G4-targeting biotin ligase	G-qudraplex interacting	G-quadruplexes (G4s) are noncanonical nucleic acid structures pivotal to cellular processes and disease pathways. Deciphering G4-interacting proteins is imperative for unraveling G4's biological significance. In this study, we developed a G4-targeting biotin ligase named G4PID, meticulously assessing its binding affinity and specificity both in vitro and in vivo. Capitalizing on G4PID, we devised a tailored approach termed G-quadruplex-interacting proteins specific biotin-ligation procedure (PLGPB) to precisely profile G4-interacting proteins. Implementing this innovative strategy in live cells, we unveiled a cohort of 149 potential G4-interacting proteins, which exhibiting multifaceted functionalities. We then substantiate the directly binding affinity of 7 candidate G4-interacting-proteins (SF3B4, FBL, PP1G, BCL7C, NDUV1, ILF3, GAR1) in vitro. Remarkably, we verified that splicing factor 3B subunit 4 (SF3B4) binds preferentially to the G4-rich 3' splice site and the corresponding splicing sites are modulated by the G4 stabilizer PDS, indicating the regulating role of G4s in mRNA splicing procedure. The PLGPB strategy could biotinylate multiple proteins simultaneously, which providing an opportunity to map G4-interacting proteins network in living cells.
PXD048494	38452349	Deciphering the role of PGRMC2 in the human endometrium during the menstrual cycle and in vitro decidualization using an in vitro approach. 	Deciphering the role of PGRMC2 in the human endometrium during the menstrual cycle and in vitro decidualization using an in vitro approach	PGRMC2, decidualization, endometrial stromal cells, human endometrium, menstrual cycle, progesterone, progesterone receptor, transcriptomics	STUDY QUESTION: What is the human endometrial non-classical progesterone receptor (PGR) membrane component 2 (PGRMC2) expression pattern throughout the menstrual cycle and what role does it play during decidualization? SUMMARY ANSWER: Endometrial PGRMC2 expression fluctuates during the human menstrual cycle and is abundantly expressed in human endometrial stromal cells (hEnSCs) during in vitro decidualization, process where PGRMC2 is involved in embryo implantation-related pathways. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: The endometrial response to progesterone is mediated by the classical and non-classical PGRs. We previously demonstrated that PGR membrane component 1 (PGRMC1) is critical for endometrial function, embryo implantation, and future placentation, however, the role(s) of PGRMC2, which is structurally similar to PGRMC1, have not been studied in the human endometrium. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: This prospective study comprehensively evaluated the endometrial expression of PGRMC2 throughout the human menstrual cycle and during in vitro decidualization of hEnSCs (isolated from 77 endometrial biopsies that were collected from 66 oocyte donors), using immunohistochemistry, RT-qPCR, western blot, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses. In addition, functional analysis was carried out to validate the implication of PGRMC2 in hEnSCs during embryo invasion using an in vitro outgrowth model. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: In vitro decidualization of hEnSCs was induced using co-treatment with cAMP and medroxyprogesterone 17-acetate progestin, and evaluated by measuring prolactin by ELISA and F-actin immunostaining. RT-qPCR was employed to compare expression with other PGRs. To reveal the function of PGRMC2 during the decidualization process, we specifically knocked down PGRMC2 with siRNAs and performed RNA-seq and quantitative proteomics techniques (SWATH-MS). The common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and proteins (DEPs) were considered for downstream functional enrichment analysis. Finally, to verify its implication in the trophoblast invasion, an outgrowth model was carried out where hEnSCs with silenced PGRMC2 were co-cultured with human trophoblastic spheroids (JEG-3) following in vitro decidualization. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: In contrast to PGRMC1 and classical PGRs, endometrial PGRMC2 gene expression was significantly lower during the late- versus mid-secretory phase (P < 0.05). Accordingly, the elevated PGRMC2 protein abundance observed in the endometrial epithelial glands throughout the menstrual cycle dropped in the late secretory phase, when abundance decreased in all endometrial compartments. Nevertheless, PGRMC2 protein increased during the mid-secretory phase in stromal and glandular cells, and PGRMC2 mRNA (P < 0.0001) and protein (P < 0.001) levels were significantly enhanced in the membranes/organelles of decidualized hEnSCs, compared to non-decidualized hEnSCs. Notably, PGRMC1 and PGRMC2 mRNA were significantly more abundant than classical PGRs throughout menstrual cycle phases and in decidualized and non-decidualized hEnSCs (P < 0.05). RNA-seq and proteomics data revealed 4687 DEGs and 28 DEPs, respectively, in decidualized hEnSCs after PGRMC2 silencing. While functional enrichment analysis showed that the 2420 upregulated genes were mainly associated with endoplasmic reticulum function, vesicular transport, morphogenesis, angiogenesis, cell migration, and cell adhesion, the 2267 downregulated genes were associated with aerobic respiration and protein biosynthesis. The protein enrichment analysis showed that 4 upregulated and 24 downregulated proteins were related to aerobic respiration, cellular response, metabolism, localization of endoplasmic reticulum proteins, and ribonucleoside biosynthesis routes. Finally, PGRMC2 knockdown significantly compromised the ability of the decidualized hEnSCs to support trophoblast expansion in an outgrowth model (P < 0.05). LARGE-SCALE DATA: Transcriptomic data are available via NCBI's Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) under GEO Series accession number GSE251843 and proteomic data via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD048494. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The functional analyses were limited by the discrete number of human endometrial biopsies. A larger sample size is required to further investigate the potential role(s) of PGRMC2 during embryo implantation and maintenance of pregnancy. Further, the results obtained in the present work should be taken with caution, as the use of a pure primary endometrial stromal population differentiated in vitro does not fully represent the heterogeneity of the endometrium in vivo, nor the paracrine communications occurring between the distinct endometrial cell types. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: The repression of endometrial PGRMC2 during the late- versus mid-secretory phase, together with its overexpression during decidualization and multiple implications with embryo implantation not only highlighted the unknown roles of PGRMC2 in female reproduction but also the potential to exploit PGRMC2 signaling pathways to improve assisted reproduction treatments in the future. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): This research was funded by Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) granted to F.D. (PI20/00405 and PI23/00860), co-funded by the European Union. Y.M.-L. was supported by a predoctoral research grant from Generalitat Valenciana (ACIF/2019/262). R.G.-M. was supported by Generalitat Valenciana (CIAPOT/2022/15). P.d.C. was supported by a predoctoral grant for training in research into health (PFIS FI20/00086) from the Instituto de Salud Carlos III. I.D.-H. was supported by the Spanish Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities (FPU18/01550). A.P. was supported by the Instituto de Salud Carlos III (PFIS FI18/00009). This research was also supported by IVI Foundation-RMA Global (1911-FIVI-103-FD). The authors declare no conflict of interest.
PXD046742	38452766	Alternative splicing decouples local from global PRC2 activity. 	SUZ12 immunoprecipitation followed by PRM of SUZ12 peptides to identify alternatively spliced isoforms of SUZ12 at the protein level.	AS, ESCs, IP, PRC2, PRM., Polycomb, SUZ12, alternative splicing, exon, mESCs	The Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) mediates epigenetic maintenance of gene silencing in eukaryotes via methylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27). Accessory factors define two distinct subtypes, PRC2.1 and PRC2.2, with different actions and chromatin-targeting mechanisms. The mechanisms orchestrating PRC2 assembly are not fully understood. Here, we report that alternative splicing (AS) of PRC2 core component SUZ12 generates an uncharacterized isoform SUZ12-S, which co-exists with the canonical SUZ12-L isoform in virtually all tissues and developmental stages. SUZ12-S drives PRC2.1 formation and favors PRC2 dimerization. While SUZ12-S is necessary and sufficient for the repression of target genes via promoter-proximal H3K27me3 deposition, SUZ12-L maintains global H3K27 methylation levels. Mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) lacking either isoform exit pluripotency more slowly and fail to acquire neuronal cell identity. Our findings reveal a physiological mechanism regulating PRC2 assembly and higher-order interactions in eutherians, with impacts on H3K27 methylation and gene repression.
PXD046613	38454145	Network integration of thermal proteome profiling with multi-omics data decodes PARP inhibition. 	Phospho proteomic profiling of Olaparib in UWB1.289 cells	Olaparib, PARP, expression proteomics	Complex disease phenotypes often span multiple molecular processes. Functional characterization of these processes can shed light on disease mechanisms and drug effects. Thermal Proteome Profiling (TPP) is a mass-spectrometry (MS) based technique assessing changes in thermal protein stability that can serve as proxies of functional protein changes. These unique insights of TPP can complement those obtained by other omics technologies. Here, we show how TPP can be integrated with phosphoproteomics and transcriptomics in a network-based approach using COSMOS, a multi-omics integration framework, to provide an integrated view of transcription factors, kinases and proteins with altered thermal stability. This allowed us to recover consequences of Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibition in ovarian cancer cells on cell cycle and DNA damage response as well as interferon and hippo signaling. We found that TPP offers a complementary perspective to other omics data modalities, and that its integration allowed us to obtain a more complete molecular overview of PARP inhibition. We anticipate that this strategy can be used to integrate functional proteomics with other omics to study molecular processes.
PXD049225	38455734	Acetylome analyses provide novel insights into the effects of chronic intermittent hypoxia on hippocampus-dependent cognitive impairment. 	Changes in the hippocampal proteome of chronic intermittent hypoxia mice	Bioinformatic, Hippocampus, chronic intermittent hypoxia	Introduction: Chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) can negatively affect hippocampal function through various molecular mechanisms. Protein acetylation, a frequently occurring modification, plays crucial roles in synaptic plasticity and cognitive processes. However, the global protein acetylation induced by CIH in the hippocampus and its specific effects on hippocampal function and behavior remain poorly understood. Methods: To address this gap, we conducted a study using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to analyze the lysine acetylome and proteome of the hippocampus in healthy adult mice exposed to intermittent hypoxia for 4 weeks (as a CIH model) compared to normoxic mice (as a control). Results: We identified and quantified a total of 2,184 lysine acetylation sites in 1,007 proteins. Analysis of these acetylated proteins revealed disturbances primarily in oxidative phosphorylation, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and glycolysis, all of which are localized exclusively to mitochondria. Additionally, we observed significant changes in the abundance of 21 proteins, some of which are known to be associated with cognitive impairments. Discussion: This study helps to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying CIH-induced changes in protein acetylation in the hippocampus. By providing valuable insights into the pathophysiological processes associated with CIH and their impacts on hippocampal function, our findings contribute to a better understanding of the consequences of CIH-induced changes in protein acetylation in the hippocampus and the potential role of CIH in cognitive impairment.
PXD040802	38455972	The decreased astrocyte-microglia interaction reflects the early characteristics of Alzheimer's disease. 	Astrocyte-microglia interaction drives Abeta induced initial memory deficit	Alzheimers disease, mass-spectrum based proteomics, memory deficit, piriform cortex	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease often associated with olfactory dysfunction. Abeta is a typical AD hall marker, but Abeta-induced molecular alterations in olfactory memory remain unclear. In this study, we used a 5xFAD mouse model to investigate Abeta-induced olfactory changes. Results showed that 4-month-old 5xFAD have olfactory memory impairment accompanied by piriform cortex neuron activity decline and no sound or working memory impairment. In addition, synapse and glia functional alteration is consistent across different ages at the proteomic level. Microglia and astrocyte specific proteins showed strong interactions in the conserved co-expression network module. Moreover, this interaction declines only in mild cognitive impairment patients in human postmortem brain proteomic data. This suggests that astrocytes-microglia interaction may play a leading role in the early stage of Abeta-induced olfactory memory impairment, and the decreasing of their synergy may accelerate the neurodegeneration.
PXD035635	38457355	Epigenetic control over cell-intrinsic immune response antagonizes self-renewal in acute myeloid leukemia. 	Epigenetic Control over IFN Type-I Response antagonizes self-renewal in acute myeloid leukemia	AML, ATRA, PHF8, Phosphoproteome	Epigenetic modulation of the cell-intrinsic immune response holds promise as a therapeutic approach for leukemia. However, current strategies designed for transcriptional activation of endogenous transposons and subsequent interferon type-I (IFN-I) response, show limited clinical efficacy. Histone lysine methylation is an epigenetic signature in IFN-I response associated with suppression of IFN-I and IFN stimulated genes, suggesting histone demethylation as key mechanism of reactivation. In this study, we unveil the histone demethylase PHF8 as a direct initiator and regulator of cell-intrinsic immune response in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Site-specific phosphorylation of PHF8 orchestrates epigenetic changes that upregulate cytosolic RNA sensors, particularly the TRIM25-RIG-I-IFIT5 axis, thereby triggering the cellular IFN-I response-differentiation-apoptosis network. This signaling cascade largely counteracts differentiation block and growth of human AML cells across various disease subtypes in vitro and in vivo. Through proteome analysis of over 200 primary AML bone marrow samples, we identify a distinct PHF8/IFN-I signature in half of the patient population, without significant associations with known clinically or genetically defined AML subgroups. This profile was absent in healthy CD34-positive hematopoietic progenitor cells, suggesting therapeutic applicability in a large fraction of AML patients. Pharmacological support of PHF8 phosphorylation significantly impairs growth of primary AML patient samples. These findings provide novel opportunities for harnessing the cell-intrinsic immune response in the development of immunotherapeutic strategies against AML.
PXD047510	38458256	Gut microbiome-derived bacterial extracellular vesicles in patients with solid tumours. 	Gut microbiome-derived bacterial extracellular vesicles in patients with solid tumours	Bacterial extracellular vesicles, Gut microbiome, Solid tumour	INTRODUCTION: Gut microbiome-derived nanoparticles, known as bacterial extracellular vesicles (bEVs), have garnered interest as promising tools for studying the link between the gut microbiome and human health. The diverse composition of bEVs, including their proteins, mRNAs, metabolites, and lipids, makes them useful for investigating diseases such as cancer. However, conventional approaches for studying gut microbiome composition alone may not be accurate in deciphering host-gut microbiome communication. In clinical microbiome research, there is a gap in the knowledge on the role of bEVs in solid tumor patients. OBJECTIVES: Analyzing the functionality of bEVs using (meta)genomics and proteomics could highlight the unique aspects of host-gut microbiome interactions in solid tumor patients. Therefore, we performed a comparative analysis of the proteome and microbiota composition of gut microbiome-derived bEVs isolated from patients with solid tumors and healthy controls. METHODS: After isolating bEVs from the feces of solid tumor patients and healthy controls, we performed spectrometry analysis of their proteomes and next-generation sequencing (NGS) of the 16S gene. We also investigated the gut microbiomes of feces from patients and controls using 16S sequencing and machine learning to classify the samples into patients and controls based on their bEVs and fecal microbiomes. RESULTS: Solid tumor patients showed decreased microbiota richness and diversity in both the bEVs and feces. However, the bEV proteomes were more diverse in patients than in the controls and were enriched with proteins associated with the metabolism of amino acids and carbohydrates, nucleotide binding, and oxidoreductase activity. Metadata classification of samples was more accurate using fecal bEVs (100%) compared with fecal samples (93%). CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that bEVs are unique functional entities. There is a need to explore bEVs together with conventional gut microbiome analysis in functional cancer research to decipher the potential of bEVs as cancer diagnostic or therapeutic biomarkers.
PXD043195	38458396	Common and varied molecular responses of Escherichia coli to five different inhibitors of the lipopolysaccharide biosynthetic enzyme LpxC. 	Same same but different - The global response of Escherichia coli to five different LpxC inhibitors	FtsH, LPS, Outer membrane, antibiotics, lipopolysaccharide, phospholipid	A promising yet clinically unexploited antibiotic target in difficult-to-treat Gram-negative bacteria is LpxC, the key enzyme in the biosynthesis of lipopolysaccharides (LPS), which are the major constituents of the outer membrane. Despite the development of dozens of chemically diverse LpxC inhibitor molecules, it is essentially unknown how bacteria counteract LpxC inhibition. Our study provides comprehensive insights into the response against five different LpxC inhibitors. All compounds bound to purified LpxC from Escherichia coli. Treatment of E. coli with these compounds changed the cell shape and stabilized LpxC suggesting that FtsH-mediated proteolysis of the inactivated enzyme is impaired. LpxC inhibition sensitized E. coli to vancomycin and rifampin, which poorly cross the outer membrane of intact cells. Four of the five compounds led to an accumulation of lyso-PE, a cleavage product of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), generated by the phospholipase PldA. The combined results suggested an imbalance in LPS and phospholipid (PL) biosynthesis, which was corroborated by the global proteome response to treatment with the LpxC inhibitors. Apart from LpxC itself, FabA and FabB responsible for the biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, were consistently induced. Upregulated compound-specific proteins are involved in various functional categories, such as stress reactions, nucleotide or amino acid metabolism and quorum sensing. Our work shows that antibiotics targeting the same enzyme do not necessarily elicit identical cellular responses. Moreover, we find that the response of E. coli to LpxC inhibition is distinct from the previously reported response in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
PXD047169	38458566	Mustn1 is a smooth muscle cell-secreted microprotein that modulates skeletal muscle extracellular matrix composition. 	Mustn1 is a smooth muscle cell-secreted micropeptide that modulates skeletal muscle extracellular matrix composition	extracellular matrix, skeletal muscle	OBJECTIVE: Skeletal muscle plasticity and remodeling are critical for adapting tissue function to use, disuse, and regeneration. The aim of this study was to identify genes and molecular pathways that regulate the transition from atrophy to compensatory hypertrophy or recovery from injury. Here, we have used a mouse model of hindlimb unloading and reloading, which causes skeletal muscle atrophy, and compensatory regeneration and hypertrophy, respectively. METHODS: We analyzed mouse skeletal muscle at the transition from hindlimb unloading to reloading for changes in transcriptome and extracellular fluid proteome. We then used qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data to determine Mustn1 gene and protein expression, including changes in gene expression in mouse and human skeletal muscle with different challenges such as exercise and muscle injury. We generated Mustn1-deficient genetic mouse models and characterized them in vivo and ex vivo with regard to muscle function and whole-body metabolism. We isolated smooth muscle cells and functionally characterized them, and performed transcriptomics and proteomics analysis of skeletal muscle and aorta of Mustn1-deficient mice. RESULTS: We show that Mustn1 (Musculoskeletal embryonic nuclear protein 1, also known as Mustang) is highly expressed in skeletal muscle during the early stages of hindlimb reloading. Mustn1 expression is transiently elevated in mouse and human skeletal muscle in response to intense exercise, resistance exercise, or injury. We find that Mustn1 expression is highest in smooth muscle-rich tissues, followed by skeletal muscle fibers. Muscle from heterozygous Mustn1-deficient mice exhibit differences in gene expression related to extracellular matrix and cell adhesion, compared to wild-type littermates. Mustn1-deficient mice have normal muscle and aorta function and whole-body glucose metabolism. Loss of Mustn1 in vascular smooth muscle cells does not affect their proliferative or migratory functions. We show that Mustn1 can be secreted from smooth muscle cells, and that it is present in arterioles of the muscle microvasculature and in muscle extracellular fluid, particularly during the hindlimb reloading phase. Proteomics analysis of muscle from Mustn1-deficient mice confirms differences in extracellular matrix composition, and female mice display higher collagen content after chemically induced muscle injury compared to wild-type littermates. CONCLUSIONS: We show that, in addition to its previously reported intracellular localization, Mustn1 is a microprotein secreted from smooth muscle cells into the muscle extracellular space. We explore its role in muscle ECM deposition and remodeling in homeostasis and upon muscle injury. The role of Mustn1 in fibrosis and immune infiltration upon muscle injury and dystrophies remains to be investigated, as does its potential for therapeutic interventions.
PXD044297	38458638	Hybrid epithelial-mesenchymal status of lung cancer dictates metastatic success through differential interaction with NK cells. 	Hybrid Epithelial-Mesenchymal status of lung cancer dictates metastatic success through differential interaction with NK cells	Cancer Initiating Cell, Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition, Natural killer	BACKGROUND: Epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) endows cancer cells with pro-metastatic properties, which appear most effective when cells enter an intermediate hybrid (H) state, characterized by integrated mesenchymal (M) and epithelial (E) traits. The reasons for this advantage are poorly known and, especially, it is totally unexplored whether the interplay between H-cells and NK cells could have a role. Here we characterize the pro-metastatic mechanics of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) H-cells and their subset of cancer-initiating cells (CICs), dissecting crucial interactions with NK cells. METHODS: Human lung cancer cell lines and sublines representative of E, M, or H states, assessed by proteomics, were analyzed in vivo for their tumor-forming and disseminating capabilities. Interactions with NK cells were investigated in vitro using migration assays, cytotoxic degranulation assays, and evaluation of CD133+ CICs modulation after coculture, and validated in vivo through NK cell neutralization assays. Correlation between EMT status, NK cell infiltration, and survival data, was evaluated in a cohort of surgically resected NSCLC cases (n=79). RESULTS: We demonstrated that H-cells, have limited dissemination capability but show the highest potential to initiate metastases in vivo. This property was related to their ability to escape NK cell surveillance. Mechanistically, H-cells expressed low levels of NK-attracting chemokines (CXCL1 and CXCL8), generating poorly infiltrated metastases. Accordingly, proteomics and GO enrichment analysis of E, H, M cell lines showed that the related secretory processes could change during EMT.Furthermore, H-CICs uniquely expressed high levels of the inhibitory ligand B7-H3, which protected H-CIC from NK cell-mediated clearance. In vivo neutralization assays confirmed that, indeed, the pro-metastatic properties of H-cells are poorly controlled by NK cells.Finally, the analysis of patients revealed that detection of hybrid phenotypes associated with low NK infiltration in NSCLC clinical specimens could identify a subset of patients with poor prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that H-cells play a central role in the metastatic spread in NSCLC. Such pro-metastatic advantage of H-cells is supported by their altered interaction with NK cells and by the critical role of B7-H3 in preserving their H-CIC component, indicating B7-H3 as a potential target in combined NK-based therapies.
PXD048977	38459032	Non-coding autoimmune risk variant defines role for ICOS in T peripheral helper cell development. 	Non-coding autoimmune risk variant defines role for ICOS in T peripheral helper cell development	Jurkat	Fine-mapping and functional studies implicate rs117701653, a non-coding single nucleotide polymorphism in the CD28/CTLA4/ICOS locus, as a risk variant for rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes. Here, using DNA pulldown, mass spectrometry, genome editing and eQTL analysis, we establish that the disease-associated risk allele is functional, reducing affinity for the inhibitory chromosomal regulator SMCHD1 to enhance expression of inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS) in memory CD4(+) T cells from healthy donors. Higher ICOS expression is paralleled by an increase in circulating T peripheral helper (Tph) cells and, in rheumatoid arthritis patients, of blood and joint fluid Tph cells as well as circulating plasmablasts. Correspondingly, ICOS ligation and carriage of the rs117701653 risk allele accelerate T cell differentiation into CXCR5(-)PD-1(high) Tph cells producing IL-21 and CXCL13. Thus, mechanistic dissection of a functional non-coding variant in human autoimmunity discloses a previously undefined pathway through which ICOS regulates Tph development and abundance.
PXD038831	38459051	Copine proteins are required for brassinosteroid signaling in maize and Arabidopsis. 	Phosphorylated 4D-Label-free quantitative proteome	phosphoprotemic	Copine proteins are highly conserved and ubiquitously found in eukaryotes, and their indispensable roles in different species were proposed. However, their exact function remains unclear. The phytohormone brassinosteroids (BRs) play vital roles in plant growth, development and environmental responses. A key event in effective BR signaling is the formation of functional BRI1-SERK receptor complex and subsequent transphosphorylation upon ligand binding. Here, we demonstrate that BONZAI (BON) proteins, which are plasma membrane-associated copine proteins, are critical components of BR signaling in both the monocot maize and the dicot Arabidopsis. Biochemical and molecular analyses reveal that BON proteins directly interact with SERK kinases, thereby ensuring effective BRI1-SERK interaction and transphosphorylation. This study advances the knowledge on BR signaling and provides an important target for optimizing valuable agronomic traits, it also opens a way to study steroid hormone signaling and copine proteins of eukaryotes in a broader perspective.
PXD045960	38459197	Proteomic analysis of serum extracellular vesicles from biliary tract infection patients to identify novel biomarkers. 	Proteomic analysis of serum extracellular vesicles from biliary tract infection patients to identify novel biomarkers	Biliary tract infection, CEACAM1, CRB3, Extracellular vesicles	Biliary tract infection (BTI), a commonly occurring abdominal disease, despite being extensively studied for its initiation and underlying mechanisms, continues to pose a challenge in the quest for identifying specific diagnostic biomarkers. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), which emanate from diverse cell types, serve as minute biological entities that mirror unique physiological or pathological conditions. Despite their potential, there has been a relatively restricted exploration of EV-oriented methodologies for diagnosing BTI. To uncover potent protein biomarkers for BTI patients, we applied a label-free quantitative proteomic method known for its unbiased and high-throughput nature. Furthermore, 192 differentially expressed proteins surfaced within EVs isolated from individuals afflicted with BTI. Subsequent GO and KEGG analyses pinpointed Carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 1 (CEACAM1) and Crumbs homolog 3 (CRB3) as noteworthy biomarkers. Validation via data analysis of plasma-derived EV samples confirmed their specificity to BTI. Our study leveraged an unbiased proteomic tool to unveil CEACAM1 and CRB3 as promising protein biomarkers in serum EVs, presenting potential avenues for the advancement of diagnostic systems for BTI detection.
PXD045844	38459766	Sex differences in single neuron function and proteomics profiles examined by patch-clamp and mass spectrometry in the locus coeruleus of the adult mouse. 	Sex Differences in Single Neuron Function and Proteomics Profiles Examined by Patch-Clamp and Mass Spectrometry in the Locus Coeruleus of the Adult Mouse	Noradrenergic neurons, locus coeruleus, neuronal excitability, sex-differences, single-cell proteomics	AIMS: This study aimed to characterize the properties of locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons in male and female mice. We also sought to investigate sex-specific differences in membrane properties, action potential generation, and protein expression profiles to understand the mechanisms underlying neuronal excitability variations. METHODS: Utilizing a genetic mouse model by crossing Dbhcre knock-in mice with tdTomato Ai14 transgenic mice, LC neurons were identified using fluorescence microscopy. Neuronal functional properties were assessed using patch-clamp recordings. Proteomic analyses of individual LC neuron soma was conducted using mass spectrometry to discern protein expression profiles. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD045844. RESULTS: Female LC noradrenergic neurons displayed greater membrane capacitance than those in male mice. Male LC neurons demonstrated greater spontaneous and evoked action potential generation compared to females. Male LC neurons exhibited a lower rheobase and achieved higher peak frequencies with similar current injections. Proteomic analysis revealed differences in protein expression profiles between sexes, with male mice displaying a notably larger unique protein set compared to females. Notably, pathways pertinent to protein synthesis, degradation, and recycling, such as EIF2 and glucocorticoid receptor signaling, showed reduced expression in females. CONCLUSIONS: Male LC noradrenergic neurons exhibit higher intrinsic excitability compared to those from females. The discernible sex-based differences in excitability could be ascribed to varying protein expression profiles, especially within pathways that regulate protein synthesis and degradation. This study lays the groundwork for future studies focusing on the interplay between proteomics and neuronal function examined in individual cells.
PXD046481	38461208	Molecular mechanism of siderophore regulation by the Pseudomonas aeruginosa BfmRS two-component system in response to osmotic stress. 	The two component system BfmRS controls siderophore production in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, high osmolality, siderophore regulation, two-component system	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a common nosocomial pathogen, relies on siderophores to acquire iron, crucial for its survival in various environments and during host infections. However, understanding the molecular mechanisms of siderophore regulation remains incomplete. In this study, we found that the BfmRS two-component system, previously associated with biofilm formation and quorum sensing, is essential for siderophore regulation under high osmolality stress. Activated BfmR directly bound to the promoter regions of pvd, fpv, and femARI gene clusters, thereby activating their transcription and promoting siderophore production. Subsequent proteomic and phenotypic analyses confirmed that deletion of BfmRS reduces siderophore-related proteins and impairs bacterial survival in iron-deficient conditions. Furthermore, phylogenetic analysis demonstrated the high conservation of the BfmRS system across Pseudomonas species, functional evidences also indicated that BfmR homologues from Pseudomonas putida KT2440 and Pseudomonas sp. MRSN12121 could bind to the promoter regions of key siderophore genes and osmolality-mediated increases in siderophore production were observed. This work illuminates a novel signaling pathway for siderophore regulation and enhances our understanding of siderophore-mediated bacterial interactions and community establishment.
PXD049467	38461299	Mi-2beta promotes immune evasion in melanoma by activating EZH2 methylation. 	Mi-2beta promotes immune evasion in melanoma by activating EZH2 methylation	CHD4, EZH2	Recent development of new immune checkpoint inhibitors has been particularly successfully in cancer treatment, but still the majority patients fail to benefit. Converting resistant tumors to immunotherapy sensitive will provide a significant improvement in patient outcome. Here we identify Mi-2beta as a key melanoma-intrinsic effector regulating the adaptive anti-tumor immune response. Studies in genetically engineered mouse melanoma models indicate that loss of Mi-2beta rescues the immune response to immunotherapy in vivo. Mechanistically, ATAC-seq analysis shows that Mi-2beta controls the accessibility of IFN-gamma-stimulated genes (ISGs). Mi-2beta binds to EZH2 and promotes K510 methylation of EZH2, subsequently activating the trimethylation of H3K27 to inhibit the transcription of ISGs. Finally, we develop an Mi-2beta-targeted inhibitor, Z36-MP5, which reduces Mi-2beta ATPase activity and reactivates ISG transcription. Consequently, Z36-MP5 induces a response to immune checkpoint inhibitors in otherwise resistant melanoma models. Our work provides a potential therapeutic strategy to convert immunotherapy resistant melanomas to sensitive ones.
PXD042447	38461359	Prenatal delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol exposure alters fetal neurodevelopment in rhesus macaques. 	Prenatal delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol Exposure is Associated with Altered Fetal Neurodevelopment in Rhesus Macaques	cannabis, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, fetal brain, isobaric labeling, neurodevelopment, pregnancy, quantitative proteomics, rhesus macaque	Prenatal cannabis use is associated with adverse offspring neurodevelopmental outcomes, however the underlying mechanisms are relatively unknown. We sought to determine the impact of chronic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) exposure on fetal neurodevelopment in a rhesus macaque model using advanced imaging combined with molecular and tissue studies. Animals were divided into two groups, control (n = 5) and THC-exposed (n = 5), which received a daily THC edible pre-conception and throughout pregnancy. Fetal T2-weighted MRI was performed at gestational days 85 (G85), G110, G135 and G155 to assess volumetric brain development. At G155, animals underwent cesarean delivery with collection of fetal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for microRNA (miRNA) studies and fetal tissue for histologic analysis. THC exposure was associated with significant age by sex interactions in brain growth, and differences in fetal brain histology suggestive of brain dysregulation. Two extracellular vesicle associated-miRNAs were identified in THC-exposed fetal CSF; pathway analysis suggests that these miRNAs are associated with dysregulated axonal guidance and netrin signaling. This data is indicative of subtle molecular changes consistent with the observed histological data, suggesting a potential role for fetal miRNA regulation by THC. Further studies are needed to determine whether these adverse findings correlate with long-term offspring neurodevelopmental health.
PXD043883	38462603	Targeting vulnerable microcircuits in the ventral hippocampus of male transgenic mice to rescue Alzheimer-like social memory loss. 	Targeting vulnerable microcircuit in the ventral hippocampus of male transgenic mice to rescue Alzheimer-like social memory loss	Alzheimers disease, Social memory, TFEB, Tau protein, Ursolic acid, Ventral hippocampus	BACKGROUND: Episodic memory loss is a prominent clinical manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is closely related to tau pathology and hippocampal impairment. Due to the heterogeneity of brain neurons, the specific roles of different brain neurons in terms of their sensitivity to tau accumulation and their contribution to AD-like social memory loss remain unclear. Therefore, further investigation is necessary. METHODS: We investigated the effects of AD-like tau pathology by Tandem mass tag proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis, social behavioural tests, hippocampal electrophysiology, immunofluorescence staining and in vivo optical fibre recording of GCaMP6f and iGABASnFR. Additionally, we utilized optogenetics and administered ursolic acid (UA) via oral gavage to examine the effects of these agents on social memory in mice. RESULTS: The results of proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses revealed the characteristics of ventral hippocampal CA1 (vCA1) under both physiological conditions and AD-like tau pathology. As tau progressively accumulated, vCA1, especially its excitatory and parvalbumin (PV) neurons, were fully filled with mislocated and phosphorylated tau (p-Tau). This finding was not observed for dorsal hippocampal CA1 (dCA1). The overexpression of human tau (hTau) in excitatory and PV neurons mimicked AD-like tau accumulation, significantly inhibited neuronal excitability and suppressed distinct discrimination-associated firings of these neurons within vCA1. Photoactivating excitatory and PV neurons in vCA1 at specific rhythms and time windows efficiently ameliorated tau-impaired social memory. Notably, 1 month of UA administration efficiently decreased tau accumulation via autophagy in a transcription factor EB (TFEB)-dependent manner and restored the vCA1 microcircuit to ameliorate tau-impaired social memory. CONCLUSION: This study elucidated distinct protein and phosphoprotein networks between dCA1 and vCA1 and highlighted the susceptibility of the vCA1 microcircuit to AD-like tau accumulation. Notably, our novel findings regarding the efficacy of UA in reducing tau load and targeting the vCA1 microcircuit may provide a promising strategy for treating AD in the future.
PXD050014	38463952	O-GlcNAcylation of FOXK1 orchestrates the E2F pathway and promotes oncogenesis. 	O-GlcNAcylation of FOXK1 orchestrates the E2F pathway	E2F pathway, FOXK1, O-GlcNAcylation	Gene transcription is a highly regulated process, and deregulation of transcription factors activity underlies numerous pathologies including cancer. Albeit near four decades of studies have established that the E2F pathway is a core transcriptional network that govern cell division in multi-cellular organisms (1,2) , the molecular mechanisms that underlie the functions of E2F transcription factors remain incompletely understood. FOXK1 and FOXK2 transcription factors have recently emerged as important regulators of cell metabolism, autophagy and cell differentiation (3-6) . While both FOXK1 and FOXK2 interact with the histone H2AK119ub deubiquitinase BAP1 and possess many overlapping functions in normal biology, their specific functions as well as deregulation of their transcriptional activity in cancer is less clear and sometimes contradictory (7-13) . Here, we show that elevated expression of FOXK1, but not FOXK2, in primary normal cells promotes transcription of E2F target genes associated with increased proliferation and delayed entry into cellular senescence. FOXK1 expressing cells are highly prone to cellular transformation revealing important oncogenic properties of FOXK1 in tumor initiation. High expression of FOXK1 in patient tumors is also highly correlated with E2F gene expression. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that FOXK1, but not FOXK2, is specifically modified by O-GlcNAcylation. FOXK1 O-GlcNAcylation is modulated during the cell cycle with the highest levels occurring during the time of E2F pathway activation at G1/S. Moreover, loss of FOXK1 O-GlcNAcylation impairs FOXK1 ability to promote cell proliferation, cellular transformation and tumor growth. Mechanistically, expression of FOXK1 O-GlcNAcylation-defective mutants results in reduced recruitment of BAP1 to gene regulatory regions. This event is associated with a concomitant increase in the levels of histone H2AK119ub and a decrease in the levels of H3K4me1, resulting in a transcriptional repressive chromatin environment. Our results define an essential role of O-GlcNAcylation in modulating the functions of FOXK1 in controlling the cell cycle of normal and cancer cells through orchestration of the E2F pathway.
PXD046163	38466226	Evidence for an RNAi-independent role of Arabidopsis DICER-LIKE2 in growth inhibition and basal antiviral resistance. 	Evidence for an RNAi-independent role of DICER-LIKE2 in conferring growth inhibition and basal antiviral resistance	DCL2	Flowering plant genomes encode four or five DICER-LIKE (DCL) enzymes that produce small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs which function in RNA interference (RNAi). Different RNAi pathways in plants effect transposon silencing, antiviral defense and endogenous gene regulation. DCL2 acts genetically redundantly with DCL4 to confer basal antiviral defense. However, DCL2 may also counteract DCL4, since knockout of DCL4 causes growth defects that are suppressed by DCL2 inactivation. Current models maintain that RNAi via DCL2-dependent siRNAs is the biochemical basis of both effects. Here, we report that DCL2-mediated antiviral resistance and growth defects cannot be explained by the silencing effects of DCL2-dependent siRNAs. Both functions are defective in genetic backgrounds that maintain high levels of DCL2-dependent siRNAs, either with specific point mutations in DCL2 or with reduced DCL2 dosage because of heterozygosity for dcl2 knockout alleles. Intriguingly, all DCL2 functions require its catalytic activity, and the penetrance of DCL2-dependent growth phenotypes in dcl4 mutants correlates with DCL2 protein levels, but not with levels of major DCL2-dependent siRNAs. We discuss this requirement and correlation with catalytic activity, but not with resulting siRNAs, in light of other findings that reveal a DCL2 function in innate immunity activation triggered by cytoplasmic double-stranded RNA.
PXD050426	38466231	Uncovering PROTAC Sensitivity and Efficacy by Multidimensional Proteome Profiling: A Case for STAT3. 	Multiplexed Proteome Profiling of Targeted Protein Degradation With Data-Independent Acquisition-Based Mass Spectrometry	Data-independent Acquisition, Drug sensitivity, Mass spectrometry-based Proteomics, Targeted protein degradation	Proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) is a powerful technology that can effectively trigger the degradation of target proteins. The intricate interplay among various factors leads to a heterogeneous drug response, bringing about significant challenges in comprehending drug mechanisms. Our study applied data-independent acquisition-based mass spectrometry to multidimensional proteome profiling of PROTAC (DIA-MPP) to uncover the efficacy and sensitivity of the PROTAC compound. We profiled the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) PROTAC degrader in six leukemia and lymphoma cell lines under multiple conditions, demonstrating the pharmacodynamic properties and downstream biological responses. Through comparison between sensitive and insensitive cell lines, we revealed that STAT1 can be regarded as a biomarker for STAT3 PROTAC degrader, which was validated in cells, patient-derived organoids, and mouse models. These results set an example for a comprehensive description of the multidimensional PROTAC pharmacodynamic response and PROTAC drug sensitivity biomarker exploration.
PXD040313	38466804	The novel ATR inhibitor M1774 induces replication protein overexpression and broad synergy with DNA-targeted anticancer drugs. 	Total and phosphoproteome analysis of effects of topoisomerase 1 and ATR inhibitors in small cell lung cancer nuclei	ATR inhibitor, M1774, SN-38, small cell lunch cancer, topoisomerase 1 inhibitor	Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) checkpoint kinase inhibitors are in clinical trials. Here we explored the molecular pharmacology and therapeutic combination strategies of the oral ATR inhibitor M1774 (Tuvusertib) with DNA damaging agents (DDAs). As single agent, M1774 suppressed cancer cell viability at nanomolar concentrations, showing greater activity than ceralasertib and berzosertib, but less potency than gartisertib and elimusertib in the small-cell lung cancer H146, H82, and DMS114 cell lines. M1774 also efficiently blocked the activation of the ATR-CHK1 checkpoint pathway caused by replication stress induced by TOP1 inhibitors. Combination with non-toxic dose of M1774 enhanced TOP1 inhibitor-induced cancer cell death by enabling unscheduled replication upon replicative damage, thereby increasing genome instability. Tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics uncovered that M1774, in the presence of DDA, forces the expression of proteins activating replication (CDC45) and G2/M-progression (PLK1 and CCNB1). In particular, the fork protection complex proteins (TIMELESS and TIPIN) were enriched. Low dose of M1774 was found highly synergistic with a broad spectrum of clinical DDAs including TOP1 inhibitors (SN-38/irinotecan, topotecan, exatecan, and exatecan), the TOP2 inhibitor etoposide, cisplatin, the RNA polymerase II inhibitor lurbinectedin, and the PARP inhibitor talazoparib in various models including cancer cell lines, patient-derived organoids, and mouse xenograft models. Furthermore, we demonstrate that M1774 reverses chemoresistance to anticancer DDAs in cancer cells lacking SLFN11 expression, suggesting that SLFN11 can be utilized for patient selection in upcoming clinical trials.
PXD047634	38467335	Identification of structural origins of complex charge heterogeneity in therapeutic ACE2Fc fusion protein facilitated by free-flow isoelectric focusing. 	Identification of structural origins of complex charge heterogeneity in ACE2Fc fusion protein facilitated by free-flow isoelectric focusing	Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2, charge heterogeneity, free-flow electrophoresis (FFE), fusion protein, glycosylation, isoelectric focusing (IEF), sialylation	Fc Fusion protein represents a versatile molecular platform with considerable potential as protein therapeutics of which the charge heterogeneity should be well characterized according to regulatory guidelines. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 Fc fusion protein (ACE2Fc) has been investigated as a potential neutralizing agent to various coronaviruses, including the lingering SARS-CoV-2, as this coronavirus must bind to ACE2 to allow for its entry into host cells. ACE2Fc, an investigational new drug developed by Henlius (Shanghai China), has passed the Phase I clinical trial, but its huge amount of charge isoforms and complicated charge heterogeneity posed a challenge to charge variant investigation in pharmaceutical development. We employed offline free-flow isoelectric focusing (FF-IEF) fractionation, followed by detailed characterization of enriched ACE2Fc fractions, to unveil the structural origins of charge heterogeneity in ACE2Fc expressed by recombinant CHO cells. We adopted a well-tuned 3-component separation medium for ACE2Fc fractionation, the highest allowable voltage to maximize the FF-IEF separation window and a mild Protein A elution method for preservation of protein structural integrity. Through peptide mapping and other characterizations, we revealed that the intricate profiles of ACE2Fc charge heterogeneity are mainly caused by highly sialylated multi-antenna N-glycosylation. In addition, based on fraction characterization and in silico glycoprotein model analysis, we discovered that the large acidic glycans at N36, N73, and N305 of ACE2Fc were able to decrease the binding activity towards Spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2. Our study exemplifies the value of FF-IEF in highly complex fusion protein characterization and revealed a quantitative sialylation-activity relationship in ACE2Fc.
PXD042929	38467605	PCDHA9 as a candidate gene for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	Functional identification of protocadherin alpha 9 (PCDHA9) as a candidate causative gene for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	GO analysis., PCDHA9, mouse spinal cord	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease. To identify additional genetic factors, we analyzed exome sequences in a large cohort of Chinese ALS patients and found a homozygous variant (p.L700P) in PCDHA9 in three unrelated patients. We generated Pcdhalpha9 mutant mice harboring either orthologous point mutation or deletion mutation. These mice develop progressive spinal motor loss, muscle atrophy, and structural/functional abnormalities of the neuromuscular junction, leading to paralysis and early lethality. TDP-43 pathology is detected in the spinal motor neurons of aged mutant mice. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that Pcdha9 mutation causes aberrant activation of FAK and PYK2 in aging spinal cord, and dramatically reduced NKA-alpha1 expression in motor neurons. Our single nucleus multi-omics analysis reveals disturbed signaling involved in cell adhesion, ion transport, synapse organization, and neuronal survival in aged mutant mice. Together, our results present PCDHA9 as a potential ALS gene and provide insights into its pathogenesis.
PXD042710	38467609	Genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screen shows that loss of GET4 increases mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum contact sites and is neuroprotective. 	Genome-Wide CRISPR/Cas9 Screen shows that inhibiting GET4 is neuroprotective and increases mitochondrial-endoplasmic reticulum contact sites	IP-mass spectrometry, Mitochondrial-ER contact site, neuroprotection	Organelles form membrane contact sites between each other, allowing for the transfer of molecules and signals. Mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum (ER) contact sites (MERCS) are cellular subdomains characterized by close apposition of mitochondria and ER membranes. They have been implicated in many diseases, including neurodegenerative, metabolic, and cardiac diseases. Although MERCS have been extensively studied, much remains to be explored. To uncover novel regulators of MERCS, we conducted a genome-wide, flow cytometry-based screen using an engineered MERCS reporter cell line. We found 410 genes whose downregulation promotes MERCS and 230 genes whose downregulation decreases MERCS. From these, 29 genes were selected from each population for arrayed screening and 25 were validated from the high population and 13 from the low population. GET4 and BAG6 were highlighted as the top 2 genes that upon suppression increased MERCS from both the pooled and arrayed screens, and these were subjected to further investigation. Multiple microscopy analyses confirmed that loss of GET4 or BAG6 increased MERCS. GET4 and BAG6 were also observed to interact with the known MERCS proteins, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R) and glucose-regulated protein 75 (GRP75). In addition, we found that loss of GET4 increased mitochondrial calcium uptake upon ER-Ca(2+) release and mitochondrial respiration. Finally, we show that loss of GET4 rescues motor ability, improves lifespan and prevents neurodegeneration in a Drosophila model of Alzheimer's disease (Abeta42Arc). Together, these results suggest that GET4 is involved in decreasing MERCS and that its loss is neuroprotective.
PXD041386	38467653	Simultaneous proteome localization and turnover analysis reveals spatiotemporal features of protein homeostasis disruptions. 	Simultaneous proteome localization and turnover analysis of cardiomyocytes under proteasome inhibition	cardiotoxicity, caridomyocyte, iPSC, spatial proteomics, turnover	The spatial and temporal distributions of proteins are critical to protein function, but cannot be directly assessed by measuring protein bundance. Here we describe a mass spectrometry-based proteomics strategy, Simultaneous Proteome Localization and Turnover (SPLAT), to measure concurrently protein turnover rates and subcellular localization in the same experiment. Applying the method, we find that unfolded protein response (UPR) has different effects on protein turnover dependent on their subcellular location in human AC16 cells, with proteome-wide slowdown but acceleration among stress response proteins in the ER and Golgi. In parallel, UPR triggers broad differential localization of proteins including RNA-binding proteins and amino acid transporters. Moreover, we observe newly synthesized proteins including EGFR that show a differential localization under stress than the existing protein pools, reminiscent of protein trafficking disruptions. We next applied SPLAT to an induced pluripotent stem cell derived cardiomyocyte (iPSC-CM) model of cancer drug cardiotoxicity upon treatment with the proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib. Paradoxically, carfilzomib has little effect on global average protein half-life, but may instead selectively disrupt sarcomere protein homeostasis. This study provides a view into the interactions of protein spatial and temporal dynamics and demonstrates a method to examine protein homeostasis regulations in stress and drug response.
PXD042565	38468318	In-depth proteome characterization of endometrium and extraembryonic membranes during implantation in pig. 	In-depth proteome characterization of endometrium and extraembryonic membranes during implantation in pig	Sus Scrofa, endometrial proteome, extraembryonic membranes proteome	BACKGROUND: Proteome characterization of the porcine endometrium and extraembryonic membranes is important to understand mother-embryo cross-communication. In this study, the proteome of the endometrium and chorioallantoic membrane was characterized in pregnant sows (PS) during early gestation (d 18 and 24 of gestation) and in the endometrium of non-pregnant sows (NPS) during the same days using LC-MS/MS analysis. The UniProtKB database and ClueGO were used to obtain functional Gene Ontology annotations and biological and functional networks, respectively. RESULTS: Our analysis yielded 3,254 and 3,457 proteins identified in the endometrium of PS and NPS, respectively; of these, 1,753 being common while 1,501 and 1,704 were exclusive to PS and NPS, respectively. In addition, we identified 3,968 proteins in the extraembryonic membranes of PS. Further analyses of function revealed some proteins had relevance for the immune system process and biological adhesion in endometrium while the embryonic chorion displayed abundance of proteins related to cell adhesion and cytoskeletal organization, suggesting they dominated the moment of endometrial remodeling, implantation and adhesion of the lining epithelia. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042565. CONCLUSION: This is the first in-depth proteomic characterization of the endometrium and extraembryonic membranes during weeks 3 to 4 of gestation; data that contribute to the molecular understanding of the dynamic environment during this critical period, associated with the majority of pregnancy losses.
PXD040431	38468924	Cyberlindnera jadinii yeast as a functional protein source: Modulation of immunoregulatory pathways in the intestinal proteome of zebrafish (Danio rerio). 	Cyberlindnera jadinii yeast as a functional protein source: Modulation of immunoregulatory pathways in the intestinal proteome of zebrafish (Danio rerio)	Innate immunity, KEGG pathways analysis, Non saccharomyces yeast	Yeasts contain bioactive components that can enhance fish immune robustness and disease resistance. Our study focused on analyzing intestinal immunoregulatory pathways in zebrafish (Danio rerio) using iTRAQ and 2D LC-MS/MS to quantify intestinal proteins. Zebrafish were fed either control diet (C) or diet supplemented with autolyzed Cyberlindnera jadinii (ACJ). KEGG analysis revealed that ACJ yeast diet induced increased abundance of proteins related to arginine and proline metabolism, phagosome, C-lectin receptor signaling, ribosome and PPAR signaling pathways, which can modulate and enhance innate immune responses. ACJ yeast diet also showed decreased abundance of proteins associated with inflammatory pathways, including apoptosis, necroptosis and ferroptosis. These findings indicate boosted innate immune response and control of inflammation-related pathways in zebrafish intestine. Our findings in the well annotated proteome of zebrafish enabled a detailed investigation of intestinal responses and provide insight into health-beneficial effects of yeast species C. jadinii, which is relevant for aquaculture species.
PXD046101	38469403	Quantitative proteomics reveals the protective effects of Yinchenzhufu decoction against cholestatic liver fibrosis in mice by inhibiting the PDGFRbeta/PI3K/AKT pathway. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals the protective effects of Yinchenzhufu decoction against cholestatic liver fibrosis in mice by inhibiting PDGFRbeta/PI3K/AKT pathway	PDGFRbeta/PI3K/AKT, Yinchenzhufu decoction, cholestasis, liver fibrosis	Introduction: Yinchenzhufu decoction (YCZFD) is a traditional Chinese medicine formula with hepatoprotective effects. In this study, the protective effects of YCZFD against cholestatic liver fibrosis (CLF) and its underlying mechanisms were evaluated. Methods: A 3, 5-diethoxycarbonyl-1, 4-dihydro-collidine (DDC)-induced cholestatic mouse model was used to investigate the amelioration of YCZFD on CLF. Data-independent acquisition-based mass spectrometry was performed to investigate proteomic changes in the livers of mice in three groups: control, model, and model treated with high-dose YCZFD. The effects of YCZFD on the expression of key proteins were confirmed in mice and cell models. Results: YCZFD significantly decreased the levels of serum biochemical, liver injury, and fibrosis indicators of cholestatic mice. The proteomics indicated that 460 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified among control, model, and model treated with high-dose YCZFD groups. Enrichment analyses of these DEPs revealed that YCZFD influenced multiple pathways, including PI3K-Akt, focal adhesion, ECM-receptor interaction, glutathione metabolism, and steroid biosynthesis pathways. The expression of platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRbeta), a receptor associated with the PI3K/AKT and focal adhesion pathways, was upregulated in the livers of cholestatic mice but downregulated by YCZFD. The effects of YCZFD on the expression of key proteins in the PDGFRbeta/PI3K/AKT pathway were further confirmed in mice and transforming growth factor-beta-induced hepatic stellate cells. We uncovered seven plant metabolites (chlorogenic acid, scoparone, isoliquiritigenin, glycyrrhetinic acid, formononetin, atractylenolide I, and benzoylaconitine) of YCZFD that may regulate PDGFRbeta expression. Conclusion: YCZFD substantially protects against DDC-induced CLF mainly through regulating the PDGFRbeta/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
PXD039317	38470180	Pyoluteorin regulates the biosynthesis of 2,4-DAPG through the TetR family transcription factor PhlH in Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5. 	Quantitative proteomics of Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5 treated with pyoluteorin and  phlG strain	Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5, phlG, pyoluteorin	Soil and rhizosphere bacteria act as a rich source of secondary metabolites, effectively fighting against a diverse array of pathogens. Certain Pseudomonas species harbor biosynthetic gene clusters for producing both pyoluteorin and 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (2,4-DAPG), which are polyketides that exhibit highly similar antimicrobial spectrum against bacteria and fungi or oomycete. A complex cross talk exists between pyoluteorin and 2,4-DAPG biosynthesis, and production of 2,4-DAPG was strongly repressed by pyoluteorin, yet the underlying mechanism is still elusive. In this study, we find that the TetR family transcription factor PhlH is involved in the cross talk between pyoluteorin and 2,4-DAPG biosynthesis. PhlH binds to a palindromic sequence within the promoter of phlG (PphlG), which encodes a C-C bond hydrolase responsible for degrading 2,4-DAPG. As a signaling molecule, pyoluteorin disrupts the PhlH-PphlG complex by binding to PhlH, leading to decreased levels of 2,4-DAPG. Proteomics data suggest that pyoluteorin regulates multiple physiological processes including fatty acid biosynthesis and transportation of taurine, siderophore, and amino acids. Our work not only reveals a novel mechanism of cross talk between pyoluteorin and 2,4-DAPG biosynthesis, but also highlights pyoluteorin's role as a messenger in the complex communication network of Pseudomonas.IMPORTANCEAntibiosis serves as a crucial defense mechanism for microbes against invasive bacteria and resource competition. These bacteria typically orchestrate the production of multiple antibiotics in a coordinated fashion, wherein the synthesis of one antibiotic inhibits the generation of another. This strategic coordination allows the bacterium to focus its resources on producing the most advantageous antibiotic under specific circumstances. However, the underlying mechanisms of distinct antibiotic production in bacterial cells remain largely elusive. In this study, we reveal that the TetR family transcription factor PhlH detects the secondary metabolite pyoluteorin and mediates the cross talk between pyoluteorin and 2,4-DAPG biosynthesis in the biocontrol strain Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5. These findings hold promise for future research, potentially informing the manipulation of these systems to enhance the effectiveness of biocontrol agents.
PXD047937	38472173	Theileria parasites sequester host eIF5A to escape elimination by host-mediated autophagy. 	Theileria parasites sequester host eIF5a to escape elimination by host-mediated autophagy	Autophagy, Drug screening, Epigenetic inhibitor, Parasite host response, Protein sequestration, Theileria	Intracellular pathogens develop elaborate mechanisms to survive within the hostile environments of host cells. Theileria parasites infect bovine leukocytes and cause devastating diseases in cattle in developing countries. Theileria spp. have evolved sophisticated strategies to hijack host leukocytes, inducing proliferative and invasive phenotypes characteristic of cell transformation. Intracellular Theileria parasites secrete proteins into the host cell and recruit host proteins to induce oncogenic signaling for parasite survival. It is unknown how Theileria parasites evade host cell defense mechanisms, such as autophagy, to survive within host cells. Here, we show that Theileria annulata parasites sequester the host eIF5A protein to their surface to escape elimination by autophagic processes. We identified a small-molecule compound that reduces parasite load by inducing autophagic flux in host leukocytes, thereby uncoupling Theileria parasite survival from host cell survival. We took a chemical genetics approach to show that this compound induced host autophagy mechanisms and the formation of autophagic structures via AMPK activation and the release of the host protein eIF5A which is sequestered at the parasite surface. The sequestration of host eIF5A to the parasite surface offers a strategy to escape elimination by autophagic mechanisms. These results show how intracellular pathogens can avoid host defense mechanisms and identify a new anti-Theileria drug that induces autophagy to target parasite removal.
PXD050191	38472229	ZNF827 is a single-stranded DNA binding protein that regulates the ATR-CHK1 DNA damage response pathway. 	Analysis of ZNF827 Halotag pulldown for a manuscript titled   ZNF827 is a single-stranded DNA binding protein that regulates the ATR-CHK1 DNA damage response pathway'	ATR, DNA damage response, ZNF827, ssDNA	The ATR-CHK1 DNA damage response pathway becomes activated by the exposure of RPA-coated single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) that forms as an intermediate during DNA damage and repair, and as a part of the replication stress response. Here, we identify ZNF827 as a component of the ATR-CHK1 kinase pathway. We demonstrate that ZNF827 is a ssDNA binding protein that associates with RPA through concurrent binding to ssDNA intermediates. These interactions are dependent on two clusters of C2H2 zinc finger motifs within ZNF827. We find that ZNF827 accumulates at stalled forks and DNA damage sites, where it activates ATR and promotes the engagement of homologous recombination-mediated DNA repair. Additionally, we demonstrate that ZNF827 depletion inhibits replication initiation and sensitizes cancer cells to the topoisomerase inhibitor topotecan, revealing ZNF827 as a therapeutic target within the DNA damage response pathway.
PXD037877	38472335	Proteomic characterization of hUC-MSC extracellular vesicles and evaluation of its therapeutic potential to treat Alzheimer's disease. 	Revealing proteome characteristics and disease treatment potential of different batches of hUC-MSC-Exo based on LC-MS/MS	AD, hUC-MSC-Exo	In recent years, human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell (hUC-MSC) extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been used as a cell replacement therapy and have been shown to effectively overcome some of the disadvantages of cell therapy. However, the specific mechanism of action of EVs is still unclear, and there is no appropriate system for characterizing the differences in the molecular active substances of EVs produced by cells in different physiological states. We used a data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative proteomics method to identify and quantify the protein composition of two generations EVs from three different donors and analysed the function and possible mechanism of action of the proteins in EVs of hUC-MSCs via bioinformatics. By comparative proteomic analysis, we characterized the different passages EVs. Furthermore, we found that adaptor-related protein complex 2 subunit alpha 1 (AP2A1) and adaptor-related protein complex 2 subunit beta 1 (AP2B1) in hUC-MSC-derived EVs may play a significant role in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by regulating the synaptic vesicle cycle signalling pathway. Our work provides a direction for batch-to-batch quality control of hUC-MSC-derived EVs and their application in AD treatment.
PXD047285	38473370	Multiple Myeloma Derived Extracellular Vesicle Uptake by Monocyte Cells Stimulates IL-6 and MMP-9 Secretion and Promotes Cancer Cell Migration and Proliferation. 	Multiple myeloma derived extracellular vesicle uptake by monocyte cells stimulates secretion of IL-6 and MMP9 and promotes cancer cell migration and proliferation.	Multiple myeloma, cancer cell migration., extracellular vesicle	Multiple Myeloma (MM) is an incurable haematological malignancy caused by uncontrolled growth of plasma cells. MM pathogenesis is attributed to crosstalk between plasma cells and the bone marrow microenvironment, where extracellular vesicles (EVs) play a role. In this study, EVs secreted from a panel of MM cell lines were isolated from conditioned media by ultracentrifugation and fluorescently stained EVs were co-cultured with THP-1 monocyte cells. MM EVs from three cell lines displayed a differential yet dose-dependent uptake by THP-1 cells, with H929 EVs displaying the greatest EV uptake compared to MM.1s and U266 EVs suggesting that uptake efficiency is dependent on the cell line of origin. Furthermore, MM EVs increased the secretion of MMP-9 and IL-6 from monocytes, with H929 EVs inducing the greatest effect, consistent with the greatest uptake efficiency. Moreover, monocyte-conditioned media collected following H929 EV uptake significantly increased the migration and proliferation of MM cells. Finally, EV proteome analysis revealed differential cargo enrichment that correlates with disease progression including a significant enrichment of spliceosome-related proteins in H929 EVs compared to the U266 and MM.1s EVs. Overall, this study demonstrates that MM-derived EVs modulate monocyte function to promote tumour growth and metastasis and reveals possible molecular mechanisms involved.
PXD043257	38473844	Nicotinamide Mononucleotide (NMN) Works in Type 2 Diabetes through Unexpected Effects in Adipose Tissue, Not by Mitochondrial Biogenesis. 	SWATH proteomics of NMN effects	C2C12, DIA-NN, HepG2, NMN, SWATH-MS	Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) has emerged as a promising therapeutic intervention for age-related disorders, including type 2 diabetes. In this study, we confirmed the previously observed effects of NMN treatment on glucose uptake and investigated its underlying mechanisms in various tissues and cell lines. Through the most comprehensive proteomic analysis to date, we discovered a series of novel organ-specific effects responsible for glucose uptake as measured by the IPGTT: adipose tissue growing (suggested by increased protein synthesis and degradation and mTOR proliferation signaling upregulation). Notably, we observed the upregulation of thermogenic UCP1, promoting enhanced glucose conversion to heat in intermuscular adipose tissue while showing a surprising repressive effect on mitochondrial biogenesis in muscle and the brain. Additionally, liver and muscle cells displayed a unique response, characterized by spliceosome downregulation and concurrent upregulation of chaperones, proteasomes, and ribosomes, leading to mildly impaired and energy-inefficient protein synthesis machinery. Furthermore, our findings revealed remarkable metabolic rewiring in the brain. This involved increased production of ketone bodies, downregulation of mitochondrial OXPHOS and TCA cycle components, as well as the induction of well-known fasting-associated effects. Collectively, our data elucidate the multifaceted nature of NMN action, highlighting its organ-specific effects and their role in improving glucose uptake. These findings deepen our understanding of NMN's therapeutic potential and pave the way for novel strategies in managing metabolic disorders.
PXD048720	38474019	Proteomic Analysis of a Rat Streptozotocin Model Shows Dysregulated Biological Pathways Implicated in Alzheimer's Disease. 	Proteomic analysis of a rat streptozotocin model shows dysregulated biological pathways implicated in Alzheimer's Disease	Hippocampus (HPC), Pre-frontal cortex (PFC), Streptozotocin	Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive memory loss and cognitive impairment, affecting 35 million individuals worldwide. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of low to moderate doses of streptozotocin (STZ) in adult male Wistar rats can reproduce classical physiopathological hallmarks of AD. This biological model is known as ICV-STZ. Most studies are focused on the description of behavioral and morphological aspects of the ICV-STZ model. However, knowledge regarding the molecular aspects of the ICV-STZ model is still incipient. Therefore, this work is a first attempt to provide a wide proteome description of the ICV-STZ model based on mass spectrometry (MS). To achieve that, samples from the pre-frontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus (HPC) of the ICV-STZ model and control (wild-type) were used. Differential protein abundance, pathway, and network analysis were performed based on the protein identification and quantification of the samples. Our analysis revealed dysregulated biological pathways implicated in the early stages of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD), based on differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). Some of these DAPs had their mRNA expression further investigated through qRT-PCR. Our results shed light on the AD onset and demonstrate the ICV-STZ as a valid model for LOAD proteome description.
PXD048228	38474127	Applying Proteomics and Computational Approaches to Identify Novel Targets in Blast-Associated Post-Traumatic Epilepsy. 	Applying Proteomics and Computational Approaches to Identify Novel Targets in Blast Associated Post-Traumatic Epilepsy	blast neurotrauma, concussive brain injury, post traumatic epilepsy, traumatic brain injury	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can lead to post-traumatic epilepsy (PTE). Blast TBI (bTBI) found in Veterans presents with several complications, including cognitive and behavioral disturbances and PTE; however, the underlying mechanisms that drive the long-term sequelae are not well understood. Using an unbiased proteomics approach in a mouse model of repeated bTBI (rbTBI), this study addresses this gap in the knowledge. After rbTBI, mice were monitored using continuous, uninterrupted video-EEG for up to four months. Following this period, we collected cortex and hippocampus tissues from three groups of mice: those with post-traumatic epilepsy (PTE(+)), those without epilepsy (PTE(-)), and the control group (sham). Hundreds of differentially expressed proteins were identified in the cortex and hippocampus of PTE(+) and PTE(-) relative to sham. Focusing on protein pathways unique to PTE(+), pathways related to mitochondrial function, post-translational modifications, and transport were disrupted. Computational metabolic modeling using dysregulated protein expression predicted mitochondrial proton pump dysregulation, suggesting electron transport chain dysregulation in the epileptic tissue relative to PTE(-). Finally, data mining enabled the identification of several novel and previously validated TBI and epilepsy biomarkers in our data set, many of which were found to already be targeted by drugs in various phases of clinical testing. These findings highlight novel proteins and protein pathways that may drive the chronic PTE sequelae following rbTBI.
PXD048641	38474271	Prefrontal Cortex Cytosolic Proteome and Machine Learning-Based Predictors of Resilience toward Chronic Social Isolation in Rats. 	Prefrontal cortex cytoplasmic proteome and machine learning-based predictors of resilience towards chronic social isolation in rats	Brain, DDA, Machine learning, Rat	Chronic social isolation (CSIS) generates two stress-related phenotypes: resilience and susceptibility. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying CSIS resilience remain unclear. We identified altered proteome components and biochemical pathways and processes in the prefrontal cortex cytosolic fraction in CSIS-resilient rats compared to CSIS-susceptible and control rats using liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry followed by label-free quantification and STRING bioinformatics. A sucrose preference test was performed to distinguish rat phenotypes. Potential predictive proteins discriminating between the CSIS-resilient and CSIS-susceptible groups were identified using machine learning (ML) algorithms: support vector machine-based sequential feature selection and random forest-based feature importance scores. Predominantly, decreased levels of some glycolytic enzymes, G protein-coupled receptor proteins, the Ras subfamily of GTPases proteins, and antioxidant proteins were found in the CSIS-resilient vs. CSIS-susceptible groups. Altered levels of Gapdh, microtubular, cytoskeletal, and calcium-binding proteins were identified between the two phenotypes. Increased levels of proteins involved in GABA synthesis, the proteasome system, nitrogen metabolism, and chaperone-mediated protein folding were identified. Predictive proteins make CSIS-resilient vs. CSIS-susceptible groups linearly separable, whereby a 100% validation accuracy was achieved by ML models. The overall ratio of significantly up- and downregulated cytosolic proteins suggests adaptive cellular alterations as part of the stress-coping process specific for the CSIS-resilient phenotype.
PXD048590	38474882	The Interaction between Human Microbes and Advanced Glycation End Products: The Role of Klebsiella X15 on Advanced Glycation End Products' Degradation. 	Proteome of Klebsiella under different conditions	Klebsiella	Previous studies have shown that advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are implicated in the occurrence and progression of numerous diseases, with dietary AGEs being particularly associated with intestinal disorders. In this study, methylglyoxal-beta-lactoglobulin AGEs (MGO-beta-LG AGEs) were utilized as the exclusive nitrogen source to investigate the interaction between protein-bound AGEs and human gut microbiota. The high-resolution mass spectrometry analysis of alterations in peptides containing AGEs within metabolites before and after fermentation elucidated the capacity of intestinal microorganisms to enzymatically hydrolyze long-chain AGEs into short-chain counterparts. The 16S rRNA sequencing revealed Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Escherichia-Shigella, and other genera as dominant microbiota at different fermentation times. A total of 187 potential strains of AGE-metabolizing bacteria were isolated from the fermentation broth at various time points. Notably, one strain of Klebsiella exhibited the most robust growth capacity when AGEs served as the sole nitrogen source. Subsequently, proteomics was employed to compare the changes in protein levels of Klebsiella X15 following cultivation in unmodified proteins and proteins modified with AGEs. This analysis unveiled a remodeled amino acid and energy metabolism pathway in Klebsiella in response to AGEs, indicating that Klebsiella may possess a metabolic pathway specifically tailored to AGEs. This study found that fermenting AGEs in healthy human intestinal microbiota altered the bacterial microbiota structure, especially by increasing Klebsiella proliferation, which could be a key factor in AGEs' role in causing diseases, particularly intestinal inflammation.
PXD047857	38475715	Neat plasma proteomics: getting the best out of the worst. 	NEAT PLASMA PROTEOMICS: GETTING THE BEST OUT OF THE WORST	DIA, DIA-NN, Extracellular Vesicles, Plasma, timsTOF Pro	Plasma proteomics holds immense potential for clinical research and biomarker discovery, serving as a non-invasive "liquid biopsy" for tissue sampling. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics, thanks to improvement in speed and robustness, emerges as an ideal technology for exploring the plasma proteome for its unbiased and highly specific protein identification and quantification. Despite its potential, plasma proteomics is still a challenge due to the vast dynamic range of protein abundance, hindering the detection of less abundant proteins. Different approaches can help overcome this challenge. Conventional depletion methods face limitations in cost, throughput, accuracy, and off-target depletion. Nanoparticle-based enrichment shows promise in compressing dynamic range, but cost remains a constraint. Enrichment strategies for extracellular vesicles (EVs) can enhance plasma proteome coverage dramatically, but current methods are still too laborious for large series. Neat plasma remains popular for its cost-effectiveness, time efficiency, and low volume requirement. We used a test set of 33 plasma samples for all evaluations. Samples were digested using S-Trap and analyzed on Evosep One and nanoElute coupled to a timsTOF Pro using different elution gradients and ion mobility ranges. Data were mainly analyzed using library-free searches using DIA-NN. This study explores ways to improve proteome coverage in neat plasma both in MS data acquisition and MS data analysis. We demonstrate the value of sampling smaller hydrophilic peptides, increasing chromatographic separation, and using library-free searches. Additionally, we introduce the EV boost approach, that leverages on the extracellular vesicle fraction to enhance protein identification in neat plasma samples. Globally, our optimized analysis workflow allows the quantification of over 1000 proteins in neat plasma with a 24SPD throughput. We believe that these considerations can be of help independently of the LC-MS platform used.
PXD049134	38475825	Cryopreserved cGMP-compliant human pluripotent stem cell-derived hepatic progenitors rescue mice from acute liver failure through rapid paracrine effects on liver cells. 	Unbiased Proteomic Profiling of Mouse Liver Tissue Samples Using HRM Mass Spectrometry	HRM, Liver, Mice	BACKGROUND: Liver transplantation remains the only curative treatment for end-stage liver diseases. Unfortunately, there is a drastic organ donor shortage. Hepatocyte transplantation emerged as a viable alternative to liver transplantation. Considering their unique expansion capabilities and their potency to be driven toward a chosen cell fate, pluripotent stem cells are extensively studied as an unlimited cell source of hepatocytes for cell therapy. It has been previously shown that freshly prepared hepatocyte-like cells can cure mice from acute and chronic liver failure and restore liver function. METHODS: Human PSC-derived immature hepatic progenitors (GStemHep) were generated using a new protocol with current good manufacturing practice compliant conditions from PSC amplification and hepatic differentiation to cell cryopreservation. The therapeutic potential of these cryopreserved cells was assessed in two clinically relevant models of acute liver failure, and the mode of action was studied by several analytical methods, including unbiased proteomic analyses. RESULTS: GStemHep cells present an immature hepatic phenotype (alpha-fetoprotein positive, albumin negative), secrete hepatocyte growth factor and do not express major histocompatibility complex. A single dose of thawed GStemHep rescue mice from sudden death caused by acetaminophen and thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure, both in immunodeficient and immunocompetent animals in the absence of immunosuppression. Therapeutic biological effects were observed as soon as 3 h post-cell transplantation with a reduction in serum transaminases and in liver necrosis. The swiftness of the therapeutic effect suggests a paracrine mechanism of action of GStemHep leading to a rapid reduction of inflammation as well as a rapid cytoprotective effect with as a result a proteome reprograming of the host hepatocytes. The mode of action of GStemHep relie on the alleviation of inhibitory factors of liver regeneration, an increase in proliferation-promoting factors and a decrease in liver inflammation. CONCLUSIONS: We generated cryopreserved and current good manufacturing practice-compliant human pluripotent stem cell-derived immature hepatic progenitors that were highly effective in treating acute liver failure through rapid paracrine effects reprogramming endogenous hepatocytes. This is also the first report highlighting that human allogeneic cells could be used as cryopreserved cells and in the absence of immunosuppression for human PSC-based regenerative medicine for acute liver failure.
PXD041894	38475964	Identification of gravity-responsive serum proteins in spaceflight mice using a quantitative proteomic approach with data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. 	Identification of gravity-responsive serum proteins in spaceflight mice using a quantitative proteomic approach with data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry	Hindlimb unloading, Mouse serum, Spaceflight	Physical inactivity associated with gravity unloading, such as microgravity during spaceflight and hindlimb unloading (HU), can cause various physiological changes. In this study, we attempted to identify serum proteins whose levels fluctuated in response to gravity unloading. First, we quantitatively assessed changes in the serum proteome profiles of spaceflight mice using mass spectrometry with data-independent acquisition. The serum levels of several proteins involved in the responses to estrogen and glucocorticoid, blood vessel maturation, osteoblast differentiation, and ossification were changed by microgravity exposure. Furthermore, a collective evaluation of serum proteomic data from spaceflight and HU mice identified 30 serum proteins, including Mmp2, Igfbp2, Tnc, Cdh5, and Pmel, whose levels varied to a similar extent in both gravity unloading models. These changes in serum levels could be involved in the physiological changes induced by gravity unloading. A collective evaluation of serum, femur, and soleus muscle proteome data of spaceflight mice also showed 24 serum proteins, including Igfbp5, Igfbp3, and Postn, whose levels could be associated with biological changes induced by microgravity. This study examined serum proteome profiles in response to gravity unloading, and may help deepen our understanding of microgravity adaptation mechanisms during prolonged spaceflight missions.
PXD028941	38477372	Widespread Nuclear Lamina injuries defeat proteostatic purposes of alpha-Synuclein amyloid Inclusions. 	Nuclear-injuries by aberrant dynein-forces defeat proteostatic purposes of Lewy Body-like InclusionsNuclear-injuries by aberrant dynein-forces defeat proteostatic purposes of Lewy Body-like Inclusions	Lewy Body, Nuclear envelope injury, Syn-aggresomes, inclusion bodies, proteostasis over-saturation, -Synuclein	Biogenesis of inclusion bodies (IBs) facilitates protein quality control (PQC). Canonical aggresomes execute degradation of misfolded proteins while non-degradable amyloids quarantine into Insoluble Protein Deposits. Lewy Bodies (LBs) are filamentous amyloid inclusions of alpha-Synuclein but PQC-benefits and drawbacks associated with LB-like IBs remain underexplored. Here, we report that a crosstalk between filamentous LB-like IBs and aggresome-like IBs of alpha-Synuclein (Syn-aggresomes) buffer the load, aggregation state, and turnover of the amyloidogenic protein. Filamentous LB-like IBs possess unorthodox PQC-capacities of self-quarantining alpha-Synuclein amyloids and being degradable upon receding fresh amyloidogenesis. Syn-aggresomes equilibrate biogenesis of filamentous LB-like IBs by facilitating spontaneous degradation of alpha-Synuclein and conditional turnover of disintegrated alpha-Synuclein amyloids. Thus, both the inclusion bodies primarily contribute to PQC. Incidentally, the overgrown perinuclear LB-like IBs turn degenerative once these are misidentified by BICD2, a cargo-adapter for cytosolic motor-protein dynein. Microscopy indicates that microtubules surrounding the perinuclear filamentous inclusions are also distorted misbalancing the cytoskeleton-nucleoskeleton tension leading to widespread lamina injuries. Together, nucleocytoplasmic mixing, DNA-damage, and deregulated transcription of stress chaperones defeat the proteostatic purposes of the filamentous amyloids of alpha-Synuclein.
PXD043815	38479396	Pathophysiology of chikungunya virus infection associated with fatal outcomes. 	Pathogenesis of chikungunya virus infection associated with fatal outcome	Chikungunya infection, Immune Response, Plasma Proteomics	Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne alphavirus that causes acute, subacute, and chronic human arthritogenic diseases and, in rare instances, can lead to neurological complications and death. Here, we combined epidemiological, virological, histopathological, cytokine, molecular dynamics, metabolomic, proteomic, and genomic analyses to investigate viral and host factors that contribute to chikungunya-associated (CHIK) death. Our results indicate that CHIK deaths are associated with multi-organ infection, central nervous system damage, and elevated serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines compared with survivors. The histopathologic, metabolite, and proteomic signatures of CHIK deaths reveal hemodynamic disorders and dysregulated immune responses. The CHIKV East-Central-South-African lineage infecting our study population causes both fatal and survival cases. Additionally, CHIKV infection impairs the integrity of the blood-brain barrier, as evidenced by an increase in permeability and altered tight junction protein expression. Overall, our findings improve the understanding of CHIK pathophysiology and the causes of fatal infections.
PXD039257	38479452	Characterization of protein lactylation in relation to cardiac metabolic reprogramming in neonatal mouse hearts. 	Characterization of protein lactylation in relation to cardiac metabolic reprogramming in neonatal mouse hearts	Cell proliferation, Lactylation, Metabolic reprogramming, Postnatal heart regeneration	In mammals, the neonatal heart can regenerate upon injury within a short time after birth, while adults lose this ability. Metabolic reprogramming has been demonstrated to be critical for cardiomyocyte proliferation in the neonatal heart. Herein, we reveal that cardiac metabolic reprogramming could be regulated by altering global protein lactylation. Through performing 4D label-free proteomics and lysine lactylation (Kla) omics analyses in postnatal day 1, 5, and 7 mouse hearts, 2297 Kla sites from 980 proteins are identified, among which 1262 Kla sites from 409 proteins are quantified. Functional clustering analysis reveals that the proteins with altered Kla sites are mainly involved in metabolic processes. The expression and Kla levels of proteins in glycolysis show a positive correlation, while a negative correlation in fatty acid oxidation. Furthermore, we verify the Kla levels of several differentially modified proteins, including ACAT1, ACADL, ACADVL, PFKM, PKM, and NPM1. Overall, our study reports a comprehensive Kla map in the neonatal mouse heart, which will aid in understanding the regulatory network of metabolic reprogramming and cardiac regeneration.
PXD040385	38480730	Thunder-DDA-PASEF enables high-coverage immunopeptidomics and is boosted by MS(2)Rescore with MS(2)PIP timsTOF fragmentation prediction model. 	Thunder-DDA-PASEF enables high-coverage immunopeptidomics and is boosted by MS2Rescore with novel MS2PIP timsTOF fragmentation prediction model	DDA-PASEF, HLAIp, SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, immunopeptidomics, timsTOF	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I peptide ligands (HLAIps) are key targets for developing vaccines and immunotherapies against infectious pathogens or cancer cells. Identifying HLAIps is challenging due to their high diversity, low abundance, and patient individuality. Here, we develop a highly sensitive method for identifying HLAIps using liquid chromatography-ion mobility-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-IMS-MS/MS). In addition, we train a timsTOF-specific peak intensity MS(2)PIP model for tryptic and non-tryptic peptides and implement it in MS(2)Rescore (v3) together with the CCS predictor from ionmob. The optimized method, Thunder-DDA-PASEF, semi-selectively fragments singly and multiply charged HLAIps based on their IMS and m/z. Moreover, the method employs the high sensitivity mode and extended IMS resolution with fewer MS/MS frames (300 ms TIMS ramp, 3 MS/MS frames), doubling the coverage of immunopeptidomics analyses, compared to the proteomics-tailored DDA-PASEF (100 ms TIMS ramp, 10 MS/MS frames). Additionally, rescoring boosts the HLAIps identification by 41.7% to 33%, resulting in 5738 HLAIps from as little as one million JY cell equivalents, and 14,516 HLAIps from 20 million. This enables in-depth profiling of HLAIps from diverse human cell lines and human plasma. Finally, profiling JY and Raji cells transfected to express the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein results in 16 spike HLAIps, thirteen of which have been reported to elicit immune responses in human patients.
PXD047002	38482490	Proteome-metabolome profiling of wax gland complex reveals functional changes in honeybee, Apis mellifera L. 	Proteome-metabolome profiling of Wax gland complex reveals functional changes during Wax secretion in honey bee (Apis mellifera)	Beeswax, Wax gland complex, Wax secreting ability	Wax gland complex (WGC) serves as the primary generator of beeswax; however, the dynamic biological function in wax secretion remains unclear. To elucidate the developmental mechanism of WGC, we conducted a comprehensive analysis to reveal the variations in proteins and metabolites among the newly emerged bee (NEB), wax-secreting bee (WSB), and overaged bee (OAB). We identified 3,295 proteins and 159 metabolites in WGC. Specifically, NEB elevated the expression of ribosomal proteins for preparing the glandular organ. While WSB promoted the size of epidermal cells and oenocytes, the enrichment of fatty acids and energy metabolism in WSB suggested a strong ability in wax synthesis. In OAB, disorganized wax tubules, and up-regulated cysteine proteases reflected the gland degeneration. These findings highlight the dynamic changes in the level of molecule and morphological structure in WGC, offering valuable insights into the development and mechanism of wax secretion in honeybees and other wax insects.
PXD033229	38482865	ANP32e Binds Histone H2A.Z in a Cell Cycle-Dependent Manner and Regulates Its Protein Stability in the Cytoplasm. 	ANP32e binds histone H2A.Z in a cell cycle-dependent manner and regulates its protein stability in the cytoplasm	ANP32e, H2A.Z, cell cycle, chaperone, chromatin, chromatin remodeling, epigenetics, protein stability	ANP32e, a chaperone of H2A.Z, is receiving increasing attention because of its association with cancer growth and progression. An unanswered question is whether ANP32e regulates H2A.Z dynamics during the cell cycle; this could have clear implications for the proliferation of cancer cells. We confirmed that ANP32e regulates the growth of human U2OS cancer cells and preferentially interacts with H2A.Z during the G1 phase of the cell cycle. Unexpectedly, ANP32e does not mediate the removal of H2A.Z from chromatin, is not a stable component of the p400 remodeling complex and is not strongly associated with chromatin. Instead, most ANP32e is in the cytoplasm. Here, ANP32e preferentially interacts with H2A.Z in the G1 phase in response to an increase in H2A.Z protein abundance and regulates its protein stability. This G1-specific interaction was also observed in the nucleoplasm but was unrelated to any change in H2A.Z abundance. These results challenge the idea that ANP32e regulates the abundance of H2A.Z in chromatin as part of a chromatin remodeling complex. We propose that ANP32e is a molecular chaperone that maintains the soluble pool of H2A.Z by regulating its protein stability and acting as a buffer in response to cell cycle-dependent changes in H2A.Z abundance.
PXD044940	38484051	Continuous evolution of compact protein degradation tags regulated by selective molecular glues. 	Continuous evolution of compact protein degradation tags regulated by selective cereblon molecular glues	Cereblon, MG-PACE, evolution, molecular glue, phage, protein degradation	Conditional protein degradation tags (degrons) are usually >100 amino acids long or are triggered by small molecules with substantial off-target effects, thwarting their use as specific modulators of endogenous protein levels. We developed a phage-assisted continuous evolution platform for molecular glue complexes (MG-PACE) and evolved a 36-amino acid zinc finger (ZF) degron (SD40) that binds the ubiquitin ligase substrate receptor cereblon in complex with PT-179, an orthogonal thalidomide derivative. Endogenous proteins tagged in-frame with SD40 using prime editing are degraded by otherwise inert PT-179. Cryo-electron microscopy structures of SD40 in complex with ligand-bound cereblon revealed mechanistic insights into the molecular basis of SD40's activity and specificity. Our efforts establish a system for continuous evolution of molecular glue complexes and provide ZF tags that overcome shortcomings associated with existing degrons.
PXD044325	38484873	Effect of an immune challenge and two feed supplements on broiler chicken individual breast muscle protein synthesis rate. 	Effect of an immune challenge and feed supplements on broiler chicken individual breast muscle protein synthesis	FSR, chicken, citrus, muscle	Optimization of broiler chicken breast muscle protein accretion is key for the efficient production of poultry meat, whose demand is steadily increasing. In a context where antimicrobial growth promoters use is being restricted, it is important to find alternatives as well as to characterize the effect of immunological stress on broiler chicken's growth. Despite its importance, research on broiler chicken muscle protein dynamics has mostly been limited to the study of mixed protein turnover. The present study aims to characterize the effect of a bacterial challenge and the feed supplementation of citrus and cucumber extracts on broiler chicken individual breast muscle proteins fractional synthesis rates (FSR) using a recently developed dynamic proteomics pipeline. Twenty-one day-old broiler chickens were administered a single (2)H2O dose before being culled at different timepoints. A total of 60 breast muscle protein extracts from five experimental groups (Unchallenged, Challenged, Control Diet, Diet 1 and Diet 2) were analysed using a DDA proteomics approach. Proteomics data was filtered in order to reliably calculate multiple proteins FSR making use of a newly developed bioinformatics pipeline. Broiler breast muscle proteins FSR uniformly decreased following a bacterial challenge, this change was judged significant for 15 individual proteins, the two major functional clusters identified as well as for mixed breast muscle protein. Citrus or cucumber extract feed supplementation did not show any effect on the breast muscle protein FSR of immunologically challenged broilers. The present study has identified potential predictive markers of breast muscle growth and provided new information on broiler chicken breast muscle protein synthesis which could be essential for improving the efficiency of broiler chicken meat production. SIGNIFICANCE: The present study constitutes the first dynamic proteomics study conducted in a farm animal species which has characterized FSR in a large number of proteins, establishing a precedent for biomarker discovery and assessment of health and growth status. Moreover, it has been evidenced that the decrease in broiler chicken breast muscle protein following an immune challenge is a coordinated event which seems to be the main cause of the decreased growth observed in these animals.
PXD043152	38485948	Edible mycelium bioengineered for enhanced nutritional value and sensory appeal using a modular synthetic biology toolkit. 	Edible mycelium bioengineered for enhanced nutritional value and sensory appeal using a new synthetic biology toolkit	Bioengineering, Edible mycelium, nutrition, synthetic biology	Filamentous fungi are critical in the transition to a more sustainable food system. While genetic modification of these organisms has promise for enhancing the nutritional value, sensory appeal, and scalability of fungal foods, genetic tools and demonstrated use cases for bioengineered food production by edible strains are lacking. Here, we develop a modular synthetic biology toolkit for Aspergillus oryzae, an edible fungus used in fermented foods, protein production, and meat alternatives. Our toolkit includes a CRISPR-Cas9 method for gene integration, neutral loci, and tunable promoters. We use these tools to elevate intracellular levels of the nutraceutical ergothioneine and the flavor-and color molecule heme in the edible biomass. The strain overproducing heme is red in color and is readily formulated into imitation meat patties with minimal processing. These findings highlight the promise of synthetic biology to enhance fungal foods and provide useful genetic tools for applications in food production and beyond.
PXD049025	38486226	Multi-omics provide insights into the regulation of DNA methylation in pear fruit metabolism. 	Multiple-omics studies of pear fruit flesh	Flesh development, Multi-omics, Pyrus bretschneideri	BACKGROUND: Extensive research has been conducted on fruit development in crops, but the metabolic regulatory networks underlying perennial fruit trees remain poorly understood. To address this knowledge gap, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of the metabolome, proteome, transcriptome, DNA methylome, and small RNAome profiles of pear fruit flesh at 11 developing stages, spanning from fruitlet to ripening. Here, we systematically investigate the metabolic landscape and regulatory network involved. RESULTS: We generate an association database consisting of 439 metabolites and 14,399 genes to elucidate the gene regulatory network of pear flesh metabolism. Interestingly, we detect increased DNA methylation in the promoters of most genes within the database during pear flesh development. Application of a DNA methylation inhibitor to the developing fruit represses chlorophyll degradation in the pericarp and promotes xanthophyll, beta-carotene, and abscisic acid (ABA) accumulation in the flesh. We find the gradual increase in ABA production during pear flesh development is correlated with the expression of several carotenoid pathway genes and multiple transcription factors. Of these transcription factors, the zinc finger protein PbZFP1 is identified as a positive mediator of ABA biosynthesis in pear flesh. Most ABA pathway genes and transcription factors are modified by DNA methylation in the promoters, although some are induced by the DNA methylation inhibitor. These results suggest that DNA methylation inhibits ABA accumulation, which may delay fruit ripening. CONCLUSION: Our findings provide insights into epigenetic regulation of metabolic regulatory networks during pear flesh development, particularly with regard to DNA methylation.
PXD045869	38487534	Immunoproteomics enable broad identification of new Aspergillus fumigatus antigens in severe equine asthma. 	In-Gel Digest to identify Aspergillus fumigatus protein antigens in severe equine asthma (SEA)	COPD, antibody, immunoblot, immunoglobulin isotype, recurrent airway obstruction, serum	Introduction: Severe equine asthma (SEA) is a common chronic disease of adult horses with characteristic recurrent airway obstruction and similarities to neutrophilic asthma in humans. As an extrinsic stimulus, hay dust exposure is a major risk factor and induces acute exacerbation in susceptible horses. However, single inducing agents of SEA have hardly been identified on a molecular basis. Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus) is a common mold species in hay and has been described as a major provoking agent of SEA. Methods: Aiming to identify disease-relevant antigens, we analyzed A. fumigatus using an immunoproteomics approach on two-dimensional immunoblots of A. fumigatus protein probed with serum from environmentally matched asthmatic and healthy horses (n=5 pairs). A. fumigatus binding serum immunoglobulins (Pan-Ig), and the isotypes IgG4/7 and IgG3/5 were quantified for each protein spot and then compared between asthmatic and healthy horses. Results and discussion: For 21 out of 289 spots serum immunoglobulin (Ig) binding was different between the two groups for Pan-Ig or the isotypes. If differences were detected, Pan-Ig and IgG4/7 binding to the proteins were lower, while IgG3/5 binding was higher in asthmatic than healthy horse sera. Proteins were extracted from the 21 spots of interest and analyzed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Eight prioritized proteins (candidate antigens) were expressed as recombinant proteins. Some of these have been previously described as major or minor A. fumigatus allergens, alongside other proteins, most with hydrolase activity. Recombinant candidate antigens were tested on 1D immunoblots to confirm their relevance as antigens by serum antibody binding. Four proteins (beta-hexosaminidase, class II aldolase/adducin domain protein, glucoamylase, peptide hydrolase B0XX53) showed different antibody binding characteristics between asthmatic and healthy horses and are likely relevant antigens in SEA. Their identification can provide the basis for innovative diagnostics, prevention, or therapeutic approaches. Additionally, a more profound understanding of SEA and its potential underlying mechanisms can be established. Elevated serum IgG3/5 antibodies correlate with T helper cell 2 responses in other equine pathologies, and the recombinant SEA antigens developed here can become instrumental in analyzing the involvement of SEA-specific T cell responses and Ig responses in future studies.
PXD049188	38489266	PAD4 controls tumor immunity via restraining the MHC class II machinery in macrophages. 	PAD4 controls tumor immunity via restraining the MHC-II machinery in macrophages	MHC, PAD4, PIAS, STAT1, T cell, Tumor, checkpoint, citrullination, immunotherapy, macrophage	Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) shape tumor immunity and therapeutic efficacy. However, it is poorly understood whether and how post-translational modifications (PTMs) intrinsically affect the phenotype and function of TAMs. Here, we reveal that peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) exhibits the highest expression among common PTM enzymes in TAMs and negatively correlates with the clinical response to immune checkpoint blockade. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of PAD4 in macrophages prevents tumor progression in tumor-bearing mouse models, accompanied by an increase in macrophage major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expression and T cell effector function. Mechanistically, PAD4 citrullinates STAT1 at arginine 121, thereby promoting the interaction between STAT1 and protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1), and the loss of PAD4 abolishes this interaction, ablating the inhibitory role of PIAS1 in the expression of MHC class II machinery in macrophages and enhancing T cell activation. Thus, the PAD4-STAT1-PIAS1 axis is an immune restriction mechanism in macrophages and may serve as a cancer immunotherapy target.
PXD050135	38489388	KCTD10 regulates brain development by destabilizing brain disorder-associated protein KCTD13. 	Mouse cortex immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry	Crebral cortex, E14.5, KCTD10	KCTD10 belongs to the KCTD (potassiumchannel tetramerization domain) family, many members of which are associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the biological function underlying the association with brain disorders remains to be explored. Here, we reveal that Kctd10 is highly expressed in neuronal progenitors and layer V neurons throughout brain development. Kctd10 deficiency triggers abnormal proliferation and differentiation of neuronal progenitors, reduced deep-layer (especially layer V) neurons, increased upper-layer neurons, and lowered brain size. Mechanistically, we screened and identified a unique KCTD10-interacting protein, KCTD13, associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. KCTD10 mediated the ubiquitination-dependent degradation of KCTD13 and KCTD10 ablation resulted in a considerable increase of KCTD13 expression in the developing cortex. KCTD13 overexpression in neuronal progenitors led to reduced proliferation and abnormal cell distribution, mirroring KCTD10 deficiency. Notably, mice with brain-specific Kctd10 knockout exhibited obvious motor deficits. This study uncovers the physiological function of KCTD10 and provides unique insights into the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders.
PXD046194	38489772	Site-specific immobilization of the endosialidase reveals QSOX2 is a novel polysialylated protein. 	Site-specific immobilization of the endosialidase for studying polysialic acid reveals QSOX2 is a novel polysialylated protein	EndoN, QSOX2, biotinylation, protein immobilization	Polysialic acid (polySia) is a linear polymer of alpha2,8-linked sialic acid residues that is of fundamental biological interest due to its pivotal roles in the regulation of the nervous, immune, and reproductive systems in healthy human adults. PolySia is also dysregulated in several chronic diseases, including cancers and mental health disorders. However, the mechanisms underpinning polySia biology in health and disease remain largely unknown. The polySia-specific hydrolase, endoneuraminidase NF (EndoN), and the catalytically inactive polySia lectin EndoNDM, have been extensively used for studying polySia. However, EndoN is heat stable and remains associated with cells after washing. When studying polySia in systems with multiple polysialylated species, the residual EndoN that cannot be removed confounds data interpretation. We developed a strategy for site-specific immobilization of EndoN on streptavidin-coated magnetic beads. We showed that immobilizing EndoN allows for effective removal of the enzyme from samples, while retaining hydrolase activity. We used the same strategy to immobilize the polySia lectin EndoNDM, which enabled the enrichment of polysialylated proteins from complex mixtures such as serum for their identification via mass spectrometry. We used this methodology to identify a novel polysialylated protein, QSOX2, which is secreted from the breast cancer cell line MCF-7. This method of site-specific immobilization can be utilized for other enzymes and lectins to yield insight into glycobiology.
PXD041751	38490958	Proteomic analysis of ascitic extracellular vesicles describes tumour microenvironment and predicts patient survival in ovarian cancer. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of extracellular vesicles from malignant ascites in ovarian cancer patients	ascites, extracellular vesicles (EV), fallopian tube and peritoneum (HGSC), high-grade serous carcinoma of the ovary, macrophage, ovarian cancer (OC), tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS), tumor microenvironment	High-grade serous carcinoma of the ovary, fallopian tube and peritoneum (HGSC), the most common type of ovarian cancer, ranks among the deadliest malignancies. Many HGSC patients have excess fluid in the peritoneum called ascites. Ascites is a tumour microenvironment (TME) containing various cells, proteins and extracellular vesicles (EVs). We isolated EVs from patients' ascites by orthogonal methods and analyzed them by mass spectrometry. We identified not only a set of 'core ascitic EV-associated proteins' but also defined their subset unique to HGSC ascites. Using single-cell RNA sequencing data, we mapped the origin of HGSC-specific EVs to different types of cells present in ascites. Surprisingly, EVs did not come predominantly from tumour cells but from non-malignant cell types such as macrophages and fibroblasts. Flow cytometry of ascitic cells in combination with analysis of EV protein composition in matched samples showed that analysis of cell type-specific EV markers in HGSC has more substantial prognostic potential than analysis of ascitic cells. To conclude, we provide evidence that proteomic analysis of EVs can define the cellular composition of HGSC TME. This finding opens numerous avenues both for a better understanding of EV's role in tumour promotion/prevention and for improved HGSC diagnostics.
PXD043989	38490980	Immunopeptidomics-based identification of naturally presented non-canonical circRNA-derived peptides. 	Immunopeptidomics-based identification of naturally presented non-canonical circRNA-derived peptides	Immunopeptidomics, antigen discovery, circRNA	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are covalently closed non-coding RNAs lacking the 5' cap and the poly-A tail. Nevertheless, it has been demonstrated that certain circRNAs can undergo active translation. Therefore, aberrantly expressed circRNAs in human cancers could be an unexplored source of tumor-specific antigens, potentially mediating anti-tumor T cell responses. This study presents an immunopeptidomics workflow with a specific focus on generating a circRNA-specific protein fasta reference. The main goal of this workflow is to streamline the process of identifying and validating human leukocyte antigen (HLA) bound peptides potentially originating from circRNAs. We increase the analytical stringency of our workflow by retaining peptides identified independently by two mass spectrometry search engines and/or by applying a group-specific FDR for canonical-derived and circRNA-derived peptides. A subset of circRNA-derived peptides specifically encoded by the region spanning the back-splice junction (BSJ) are validated with targeted MS, and with direct Sanger sequencing of the respective source transcripts. Our workflow identifies 54 unique BSJ-spanning circRNA-derived peptides in the immunopeptidome of melanoma and lung cancer samples. Our approach enlarges the catalog of source proteins that can be explored for immunotherapy.
PXD049158	38490996	TANGO6 regulates cell proliferation via COPI vesicle-mediated RPB2 nuclear entry. 	The interactional proteins with TANGO6 in U251 cells	TANGO6	Coat protein complex I (COPI) vesicles mediate the retrograde transfer of cargo between Golgi cisternae and from the Golgi to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). However, their roles in the cell cycle and proliferation are unclear. This study shows that TANGO6 associates with COPI vesicles via two transmembrane domains. The TANGO6 N- and C-terminal cytoplasmic fragments capture RNA polymerase II subunit B (RPB) 2 in the cis-Golgi during the G1 phase. COPI-docked TANGO6 carries RPB2 to the ER and then to the nucleus. Functional disruption of TANGO6 hinders the nuclear entry of RPB2, which accumulates in the cytoplasm, causing cell cycle arrest in the G1 phase. The conditional depletion or overexpression of TANGO6 in mouse hematopoietic stem cells results in compromised or expanded hematopoiesis. Our study results demonstrate that COPI vesicle-associated TANGO6 plays a role in the regulation of cell cycle progression by directing the nuclear transfer of RPB2, making it a potential target for promoting or arresting cell expansion.
PXD049446	38491406	Characterization of diverse lysine acylations in Bacillus thuringiensis: Substrate profiling and functional exploration. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of prostate cancer	phosphoproteomic analysi, prostate cancer	Lysine acylation has been extensively investigated due to its regulatory role in a diverse range of biological functions across prokaryotic and eukaryotic species. In-depth acylomic profiles have the potential to enhance comprehension of the biological implications of organisms. However, the extent of research on global acylation profiles in microorganisms is limited. Here, four lysine acylomes were conducted in Bacillus thuringiensis by using the LC-MS/MS based proteomics combined with antibody-enrichment strategies, and a total of 3438 acetylated sites, 5797 propionylated sites, 1705 succinylated sites, and 925 malonylated sites were identified. The motif analysis of these modified proteins revealed a high conservation of glutamate in acetylation and propionylation, whereas such conservation was not observed in succinylation and malonylation modifications. Besides, conservation analysis showed that homologous acylated proteins in Bacillus subtilis and Escherichia coli were connected with ribosome and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis. Further biological experiments showed that lysine acylation lowered the RNA binding ability of CodY and impaired the in vivo protein activity of MetK. In conclusion, our study expanded the current understanding of the global acylation in Bacillus, and the comparative analysis demonstrated that shared acylation proteins could play important roles in regulating both metabolism and RNA transcription progression.
PXD046867	38493150	Nek2A prevents centrosome clustering and induces cell death in cancer cells via KIF2C interaction. 	Human Nek2A interactome analysis via TurboID	Nek2A, TurboID, cancer, interactome	Unlike normal cells, cancer cells frequently exhibit supernumerary centrosomes, leading to formation of multipolar spindles that can trigger cell death. Nevertheless, cancer cells with supernumerary centrosomes escape the deadly consequences of unequal segregation of genomic material by coalescing their centrosomes into two poles. This unique trait of cancer cells presents a promising target for cancer therapy, focusing on selectively attacking cells with supernumerary centrosomes. Nek2A is a kinase involved in mitotic regulation, including the centrosome cycle, where it phosphorylates linker proteins to separate centrosomes. In this study, we investigated if Nek2A also prevents clustering of supernumerary centrosomes, akin to its separation function. Reduction of Nek2A activity, achieved through knockout, silencing, or inhibition, promotes centrosome clustering, whereas its overexpression results in inhibition of clustering. Significantly, prevention of centrosome clustering induces cell death, but only in cancer cells with supernumerary centrosomes, both in vitro and in vivo. Notably, none of the known centrosomal (e.g., CNAP1, Rootletin, Gas2L1) or non-centrosomal (e.g., TRF1, HEC1) Nek2A targets were implicated in this machinery. Additionally, Nek2A operated via a pathway distinct from other proteins involved in centrosome clustering mechanisms, like HSET and NuMA. Through TurboID proximity labeling analysis, we identified novel proteins associated with the centrosome or microtubules, expanding the known interaction partners of Nek2A. KIF2C, in particular, emerged as a novel interactor, confirmed through coimmunoprecipitation and localization analysis. The silencing of KIF2C diminished the impact of Nek2A on centrosome clustering and rescued cell viability. Additionally, elevated Nek2A levels were indicative of better patient outcomes, specifically in those predicted to have excess centrosomes. Therefore, while Nek2A is a proposed target, its use must be specifically adapted to the broader cellular context, especially considering centrosome amplification. Discovering partners such as KIF2C offers fresh insights into cancer biology and new possibilities for targeted treatment.
PXD046465	38493895	The zinc finger motif in the mitochondrial large ribosomal subunit protein bL36m is essential for optimal yeast mitoribosome assembly and function. 	The zinc finger motif in bL36m supports mitoribosome assembly and function	S. cerevisiae, bL36m, mitochondria, mitoribosome, zinc	Ribosomes across species contain subsets of zinc finger proteins that play structural roles by binding to rRNA. While the majority of these zinc fingers belong to the C2-C2 type, the large subunit protein L36 in bacteria and mitochondria exhibits an atypical C2-CH motif. To comprehend the contribution of each coordinating residue in S. cerevisiae bL36m to mitoribosome assembly and function, we engineered and characterized strains carrying single and double mutations in the zinc coordinating residues. Our findings reveal that although all four residues markedly influence protein stability, C to A mutations in C66 and/or C69 have a more pronounced effect compared to those at C82 and H88. Importantly, protein stability directly correlates with the assembly and function of the mitoribosome and the growth rate of yeast in respiratory conditions. Mass spectrometry analysis of large subunit particles indicates that strains deleted for bL36m or expressing mutant variants have defective assembly of the L7/L12 stalk base, limiting their functional competence. Furthermore, we employed a synthetic bL36m protein collection, including both wild-type and mutant proteins, to elucidate their ability to bind zinc. Our data indicate that mutations in C82 and, particularly, H88 allow for some zinc binding albeit inefficient or unstable, explaining the residual accumulation and activity in mitochondria of bL36m variants carrying mutations in these residues. In conclusion, stable zinc binding by bL36m is essential for optimal mitoribosome assembly and function. MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifierPXD046465.
PXD047890	38493954	Proteomic Profiling of Muscular Adaptations to Short-term Concentric vs. Eccentric Exercise Training in Humans. 	Proteomic profiling of muscular adaptations to short-term concentric vs. eccentric exercise training in humans	Concentric exercise, Eccentric exercise, Human skeletal muscle, Short term training	The molecular mechanisms underlying muscular adaptations to concentric, and eccentric exercise training have been extensively explored. However, most previous studies have focused on subjectively selected proteins, thus, unable to provide a comprehensive protein profile, and potentially missing the crucial mechanisms underlying muscular adaptation to exercise training. We herein aimed to investigate proteomic profiles of human skeletal muscle in response to short-term resistance training. Twenty young males were randomly and evenly assigned to two groups to complete a four-week either eccentric (ECC) or concentric (CON) training program. Measurements of body composition and physiological function of the quadriceps femoris were conducted both before and after the training. Muscle biopsies from the vastus lateralis of randomly selected participants (five in ECC and four in CON) of both before- and after the training were analyzed using the liquid-chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in combination with bioinformatics analysis. Neither group presented a significant difference in body composition or leg muscle mass; however, muscle peak torque, total work, and maximal voluntary contraction were significantly increased after the training in both groups. Proteomics analysis revealed 122 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs; P value < 0.05 & Fold Change > 1.5 or < 0.67) in ECC, of which the increased DAPs were mainly related to skeletal muscle contraction and cytoskeleton, and enriched specifically in the pentose phosphate pathway, ECM-receptor interaction, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, whereas the decreased DAPs were associated with the mitochondrial respiratory chain. 101 DAPs were identified in CON, of which the increased DAPs were primarily involved in translation/protein synthesis and the mitochondria respiratory, whereas the decreased DAPs were related to metabolic processes, cytoskeleton, and de-ubiquitination. In conclusion, the four-week concentric- and eccentric training resulted in distinctly different proteomic profiles, especially in proteins related to muscular structure and metabolism.
PXD044267	38495650	Oral infectivity through carnivorism in murine model of Trypanosoma cruzi infection. 	Trypanosoma cruzi, oral infection, cruzipain, gp85/Trans- sialidase family	Trypanosoma cruzi, cruzipain, gp85/Trans- sialidase family, oral infection	Introduction: Oral transmission of T. cruzi is probably the most frequent transmission mechanism in wild animals. This observation led to the hypothesis that consuming raw or undercooked meat from animals infected with T. cruzi may be responsible for transmitting the infection. Therefore, the general objective of this study was to investigate host-pathogen interactions between the parasite and gastric mucosa and the role of meat consumption from infected animals in the oral transmission of T. cruzi. Methods: Cell infectivity assays were performed on AGS cells in the presence or absence of mucin, and the roles of pepsin and acidic pH were determined. Moreover, groups of five female Balb/c mice were fed with muscle tissue obtained from mice in the acute phase of infection by the clone H510 C8C3hvir of T. cruzi, and the infection of the fed mice was monitored by a parasitemia curve. Similarly, we assessed the infective capacity of T. cruzi trypomastigotes and amastigotes by infecting groups of five mice Balb/c females, which were infected orally using a nasogastric probe, and the infection was monitored by a parasitemia curve. Finally, different trypomastigote and amastigote inoculums were used to determine their infective capacities. Adhesion assays of T. cruzi proteins to AGS stomach cells were performed, and the adhered proteins were detected by western blotting using monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies and by LC-MS/MS and bioinformatics analysis. Results: Trypomastigote migration in the presence of mucin was reduced by approximately 30%, whereas in the presence of mucin and pepsin at pH 3.5, only a small proportion of parasites were able to migrate (~6%). Similarly, the ability of TCTs to infect AGS cells in the presence of mucin is reduced by approximately 20%. In all cases, 60-100% of the animals were fed meat from mice infected in the acute phase or infected with trypomastigotes or amastigotes developed high parasitemia, and 80% died around day 40 post-infection. The adhesion assay showed that cruzipain is a molecule of trypomastigotes and amastigotes that binds to AGS cells. LC-MS/MS and bioinformatics analysis, also confirmed that transialidase, cysteine proteinases, and gp63 may be involved in TCTs attachment or invasion of human stomach cells because they can potentially interact with different proteins in the human stomach mucosa. In addition, several human gastric mucins have cysteine protease cleavage sites. Discussion: Then, under our experimental conditions, consuming meat from infected animals in the acute phase allows the T. cruzi infection. Similarly, trypomastigotes and amastigotes could infect mice when administered orally, whereas cysteinyl proteinases and trans-sialidase appear to be relevant molecules in this infective process.
PXD046028	38496383	Study on the underlying molecular mechanism of benzene-induced nervous system damage in mice based on tandem mass tag (TMT) proteomics. 	Identification of biomarkers of central nervous system damage in mice of benzene poisoning based on TMT proteomics	TMT proteomic, benzene poisoning, brain, mice	Benzene is known to be a common toxic industrial chemical, and prolonged benzene exposure may cause nervous system damage. At present, there were few studies on benzene-induced neurological damage. This research aimed to identify the protein biomarkers to explore the mechanism of nervous system damage caused by benzene. We established a benzene poisoning model of C57 mice by gavage of benzene-peanut oil suspension and identified differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in brain tissue using tandem mass tag (TMT) proteomics. The results showed a significant weight loss and decrease in leukocyte and neutrophil counts in benzene poisoning mice compared to the control group. We also observed local cerebral oedema and small vessel occlusion in the cerebral white matter of benzene poisoning mice. TMT proteomic results showed that a total 6,985 proteins were quantified, with a fold change (FC) > 1.2 (or < 1/1.2) and P value <0.05 were considered as DEPs. Compared with the control group, we identified 43 DEPs, comprising 14 upregulated and 29 downregulated proteins. Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis results showed that the candidate proteins were mainly involved in cholesterol metabolism, complement and coagulation cascades, african trypanosomiasis, PPAR signaling pathway, and vitamin digestion and absorption. Three proteins, 2-hydroxyacylsphingosine 1-beta-galactosyltransferase (UGT8), Apolipoprotein A-I (APOA1) and Complement C3 (C3) were validated using immunoblotting and immunohistochemical. In conclusion, our study preliminarily investigated the mechanism of benzene toxicity to the nervous system by analyzing DEPs changes in the brain.
PXD037099	38498254	Maize multi-omics reveal leaf water status controlling of differential transcriptomes, proteomes and hormones as mechanisms of age-dependent osmotic stress response in leaves. 	DIA based proteome of maize leaves	osmotic stress	Drought-induced osmotic stress severely affects the growth and yield of maize. However, the mechanisms underlying the different responses of young and old maize leaves to osmotic stress remain unclear. To gain a systematic understanding of age-related stress responses, we compared osmotic-stress-induced changes in maize leaves of different ages using multi-omics approaches. After short-term osmotic stress, old leaves suffered more severe water deficits than young leaves. The adjustments of transcriptomes, proteomes, and hormones in response to osmotic stress were more dynamic in old leaves. Metabolic activities, stress signaling pathways, and hormones (especially abscisic acid) responded to osmotic stress in an age-dependent manner. We identified multiple functional clusters of genes and proteins with potential roles in stress adaptation. Old leaves significantly accumulated stress proteins such as dehydrin, aquaporin, and chaperones to cope with osmotic stress, accompanied by senescence-like cellular events, whereas young leaves exhibited an effective water conservation strategy mainly by hydrolyzing transitory starch and increasing proline production. The stress responses of individual leaves are primarily determined by their intracellular water status, resulting in differential transcriptomes, proteomes, and hormones. This study extends our understanding of the mechanisms underlying plant responses to osmotic stress.
PXD041765	38499530	Evolutionary origin of Hoxc13-dependent skin appendages in amphibians. 	Proteome analysis of claws, clawless toe tips and back skin of Xenopus tropicalis 	claw, hair-keratin-homologs, hoxc13, krt34, krt59, xenopus tropicalis	Cornified skin appendages, such as hair and nails, are major evolutionary innovations of terrestrial vertebrates. Human hair and nails consist largely of special intermediate filament proteins, known as hair keratins, which are expressed under the control of the transcription factor Hoxc13. Here, we show that the cornified claws of Xenopus frogs contain homologs of hair keratins and the genes encoding these keratins are flanked by promoters in which binding sites of Hoxc13 are conserved. Furthermore, these keratins and Hoxc13 are co-expressed in the claw-forming epithelium of frog toe tips. Upon deletion of hoxc13, the expression of hair keratin homologs is abolished and the development of cornified claws is abrogated in X. tropicalis. These results indicate that Hoxc13-dependent expression of hair keratin homologs evolved already in stem tetrapods, presumably as a mechanism for protecting toe tips, and that this ancestral genetic program was coopted to the growth of hair in mammals.
PXD044305	38500700	High diversity, abundance, and expression of hydrogenases in groundwater. 	Proteomics of groundwater microbiomes collected from five wells in Alberta, Canada	groundwater, metagenome-assembled-genomes, metaproteome, metaproteomics	Hydrogen may be the most important electron donor available in the subsurface. Here we analyse the diversity, abundance and expression of hydrogenases in 5 proteomes, 25 metagenomes, and 265 amplicon datasets of groundwaters with diverse geochemistry. A total of 1545 new [NiFe]-hydrogenase gene sequences were recovered, which considerably increased the number of sequences (1999) in a widely used database. [NiFe]-hydrogenases were highly abundant, as abundant as the DNA-directed RNA polymerase. The abundance of hydrogenase genes increased with depth from 0 to 129 m. Hydrogenases were present in 481 out of 1245 metagenome-assembled genomes. The relative abundance of microbes with hydrogenases accounted for ~50% of the entire community. Hydrogenases were actively expressed, making up as much as 5.9% of methanogen proteomes. Most of the newly discovered diversity of hydrogenases was in "Group 3b", which has been associated with sulfur metabolism. "Group 3d", facilitating the interconversion of electrons between hydrogen and NAD, was the most abundant and mainly observed in methanotrophs and chemoautotrophs. "Group 3a", associated with methanogenesis, was the most abundant in proteomes. Two newly discovered groups of [NiFe]-hydrogenases, observed in Methanobacteriaceae and Anaerolineaceae, further expanded diversity. Our results highlight the vast diversity, abundance and expression of hydrogenases in groundwaters, suggesting a high potential for hydrogen oxidation in subsurface habitats.
PXD041211	38501878	Intestinal tissue-resident memory T cells maintain distinct identity from circulating memory T cells after in vitro restimulation. 	Tissue-resident memory T cells maintain identity after in vitro restimulation	CD8+ memory T cells, Hypoxic T cell cultures, T cell metabolism, Tissue-resident memory T cells	Resident memory T (TRM ) cells have been recently established as an important subset of memory T cells that provide early and essential protection against reinfection in the absence of circulating memory T cells. Recent findings showing that TRM expand in vivo after repeated antigenic stimulation indicate that these memory T cells are not terminally differentiated. This suggests an opportunity for in vitro TRM expansion to apply in an immunotherapy setting. However, it has also been shown that TRM may not maintain their identity and form circulating memory T cells after in vivo restimulation. Therefore, we set out to determine how TRM respond to antigenic activation in culture. Using Listeria monocytogenes and LCMV infection models, we found that TRM from the intraepithelial compartment of the small intestine expand in vitro after antigenic stimulation and subsequent resting in homeostatic cytokines. A large fraction of the expanded TRM retained their phenotype, including the expression of key TRM markers CD69 and CD103 (ITGAE). The optimal culture of TRM required low O2 pressure to maintain the expression of these and other TRM -associated molecules. Expanded TRM retained their effector capacity to produce cytokines after restimulation, but did not acquire a highly glycolytic profile indicative of effector T cells. The proteomic analysis confirmed TRM profile retention, including expression of TRM -related transcription factors, tissue retention factors, adhesion molecules, and enzymes involved in fatty acid metabolism. Collectively, our data indicate that limiting oxygen conditions supports in vitro expansion of TRM cells that maintain their TRM phenotype, at least in part, suggesting an opportunity for therapeutic strategies that require in vitro expansion of TRM .
PXD037887	38503283	RNA damage compartmentalization by DHX9 stress granules. 	Stress granules proteome composition	stress granules	Biomolecules incur damage during stress conditions, and damage partitioning represents a vital survival strategy for cells. Here, we identified a distinct stress granule (SG), marked by dsRNA helicase DHX9, which compartmentalizes ultraviolet (UV)-induced RNA, but not DNA, damage. Our FANCI technology revealed that DHX9 SGs are enriched in damaged intron RNA, in contrast to classical SGs that are composed of mature mRNA. UV exposure causes RNA crosslinking damage, impedes intron splicing and decay, and triggers DHX9 SGs within daughter cells. DHX9 SGs promote cell survival and induce dsRNA-related immune response and translation shutdown, differentiating them from classical SGs that assemble downstream of translation arrest. DHX9 modulates dsRNA abundance in the DHX9 SGs and promotes cell viability. Autophagy receptor p62 is activated and important for DHX9 SG disassembly. Our findings establish non-canonical DHX9 SGs as a dedicated non-membrane-bound cytoplasmic compartment that safeguards daughter cells from parental RNA damage.
PXD045111	38503284	Anti-apoptotic MCL-1 promotes long-chain fatty acid oxidation through interaction with ACSL1. 	Proteomic analysis of MCL-1 interactors in liver	AAV, ACSL1, GFP, MCL1, liver	MCL-1 is essential for promoting the survival of many normal cell lineages and confers survival and chemoresistance in cancer. Beyond apoptosis regulation, MCL-1 has been linked to modulating mitochondrial metabolism, but the mechanism(s) by which it does so are unclear. Here, we show in tissues and cells that MCL-1 supports essential steps in long-chain (but not short-chain) fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) through its binding to specific long-chain acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetases of the ACSL family. ACSL1 binds to the BH3-binding hydrophobic groove of MCL-1 through a non-conventional BH3-domain. Perturbation of this interaction, via genetic loss of Mcl1, mutagenesis, or use of selective BH3-mimetic MCL-1 inhibitors, represses long-chain FAO in cells and in mouse livers and hearts. Our findings reveal how anti-apoptotic MCL-1 facilitates mitochondrial metabolism and indicate that disruption of this function may be associated with unanticipated cardiac toxicities of MCL-1 inhibitors in clinical trials.
PXD039088	38503285	Lysosomal damage sensing and lysophagy initiation by SPG20-ITCH. 	Role of ITCH in the endolysosomal damage response	ITCH, LLOMe, Lysosome, Ubiquitin, diGly	Cells respond to lysosomal membrane permeabilization by membrane repair or selective macroautophagy of damaged lysosomes, termed lysophagy, but it is not fully understood how this decision is made. Here, we uncover a pathway in human cells that detects lipid bilayer perturbations in the limiting membrane of compromised lysosomes, which fail to be repaired, and then initiates ubiquitin-triggered lysophagy. We find that SPG20 binds the repair factor IST1 on damaged lysosomes and, importantly, integrates that with the detection of damage-associated lipid-packing defects of the lysosomal membrane. Detection occurs via sensory amphipathic helices in SPG20 before rupture of the membrane. If lipid-packing defects are extensive, such as during lipid peroxidation, SPG20 recruits and activates ITCH, which marks the damaged lysosome with lysine-63-linked ubiquitin chains to initiate lysophagy and thus triages the lysosome for destruction. With SPG20 being linked to neurodegeneration, these findings highlight the relevance of a coordinated lysosomal damage response for cellular homeostasis.
PXD038713	38503329	A nanobody inhibitor of Fascin-1 actin-bundling activity and filopodia formation. 	A Nanobody inhibitor of Fascin-1 actin-bundling activity and filopodia formation	fascin-1, hdx, hydrogen deuterium exchange, nanobody	Fascin-1-mediated actin-bundling activity is central to the generation of plasma membrane protrusions required for cell migration. Dysregulated formation of cellular protrusions is observed in metastatic cancers, where they are required for increased invasiveness, and is often correlated with increased Fascin-1 abundance. Therefore, there is interest in generating therapeutic Fascin-1 inhibitors. We present the identification of Nb 3E11, a nanobody inhibitor of Fascin-1 actin-bundling activity and filopodia formation. The crystal structure of the Fascin-1/Nb 3E11 complex reveals the structural mechanism of inhibition. Nb 3E11 occludes an actin-binding site on the third beta-trefoil domain of Fascin-1 that is currently not targeted by chemical inhibitors. Binding of Nb 3E11 to Fascin-1 induces a conformational change in the adjacent domains to stabilize Fascin-1 in an inhibitory state similar to that adopted in the presence of small-molecule inhibitors. Nb 3E11 could be used as a tool inhibitor molecule to aid in the development of Fascin-1 targeted therapeutics.
PXD044441	38503738	Long-term effects of Omicron BA.2 breakthrough infection on immunity-metabolism balance: a 6-month prospective study. 	Long-Term Effects of Omicron BA.2 Breakthrough Infection on Immunity-Metabolism Balance	Omicron sub-variant BA.2, SARS-CoV-2, breakthrough infection, long COVID	There have been reports of long coronavirus disease (long COVID) and breakthrough infections (BTIs); however, the mechanisms and pathological features of long COVID after Omicron BTIs remain unclear. Assessing long-term effects of COVID-19 and immune recovery after Omicron BTIs is crucial for understanding the disease and managing new-generation vaccines. Here, we followed up mild BA.2 BTI convalescents for six-month with routine blood tests, proteomic analysis and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). We found that major organs exhibited ephemeral dysfunction and recovered to normal in approximately six-month after BA.2 BTI. We also observed durable and potent levels of neutralizing antibodies against major circulating sub-variants, indicating that hybrid humoral immunity stays active. However, platelets may take longer to recover based on proteomic analyses, which also shows coagulation disorder and an imbalance between anti-pathogen immunity and metabolism six-month after BA.2 BTI. The immunity-metabolism imbalance was then confirmed with retrospective analysis of abnormal levels of hormones, low blood glucose level and coagulation profile. The long-term malfunctional coagulation and imbalance in the material metabolism and immunity may contribute to the development of long COVID and act as useful indicator for assessing recovery and the long-term impacts after Omicron sub-variant BTIs.
PXD034815	38504332	Contigs directed gene annotation (ConDiGA) for accurate protein sequence database construction in metaproteomics. 	Accurate Taxonomic Annotation from Metagenomic Data for Deep Metaproteomic Coverage of Microbiota	Database optimization, Metaproteomics, Taxonomic annotation	BACKGROUND: Microbiota are closely associated with human health and disease. Metaproteomics can provide a direct means to identify microbial proteins in microbiota for compositional and functional characterization. However, in-depth and accurate metaproteomics is still limited due to the extreme complexity and high diversity of microbiota samples. It is generally recommended to use metagenomic data from the same samples to construct the protein sequence database for metaproteomic data analysis. Although different metagenomics-based database construction strategies have been developed, an optimization of gene taxonomic annotation has not been reported, which, however, is extremely important for accurate metaproteomic analysis. RESULTS: Herein, we proposed an accurate taxonomic annotation pipeline for genes from metagenomic data, namely contigs directed gene annotation (ConDiGA), and used the method to build a protein sequence database for metaproteomic analysis. We compared our pipeline (ConDiGA or MD3) with two other popular annotation pipelines (MD1 and MD2). In MD1, genes were directly annotated against the whole bacterial genome database; in MD2, contigs were annotated against the whole bacterial genome database and the taxonomic information of contigs was assigned to the genes; in MD3, the most confident species from the contigs annotation results were taken as reference to annotate genes. Annotation tools, including BLAST, Kaiju, and Kraken2, were compared. Based on a synthetic microbial community of 12 species, it was found that Kaiju with the MD3 pipeline outperformed the others in the construction of protein sequence database from metagenomic data. Similar performance was also observed with a fecal sample, as well as in silico mixed datasets of the simulated microbial community and the fecal sample. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, we developed an optimized pipeline for gene taxonomic annotation to construct protein sequence databases. Our study can tackle the current taxonomic annotation reliability problem in metagenomics-derived protein sequence database and can promote the in-depth metaproteomic analysis of microbiome. The unique metagenomic and metaproteomic datasets of the 12 bacterial species are publicly available as a standard benchmarking sample for evaluating various analysis pipelines. The code of ConDiGA is open access at GitHub for the analysis of microbiota samples. Video Abstract.
PXD050429	38507478	ERK-activated CK-2 triggers blastema formation during appendage regeneration. 	ERK binding protein identification	ERK binding protein, Periplaneta americana, regeneration	Appendage regeneration relies on the formation of blastema, a heterogeneous cellular structure formed at the injury site. However, little is known about the early injury-activated signaling pathways that trigger blastema formation during appendage regeneration. Here, we provide compelling evidence that the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-activated casein kinase 2 (CK-2), which has not been previously implicated in appendage regeneration, triggers blastema formation during leg regeneration in the American cockroach, Periplaneta americana. After amputation, CK-2 undergoes rapid activation through ERK-induced phosphorylation within blastema cells. RNAi knockdown of CK-2 severely impairs blastema formation by repressing cell proliferation through down-regulating mitosis-related genes. Evolutionarily, the regenerative role of CK-2 is conserved in zebrafish caudal fin regeneration via promoting blastema cell proliferation. Together, we find and demonstrate that the ERK-activated CK-2 triggers blastema formation in both cockroach and zebrafish, helping explore initiation factors during appendage regeneration.
PXD042316	38508137	DNAJB1-PRKACA fusion neoantigens elicit rare endogenous T cell responses that potentiate cell therapy for fibrolamellar carcinoma. 	Presentation of DNAJB1-PRKACA fusion neoantigens by different HLA class I alleles	CD8 T cell, DNAJB1-PRKACA, Fibrolamellar carcinoma, HLA class I, fusion neoantigens	Fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is a liver tumor with a high mortality burden and few treatment options. A promising therapeutic vulnerability in FLC is its driver mutation, a conserved DNAJB1-PRKACA gene fusion that could be an ideal target neoantigen for immunotherapy. In this study, we aim to define endogenous CD8 T cell responses to this fusion in FLC patients and evaluate fusion-specific T cell receptors (TCRs) for use in cellular immunotherapies. We observe that fusion-specific CD8 T cells are rare and that FLC patient TCR repertoires lack large clusters of related TCR sequences characteristic of potent antigen-specific responses, potentially explaining why endogenous immune responses are insufficient to clear FLC tumors. Nevertheless, we define two functional fusion-specific TCRs, one of which has strong anti-tumor activity in vivo. Together, our results provide insights into the fragmented nature of neoantigen-specific repertoires in humans and indicate routes for clinical development of successful immunotherapies for FLC.
PXD047462	38509783	Proteomic workflows for deep phenotypic profiling of 3D organotypic liver models. 	Proteomic workflows for deep phenotypic profiling of 3D organotypic liver models	hepatocyte, organoid	Organotypic human tissue models constitute promising systems to facilitate drug discovery and development. They allow to maintain native cellular phenotypes and functions, which enables long-term pharmacokinetic and toxicity studies, as well as phenotypic screening. To trace relevant phenotypic changes back to specific targets or signaling pathways, comprehensive proteomic profiling is the gold-standard. A multitude of proteomic workflows have been applied on 3D tissue models to quantify their molecular phenotypes; however, their impact on analytical results and biological conclusions in this context has not been evaluated. The performance of twelve mass spectrometry-based global proteomic workflows that differed in the amount of cellular input, lysis protocols and quantification methods was compared for the analysis of primary human liver spheroids. Results differed majorly between protocols in the total number and subcellular compartment bias of identified proteins, which is particularly relevant for the reliable quantification of transporters and drug metabolizing enzymes. Using a model of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease, we furthermore show that critical disease pathways are robustly identified using a standardized high throughput-compatible workflow based on thermal lysis, even using only individual spheroids (1500 cells) as input. The results increase the applicability of proteomic profiling to phenotypic screens in organotypic microtissues and provide a scalable platform for deep phenotyping from limited biological material.
PXD047887	38509878	Integrated network pharmacology and phosphoproteomic analyses of Baichanting in Parkinson's disease model mice. 	Integrated Network Pharmacology and Phosphoproteomic Analyses of Baichanting in Parkinson's Disease Model Mice	Baichanting compound, Parkinson's disease, apoptosis, phosphorylation	The incidence rate of Parkinson's disease (PD) is increasing yearly. Neuronal apoptosis caused by abnormal protein phosphorylation is closely related to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. At present, few PD-specific apoptosis pathways have been revealed. To investigate the effect of Baichanting (BCT) on apoptosis from the perspective of protein phosphorylation, alpha-syn transgenic mice were selected to observe the behavioral changes of the mice, and the apoptosis of substantia nigra cells were detected by the HE method and TUNEL method. Network pharmacology combined with phosphorylation proteomics was used to find relevant targets for BCT treatment of PD and was further verified by PRM and western blotting. BCT improved the morphology of neurons in the substantia nigra and reduced neuronal apoptosis. The main enriched pathways in the network pharmacology results were apoptosis, the p53 signaling pathway and autophagy. Western blot results showed that BCT significantly regulated the protein expression levels of BAX, Caspase-3, LC3B, P53 and mTOR and upregulated autophagy to alleviate apoptosis. Using phosphorylated proteomics and PRM validation, we found that Pak5, Grin2b, Scn1a, BcaN, L1cam and Braf are closely correlated with the targets of the web-based pharmacological screen and may be involved in p53/mTOR-mediated autophagy and apoptosis pathways. BCT can inhibit the activation of the p53/mTOR signaling pathway, thereby enhancing the autophagy function of cells, and reducing the apoptosis of neurons which is the main mechanism of its neuroprotective effect.
PXD045159	38509933	Impact of anesthetics on rat hippocampus and neocortex: A comprehensive proteomic study based on label-free mass spectrometry. 	Impact of anesthetics on rat hippocampus and neocortex: a comprehensive proteomic study based on label-free mass spectrometry	GABA signaling, Label-free proteomics, NMDAR, VDAC, anesthetics, apoptosis, hippocampus, long-term potentiation, neocortex	Anesthesia is regarded as an important milestone in medicine. However, the negative effect on memory and learning has been observed. In addition, the impact of anesthetics on postoperative cognitive functions is still discussed. In this work, in vivo experiment simulating a general anesthesia and ICU sedation was designed to assess the impact of two intravenous (midazolam, dexmedetomidine) and two inhalational (isoflurane, desflurane) agents on neuronal centers for cognition (neocortex), learning, and memory (hippocampus). More than 3600 proteins were quantified across both neocortex and hippocampus. Proteomic study revealed relatively mild effects of anesthetics, nevertheless, protein dysregulation uncovered possible different effect of isoflurane (and midazolam) compared to desflurane (and dexmedetomidine) to neocortical and hippocampal proteins. Isoflurane induced the upregulation of hippocampal NMDAR and other proteins of postsynaptic density and downregulation of GABA signaling, whereas desflurane and dexmedetomidine rather targeted mitochondrial VDAC isoforms and protein regulating apoptotic activity.
PXD050010	38510131	MYC dependency in GLS1 and NAMPT is a therapeutic vulnerability in multiple myeloma. 	MYC dependency in GLS1 and NAMPT is a therapeutic vulnerability in multiple myeloma	GLS1, MYC, MYC overexpression, NAMPT, TMT spectrometry, U266, cellular metabolism, gene dependency, multiple myeloma	Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable hematological malignancy in which MYC alterations contribute to the malignant phenotype. Nevertheless, MYC lacks therapeutic druggability. Here, we leveraged large-scale loss-of-function screens and conducted a small molecule screen to identify genes and pathways with enhanced essentiality correlated with MYC expression. We reported a specific gene dependency in glutaminase (GLS1), essential for the viability and proliferation of MYC overexpressing cells. Conversely, the analysis of isogenic models, as well as cell lines dataset (CCLE) and patient datasets, revealed GLS1 as a non-oncogenic dependency in MYC-driven cells. We functionally delineated the differential modulation of glutamine to maintain mitochondrial function and cellular biosynthesis in MYC overexpressing cells. Furthermore, we observed that pharmaceutical inhibition of NAMPT selectively affects MYC upregulated cells. We demonstrate the effectiveness of combining GLS1 and NAMPT inhibitors, suggesting that targeting glutaminolysis and NAD synthesis may be a promising strategy to target MYC-driven MM.
PXD048957	38510959	Unveiling the antibacterial mechanism of resveratrol against Aeromonas hydrophila through proteomics analysis. 	Resveratrol against Aeromonas hydrophila through proteomics analysis	Aeromonas hydrophila, Resveratrol	This investigation delves into elucidating the mechanism by which resveratrol (Res), a natural polyterpenoid renowned for its antimicrobial properties, exerts its effects on Aeromonas hydrophila, a ubiquitous waterborne pathogen. Our findings underscore the dose-dependent manifestation of resveratrol in exhibiting antibacterial and antibiofilm formation activities against A. hydrophila. Employing a Data-independent acquisition (DIA) based quantitative proteomics methodology, we systematically compared differentially expressed proteins in A. hydrophila subjected to varying concentrations of Res. Subsequent bioinformatics analyses revealed key proteins and pathways pivotal in resveratrol's antimicrobial action, encompassing oxidative stress, energy metabolism, and cell membrane integrity. Validation of the proteomics outcomes was meticulously conducted using the qPCR method at the mRNA level. Dynamic trend analysis unveiled alterations in biological processes, notably the correlation between the cell division-related protein ZapC and resveratrol content. Furthermore, scanning electron microscopy corroborated a significant elongation of A. hydrophila cells, affirming resveratrol's capability to inhibit cell division. In concert, resveratrol emerges as a participant in the cell membrane integrity pathway, biofilm formation, and potentially, the regulation of genes associated with cell division, resulting in morphological elongation. These revelations position resveratrol as a promising natural alternative to conventional antibiotics for treating A. hydrophila infections.
PXD046549	38511558	Extracellular vesicles from virulent P. brasiliensis induce TLR4 and dectin-1 expression in innate cells and promote enhanced Th1/Th17 response. 	Extracellular vesicules proteomic profile of P. brasiliensis yeasts recovered from granulomatous lesions of C57BL/6 WT mice	Extracellular vesicles, Granuloma, Paracoccidioides brasiliensis	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-enclosed nanoparticles that transport several biomolecules and are involved in important mechanisms and functions related to the pathophysiology of fungal diseases. EVs from Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, the main causative agent of Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM), modulate the immune response of macrophages. In this study, we assessed the EVs proteome from a virulent P. brasiliensis isolated from granulomatous lesions and compared their immunomodulatory ability with EVs isolated from the fungus before the animal passage (control EVs) when challenging macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). Proteome showed that virulent EVs have a higher abundance of virulence factors such as GP43, protein 14-3-3, GAPDH, as well as virulence factors never described in PCM, such as aspartyl aminopeptidase and a SidJ analogue compared with control EVs. Virulent extracellular vesicles induced higher expression of TLR4 and Dectin-1 than control EVs in macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). In opposition, a lower TLR2 expression was induced by virulent EVs. Additionally, virulent EVs induced lower expression of CD80, CD86 and TNF-alpha, but promoted a higher expression of IL-6 and IL-10, suggesting that EVs isolated from virulent P. brasiliensis-yeast promote a milder DCs and macrophage maturation. Herein, we showed that EVs from virulent fungi stimulated a higher frequency of Th1/Tc1, Th17, and Treg cells, which gives new insights into fungal extracellular vesicles. Taken together, our results suggest that P. brasiliensis utilizes its EVs as virulence bags that manipulate the immune system in its favour, creating a milder immune response and helping with fungal evasion from the immune system.
PXD051070	38512356	Integrated plasma proteomics identifies tuberculosis-specific diagnostic biomarkers. 	Non-depleted human plasma proteome of pulmonary tuberculosis	Biomarkers, Plasma, Tuberculosis	Novel biomarkers to identify infectious patients transmitting Mycobacterium tuberculosis are urgently needed to control the global tuberculosis (TB) pandemic. We hypothesized that proteins released into the plasma in active pulmonary TB are clinically useful biomarkers to distinguish TB cases from healthy individuals and patients with other respiratory infections. We applied a highly sensitive non-depletion tandem mass spectrometry discovery approach to investigate plasma protein expression in pulmonary TB cases compared to healthy controls in South African and Peruvian cohorts. Bioinformatic analysis using linear modelling and network correlation analyses identified 118 differentially expressed proteins, significant through three complementary analytical pipelines. Candidate biomarkers were subsequently analysed in two validation cohorts of differing ethnicity using antibody-based proximity extension assays. TB-specific host biomarkers were confirmed. A six-protein diagnostic panel, comprising FETUB, FCGR3B, LRG1, SELL, CD14 and ADA2, differentiated patients with pulmonary TB from healthy controls and patients with other respiratory infections with high sensitivity and specificity in both cohorts. This biomarker panel exceeds the World Health Organisation Target Product Profile specificity criteria for a triage test for TB. The new biomarkers have potential for further development as near-patient TB screening assays, thereby helping to close the case-detection gap that fuels the global pandemic.
PXD041248	38513134	Platelet proteomic profiling in sitosterolemia suggests thrombocytopenia is driven by lipid disorder and not platelet aberrations. 	immune thrombocytopenia in sitosterolemia is driven by lipid disorder and not proteomic aberrations	platelet proteomics, sitosterolemia	Sitosterolemia is a rare autosomal-recessive genetic disorder in which patients develop hypercholesterolemia, and may exhibit abnormal hematologic and/or liver test results. In this disease, dysfunction of either ABCG5 or ABCG8 results in intestinal hyperabsorption of all sterols, including cholesterol and more specifically plant sterols or xenosterols, as well as in the impaired ability to excrete xenosterols into the bile. It remains unknown how and why some patients develop hematologic abnormalities. Only a few unrelated patients with hematologic abnormalities at the time of diagnosis have been reported. Here, we report on two unrelated pedigrees who were believed to have chronic immune thrombocytopenia as most prominent feature. Both consanguineous families showed recessive gene variants in ABCG5, that were associated with disease by in-silico protein structure analysis as well as clinical segregation. Hepatosplenomegaly was absent. Thrombopoietin levels and megakaryocyte numbers in bone marrow were normal. Metabolic analysis confirmed the presence of strongly elevated plasma levels of xenosterols. Potential platelet proteomic aberrations were longitudinally assessed following dietary restrictions combined with the administration of the sterol absorption inhibitor ezetimibe. No significant effects on platelet protein content before and after onset of treatment were demonstrated. Although we cannot exclude that lipotoxicity has a direct and platelet-specific impact in patients with sitosterolemia, our data suggest that the thrombocytopenia is neither caused by a lack of megakaryocytes nor driven by proteomic aberrations of the platelets themselves.
PXD043180	38513256	Proteome trait regulation of marine Synechococcus elemental stoichiometry under global change. 	Temperature (20-28C) and nutrient stress (N- and P-stress) on Synechococcus WH8102	LCMSMS, Synechococcus WH8102, environmental	Recent studies have demonstrated regional differences in marine ecosystem C:N:P with implications for carbon and nutrient cycles. Due to strong co-variance, temperature and nutrient stress explain variability in C:N:P equally well. A reductionistic approach can link changes in individual environmental drivers with changes in biochemical traits and cell C:N:P. Thus, we quantified effects of temperature and nutrient stress on Synechococcus chemistry using laboratory chemostats, chemical analyses, and data-independent-acquisition mass-spectrometry proteomics. Nutrient supply accounted for most C:N:Pcell variability and induced tradeoffs between nutrient acquisition and ribosomal proteins. High temperature prompted heat-shock, whereas thermal effects via the "translation-compensation hypothesis" was only seen under P-stress. A Nonparametric Bayesian Local Clustering algorithm suggested that changes in lipopolysaccharides, peptidoglycans, and C-rich compatible solutes may also contribute to C:N:P regulation. Physiological responses match field-based trends in ecosystem stoichiometry and suggest a hierarchical environmental regulation of current and future ocean C:N:P.
PXD050276	38513301	Detection of endometrial cancer in cervico-vaginal fluid and blood plasma: leveraging proteomics and machine learning for biomarker discovery. 	Proteomic datasets for the identification of endometrial cancer in minimally invasive samples (cervico-vaginal fluid and blood plasma).	Endometrial cancer, SWATH, cervico-vaginal fluid, plasma	BACKGROUND: The anatomical continuity between the uterine cavity and the lower genital tract allows for the exploitation of uterine-derived biomaterial in cervico-vaginal fluid for endometrial cancer detection based on non-invasive sampling methodologies. Plasma is an attractive biofluid for cancer detection due to its simplicity and ease of collection. In this biomarker discovery study, we aimed to identify proteomic signatures that accurately discriminate endometrial cancer from controls in cervico-vaginal fluid and blood plasma. METHODS: Blood plasma and Delphi Screener-collected cervico-vaginal fluid samples were acquired from symptomatic post-menopausal women with (n = 53) and without (n = 65) endometrial cancer. Digitised proteomic maps were derived for each sample using sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH-MS). Machine learning was employed to identify the most discriminatory proteins. The best diagnostic model was determined based on accuracy and model parsimony. FINDINGS: A protein signature derived from cervico-vaginal fluid more accurately discriminated cancer from control samples than one derived from plasma. A 5-biomarker panel of cervico-vaginal fluid derived proteins (HPT, LG3BP, FGA, LY6D and IGHM) predicted endometrial cancer with an AUC of 0.95 (0.91-0.98), sensitivity of 91% (83%-98%), and specificity of 86% (78%-95%). By contrast, a 3-marker panel of plasma proteins (APOD, PSMA7 and HPT) predicted endometrial cancer with an AUC of 0.87 (0.81-0.93), sensitivity of 75% (64%-86%), and specificity of 84% (75%-93%). The parsimonious model AUC values for detection of stage I endometrial cancer in cervico-vaginal fluid and blood plasma were 0.92 (0.87-0.97) and 0.88 (0.82-0.95) respectively. INTERPRETATION: Here, we leveraged the natural shed of endometrial tumours to potentially develop an innovative approach to endometrial cancer detection. We show proof of principle that endometrial cancers secrete unique protein signatures that can enable cancer detection via cervico-vaginal fluid assays. Confirmation in a larger independent cohort is warranted. FUNDING: Cancer Research UK, Blood Cancer UK, National Institute for Health Research.
PXD047627	38514245	Solid-Phase Microextraction-Aided Capillary Zone Electrophoresis-Mass Spectrometry: Toward Bottom-Up Proteomics of Single Human Cells. 	Solid phase microextraction-aided capillary zone electrophoresis-mass spectrometry: ready for bottom-up proteomics of single human cells	Bottom-up proteomics, HeLa, Single cell proteomics, Solid phase microextraction, mass limited	Capillary zone electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (CZE-MS) has been recognized as a valuable technique for the proteomics of mass-limited biological samples (i.e., single cells). However, its broad adoption for single cell proteomics (SCP) of human cells has been impeded by the low sample loading capacity of CZE, only allowing us to use less than 5% of the available peptide material for each measurement. Here we present a reversed-phase-based solid-phase microextraction (RP-SPME)-CZE-MS platform to solve the issue, paving the way for SCP of human cells using CZE-MS. The RP-SPME-CZE system was constructed in one fused silica capillary with zero dead volume for connection via in situ synthesis of a frit, followed by packing C8 beads into the capillary to form a roughly 2 mm long SPME section. Peptides captured by SPME were eluted with a buffer containing 30% (v/v) acetonitrile and 50 mM ammonium acetate (pH 6.5), followed by dynamic pH junction-based CZE-MS. The SPME-CZE-MS enabled the injection of nearly 40% of the available peptide sample for each measurement. The system identified 257 +/- 24 proteins and 523 +/- 69 peptides (N = 2) using a Q-Exactive HF mass spectrometer when only 0.25 ng of a commercial HeLa cell digest was available in the sample vial and 0.1 ng of the sample was injected. The amount of available peptide is equivalent to the protein mass of one HeLa cell. The data indicate that SPME-CZE-MS is ready for SCP of human cells.
PXD048485	38514606	The EIF3H-HAX1 axis increases RAF-MEK-ERK signaling activity to promote colorectal cancer progression. 	HAX1-interactome in Colorectal Cancer cell line (HCT116)	Colorectal Cancer cell line, HAX1-interactome, HCT116	Eukaryotic initiation translation factor 3 subunit h (EIF3H) plays critical roles in regulating translational initiation and predicts poor cancer prognosis, but the mechanism underlying EIF3H tumorigenesis remains to be further elucidated. Here, we report that EIF3H is overexpressed in colorectal cancer (CRC) and correlates with poor prognosis. Conditional Eif3h deletion suppresses colorectal tumorigenesis in AOM/DSS model. Mechanistically, EIF3H functions as a deubiquitinase for HAX1 and stabilizes HAX1 via antagonizing betaTrCP-mediated ubiquitination, which enhances the interaction between RAF1, MEK1 and ERK1, thereby potentiating phosphorylation of ERK1/2. In addition, activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling induces EIF3H expression. EIF3H/HAX1 axis promotes CRC tumorigenesis and metastasis in mouse orthotopic cancer model. Significantly, combined targeting Wnt and RAF1-ERK1/2 signaling synergistically inhibits tumor growth in EIF3H-high patient-derived xenografts. These results uncover the important roles of EIF3H in mediating CRC progression through regulating HAX1 and RAF1-ERK1/2 signaling. EIF3H represents a promising therapeutic target and prognostic marker in CRC.
PXD049436	38514628	Mutational scanning pinpoints distinct binding sites of key ATGL regulators in lipolysis. 	Mutational scanning pinpoints distinct binding sites of key ATGL regulators in lipolysis	ATGL, CGI-58, CIDEC, Deep Mutagenesis, G0S2, PLIN1, PLIN5	ATGL is a key enzyme in intracellular lipolysis and plays an important role in metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. ATGL is tightly regulated by a known set of protein-protein interaction partners with activating or inhibiting functions in the control of lipolysis. Here, we use deep mutational protein interaction perturbation scanning and generate comprehensive profiles of single amino acid variants that affect the interactions of ATGL with its regulatory partners: CGI-58, G0S2, PLIN1, PLIN5 and CIDEC. Twenty-three ATGL amino acid variants yield a specific interaction perturbation pattern when validated in co-immunoprecipitation experiments in mammalian cells. We identify and characterize eleven highly selective ATGL switch mutations which affect the interaction of one of the five partners without affecting the others. Switch mutations thus provide distinct interaction determinants for ATGL's key regulatory proteins at an amino acid resolution. When we test triglyceride hydrolase activity in vitro and lipolysis in cells, the activity patterns of the ATGL switch variants trace to their protein interaction profile. In the context of structural data, the integration of variant binding and activity profiles provides insights into the regulation of lipolysis and the impact of mutations in human disease.
PXD040575	38514682	Human dental pulp stem cells derived extracellular matrix promotes mineralization via Hippo and Wnt pathways. 	Extracellular matrix derived from oral mesenchymal stem cells	Dental pulp stem cells (DPCSs), Extracellular matrix (ECM), Gingival stem cells (GSCs)	Extracellular matrix (ECM) is an intricate structure providing the microenvironment niche that influences stem cell differentiation. This study aimed to investigate the efficacy of decellularized ECM derived from human dental pulp stem cells (dECM_DPSCs) and gingival-derived mesenchymal stem cells (dECM_GSCs) as an inductive scaffold for osteogenic differentiation of GSCs. The proteomic analysis demonstrated that common and signature matrisome proteins from dECM_DPSCs and dECM_GSCs were related to osteogenesis/osteogenic differentiation. RNA sequencing data from GSCs reseeded on dECM_DPSCs revealed that dECM_DPSCs upregulated genes related to the Hippo and Wnt signaling pathways in GSCs. In the inhibitor experiments, results revealed that dECM_DPSCs superiorly promoted GSCs osteogenic differentiation, mainly mediated through Hippo and Wnt signaling. The present study emphasizes the promising translational application of dECM_DPSCs as a bio-scaffold rich in favorable regenerative microenvironment for tissue engineering.
PXD048335	38517968	Peripheral priming induces plastic transcriptomic and proteomic responses in circulating neutrophils required for pathogen containment. 	Peripheral priming induces plastic transcriptomic and proteomic responses in circulating neutrophils required for pathogen containment	Neutrophils - transcriptomic plasticity - sepsis - infectious disease - multiOmics	Neutrophils rapidly respond to inflammation and infection, but to which degree their functional trajectories after mobilization from the bone marrow are shaped within the circulation remains vague. Experimental limitations have so far hampered neutrophil research in human disease. Here, using innovative fixation and single-cell-based toolsets, we profile human and murine neutrophil transcriptomes and proteomes during steady state and bacterial infection. We find that peripheral priming of circulating neutrophils leads to dynamic shifts dominated by conserved up-regulation of antimicrobial genes across neutrophil substates, facilitating pathogen containment. We show the TLR4/NF-kappaB signaling-dependent up-regulation of canonical neutrophil activation markers like CD177/NB-1 during acute inflammation, resulting in functional shifts in vivo. Blocking de novo RNA synthesis in circulating neutrophils abrogates these plastic shifts and prevents the adaptation of antibacterial neutrophil programs by up-regulation of distinct effector molecules upon infection. These data underline transcriptional plasticity as a relevant mechanism of functional neutrophil reprogramming during acute infection to foster bacterial containment within the circulation.
PXD044633	38518286	The Origin and Evolution of Sex Peptide and Sex Peptide Receptor Interactions. 	The origin and evolution of the interactions between sex peptide and sex peptide receptor	In fruit flies, Post-mating responses, sex peptide (SP), sex peptide receptor (SPR)	Post-mating responses play a vital role in successful reproduction across diverse species. In fruit flies, sex peptide (SP) binds to the sex peptide receptor (SPR), triggering a series of post-mating responses. However, the origin of SPR predates the emergence of SP. The evolutionary origins of the interactions between SP and SPR and the mechanisms by which they interact remain enigmatic. In this study, we used ancestral sequence reconstruction, AlphaFold2 predictions, and molecular dynamics simulations to study SP-SPR interactions and their origination. Using AlphaFold2 and long-time molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we predicted the structure and dynamics of SP-SPR interactions. We show that SP potentially binds to the ancestral states of Diptera SPR. Notably, we found that only a few amino acid changes in SPR are sufficient for the formation of SP-SPR interactions. Ancestral sequence reconstruction and MD simulations further reveal that SPR interacts with SP through residues that are mostly involved in the interaction interface of an ancestral ligand, myoinhibitory peptides (MIPs). We propose a potential mechanism whereby SP-SPR interactions arise from the pre-existing MIP-SPR interface as well as early chance events both inside and outside the pre-existing interface that created novel SP-specific SP-SPR interactions. Our findings provide new insights into the origin and evolution of SP-SPR interactions and their relationship with MIP-SPR interactions.
PXD032285	38519482	Proteomic profiling reveals that ESR1 mutations enhance cyclin-dependent kinase signaling. 	Phosphoproteome characterization of ESR1 mutated breast cancer cells	ESR1 mutations, breast cancer, phosphoproteome	Three quarters of all breast cancers express the estrogen receptor (ER, ESR1 gene), which promotes tumor growth and constitutes a direct target for endocrine therapies. ESR1 mutations have been implicated in therapy resistance in metastatic breast cancer, in particular to aromatase inhibitors. ESR1 mutations promote constitutive ER activity and affect other signaling pathways, allowing cancer cells to proliferate by employing mechanisms within and without direct regulation by the ER. Although subjected to extensive genetic and transcriptomic analyses, understanding of protein alterations remains poorly investigated. Towards this, we employed an integrated mass spectrometry based proteomic approach to profile the protein and phosphoprotein differences in breast cancer cell lines expressing the frequent Y537N and Y537S ER mutations. Global proteome analysis revealed enrichment of mitotic and immune signaling pathways in ER mutant cells, while phosphoprotein analysis evidenced enriched activity of proliferation associated kinases, in particular CDKs and mTOR. Integration of protein expression and phosphorylation data revealed pathway-dependent discrepancies (motility vs proliferation) that were observed at varying degrees across mutant and wt ER cells. Additionally, protein expression and phosphorylation patterns, while under different regulation, still recapitulated the estrogen-independent phenotype of ER mutant cells. Our study is the first proteome-centric characterization of ESR1 mutant models, out of which we confirm estrogen independence of ER mutants and reveal the enrichment of immune signaling pathways at the proteomic level.
PXD047209	38519490	The aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 rs671 variant enhances amyloid beta pathology. 	Proteome profiling of N2a pretreated with ALDH2	N2a	In the ALDH2 rs671 variant, a guanine changes to an adenine, resulting in a dramatic decrease in the catalytic activity of the enzyme. Population-based data are contradictory about whether this variant increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease. In East Asian populations, the prevalence of the ALDH2 rs671 variant is 30-50%, making the National Human Brain Bank for Development and Function (the largest brain bank in East Asia) an important resource to explore the link between the ALDH2 rs671 polymorphism and Alzheimer's disease pathology. Here, using 469 postmortem brains, we find that while the ALDH2 rs671 variant is associated with increased plaque deposits and a higher Abeta40/42 ratio, it is not an independent risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Mechanistically, we show that lower ALDH2 activity leads to 4-HNE accumulation in the brain. The (R)-4-HNE enantiomer adducts to residue Lys53 of C99, favoring Abeta40 generation in the Golgi apparatus. Decreased ALDH2 activity also lowers inflammatory factor secretion, as well as amyloid beta phagocytosis and spread in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. We thus define the relationship between the ALDH2 rs671 polymorphism and amyloid beta pathology, and find that ALDH2 rs671 is a key regulator of Abeta40 or Abeta42 generation.
PXD040074	38519521	A fungal core effector exploits the OsPUX8B.2-OsCDC48-6 module to suppress plant immunity. 	Proximity labeling of OsPUX8B.2 interacting proteins with TurboID	Magnaporthe oryzae, MoNLE1, OsBHT, OsCDC48-6, OsPUX8B.2, Rice (Oryza sativa japonica), UBX domain, effector	Proteins containing a ubiquitin regulatory X (UBX) domain are cofactors of Cell Division Cycle 48 (CDC48) and function in protein quality control. However, whether and how UBX-containing proteins participate in host-microbe interactions remain unclear. Here we show that MoNLE1, an effector from the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae, is a core virulence factor that suppresses rice immunity by specifically interfering with OsPUX8B.2. The UBX domain of OsPUX8B.2 is required for its binding to OsATG8 and OsCDC48-6 and controls its 26 S proteasome-dependent stability. OsPUX8B.2 and OsCDC48-6 positively regulate plant immunity against blast fungus, while the high-temperature tolerance heat-shock protein OsBHT, a putative cytoplasmic substrate of OsPUX8B.2-OsCDC48-6, negatively regulates defense against blast infection. MoNLE1 promotes the nuclear migration and degradation of OsPUX8B.2 and disturbs its association with OsBHT. Given the high conservation of MoNLE1 among fungal isolates, plants with broad and durable blast resistance might be generated by engineering intracellular proteins resistant to MoNLE1.
PXD042728	38521003	Concurrent inhibition of ALK and SRC kinases disrupts the ALK lung tumor cell proteome. 	Disruption of the ALK tumor cell proteome by concurrent inhibation of ALK and SRC kinases	(phospho)proteomics, EML4-ALK, Precision oncology, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKIs)	Precision oncology has revolutionized the treatment of ALK-positive lung cancer with targeted therapies. However, an unmet clinical need still to address is the treatment of refractory tumors that contain drug-induced resistant mutations in the driver oncogene or exhibit resistance through the activation of diverse mechanisms. In this study, we established mouse tumor-derived cell models representing the two most prevalent EML4-ALK variants in human lung adenocarcinomas and characterized their proteomic profiles to gain insights into the underlying resistance mechanisms. We showed that Eml4-Alk variant 3 confers a worse response to ALK inhibitors, suggesting its role in promoting resistance to targeted therapy. In addition, proteomic analysis of brigatinib-treated cells revealed the upregulation of SRC kinase, a protein frequently activated in cancer. Co-targeting of ALK and SRC showed remarkable inhibitory effects in both ALK-driven murine and ALK-patient-derived lung tumor cells. This combination induced cell death through a multifaceted mechanism characterized by profound perturbation of the (phospho)proteomic landscape and a synergistic suppressive effect on the mTOR pathway. Our study demonstrates that the simultaneous inhibition of ALK and SRC can potentially overcome resistance mechanisms and enhance clinical outcomes in ALK-positive lung cancer patients. ONE SENTENCE SUMMARY: Co-targeting ALK and SRC enhances ALK inhibitor response in lung cancer by affecting the proteomic profile, offering hope for overcoming resistance and improving clinical outcomes.
PXD050530	38521783	Ion mobility-tandem mass spectrometry of mucin-type O-glycans. 	Ion Mobility-Tandem Mass Spectrometry of Mucin-type O-Glycans	DDA, O-glycans, ion mobility, isomeric separation	The dense O-glycosylation of mucins plays an important role in the defensive properties of the mucus hydrogel. Aberrant glycosylation is often correlated with inflammation and pathology such as COPD, cancer, and Crohn's disease. The inherent complexity of glycans and the diversity in the O-core structure constitute fundamental challenges for the analysis of mucin-type O-glycans. Due to coexistence of multiple isomers, multidimensional workflows such as LC-MS are required. To separate the highly polar carbohydrates, porous graphitized carbon is often used as a stationary phase. However, LC-MS workflows are time-consuming and lack reproducibility. Here we present a rapid alternative for separating and identifying O-glycans released from mucins based on trapped ion mobility mass spectrometry. Compared to established LC-MS, the acquisition time is reduced from an hour to two minutes. To test the validity, the developed workflow was applied to sputum samples from cystic fibrosis patients to map O-glycosylation features associated with disease.
PXD042562	38521872	Molecular mechanism of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M3 interaction with Gq. 	Molecular mechanism of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M3 interaction with Gq	G protein, GPCR, Gq, HDX-MS, M3	Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M3 (M3) and its downstream effector Gq/11 are critical drug development targets due to their involvement in physiopathological processes. Although the structure of the M3-miniGq complex was recently published, the lack of information on the intracellular loop 3 (ICL3) of M3 and extensive modification of Galphaq impedes the elucidation of the molecular mechanism of M3-Gq coupling under more physiological condition. Here, we describe the molecular mechanism underlying the dynamic interactions between full-length wild-type M3 and Gq using hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry and NanoLuc Binary Technology-based cell systems. We propose a detailed analysis of M3-Gq coupling through examination of previously well-defined binding interfaces and neglected regions. Our findings suggest potential binding interfaces between M3 and Gq in pre-assembled and functionally active complexes. Furthermore, M3 ICL3 negatively affected M3-Gq coupling, and the Galphaq AHD underwent unique conformational changes during M3-Gq coupling.
PXD038030	38527495	Long-term Multimodal Recording Reveals Epigenetic Adaptation Routes in Dormant Breast Cancer Cells. 	Unperturbed dormancy recording reveals stochastic awakening strategies in endocrine treated breast cancer cells	Histone PTMs, dormancy, epigenetics	Patients with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer receive adjuvant endocrine therapies (ET) that delay relapse by targeting clinically undetectable micrometastatic deposits. Yet, up to 50% of patients relapse even decades after surgery through unknown mechanisms likely involving dormancy. To investigate genetic and transcriptional changes underlying tumor awakening, we analyzed late relapse patients and longitudinally profiled a rare cohort treated with long-term neoadjuvant ETs until progression. Next, we developed an in vitro evolutionary study to record the adaptive strategies of individual lineages in unperturbed parallel experiments. Our data demonstrate that ETs induce nongenetic cell state transitions into dormancy in a stochastic subset of cells via epigenetic reprogramming. Single lineages with divergent phenotypes awaken unpredictably in the absence of recurrent genetic alterations. Targeting the dormant epigenome shows promising activity against adapting cancer cells. Overall, this study uncovers the contribution of epigenetic adaptation to the evolution of resistance to ETs. SIGNIFICANCE: This study advances the understanding of therapy-induced dormancy with potential clinical implications for breast cancer. Estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer cells adapt to endocrine treatment by entering a dormant state characterized by strong heterochromatinization with no recurrent genetic changes. Targeting the epigenetic rewiring impairs the adaptation of cancer cells to ETs.
PXD048082	38528060	Diverging co-translational protein complex assembly pathways are governed by interface energy distribution. 	N-terminal acetylation of yeast NAT-A mutants	Co-translational assembly, N-terminal acetylation, NAA10, NAA15, Terminomics	Protein-protein interactions are at the heart of all cellular processes, with the ribosome emerging as a platform, orchestrating the nascent-chain interplay dynamics. Here, to study the characteristics governing co-translational protein folding and complex assembly, we combine selective ribosome profiling, imaging, and N-terminomics with all-atoms molecular dynamics. Focusing on conserved N-terminal acetyltransferases (NATs), we uncover diverging co-translational assembly pathways, where highly homologous subunits serve opposite functions. We find that only a few residues serve as "hotspots," initiating co-translational assembly interactions upon exposure at the ribosome exit tunnel. These hotspots are characterized by high binding energy, anchoring the entire interface assembly. Alpha-helices harboring hotspots are highly thermolabile, folding and unfolding during simulations, depending on their partner subunit to avoid misfolding. In vivo hotspot mutations disrupted co-translational complexation, leading to aggregation. Accordingly, conservation analysis reveals that missense NATs variants, causing neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases, disrupt putative hotspot clusters. Expanding our study to include phosphofructokinase, anthranilate synthase, and nucleoporin subcomplex, we employ AlphaFold-Multimer to model the complexes' complete structures. Computing MD-derived interface energy profiles, we find similar trends. Here, we propose a model based on the distribution of interface energy as a strong predictor of co-translational assembly.
PXD031415	38528119	Profiling the proximal proteome of the activated mu-opioid receptor. 	Profiling the diversity of agonist-selective effects on the proximal proteome environment of G protein-coupled receptors	AP-MS, APEX, DDA, DIA, GPCR, mu opioid receptor	The mu-opioid receptor (muOR) represents an important target of therapeutic and abused drugs. So far, most understanding of muOR activity has focused on a subset of known signal transducers and regulatory molecules. Yet muOR signaling is coordinated by additional proteins in the interaction network of the activated receptor, which have largely remained invisible given the lack of technologies to interrogate these networks systematically. Here we describe a proteomics and computational approach to map the proximal proteome of the activated muOR and to extract subcellular location, trafficking and functional partners of G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) activity. We demonstrate that distinct opioid agonists exert differences in the muOR proximal proteome mediated by endocytosis and endosomal sorting. Moreover, we identify two new muOR network components, EYA4 and KCTD12, which are recruited on the basis of receptor-triggered G-protein activation and might form a previously unrecognized buffering system for G-protein activity broadly modulating cellular GPCR signaling.
PXD048679	38529712	Engineering the carbon and redox metabolism of Paenibacillus polymyxa for efficient isobutanol production. 	Proteomics analysis of engineered Paenibacillus polymyxa producing isobutanol	Paenibacillus polymyxa	Paenibacillus polymyxa is a non-pathogenic, Gram-positive bacterium endowed with a rich and versatile metabolism. However interesting, this bacterium has been seldom used for bioproduction thus far. In this study, we engineered P. polymyxa for isobutanol production, a relevant bulk chemical and next-generation biofuel. A CRISPR-Cas9-based genome editing tool facilitated the chromosomal integration of a synthetic operon to establish isobutanol production. The 2,3-butanediol biosynthesis pathway, leading to the main fermentation product of P. polymyxa, was eliminated. A mutant strain harbouring the synthetic isobutanol operon (kdcA from Lactococcus lactis, and the native ilvC, ilvD and adh genes) produced 1 g L(-1) isobutanol under microaerobic conditions. Improving NADPH regeneration by overexpression of the malic enzyme subsequently increased the product titre by 50%. Network-wide proteomics provided insights into responses of P. polymyxa to isobutanol and revealed a significant metabolic shift caused by alcohol production. Glucose-6-phosphate 1-dehydrogenase, the key enzyme in the pentose phosphate pathway, was identified as a bottleneck that hindered efficient NADPH regeneration through this pathway. Furthermore, we conducted culture optimization towards cultivating P. polymyxa in a synthetic minimal medium. We identified biotin (B7), pantothenate (B5) and folate (B9) to be mutual essential vitamins for P. polymyxa. Our rational metabolic engineering of P. polymyxa for the production of a heterologous chemical sheds light on the metabolism of this bacterium towards further biotechnological exploitation.
PXD042731	38530058	Characterization of clumpy adhesion of Escherichia coli to human cells and associated factors influencing antibiotic sensitivity. 	Characterization of clumpy adhesion of Escherichia coli to human cells and associated factors influencing antibiotic sensitivity	Escherichia coli, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, antibiotic tolerance, clumpy adhesion, motility, stress	Escherichia coli intestinal infection pathotypes are characterized by distinct adhesion patterns, including the recently described clumpy adhesion phenotype. Here, we identify and characterize the genetic factors contributing to the clumpy adhesion of E. coli strain 4972. In this strain, the transcriptome and proteome of adhered bacteria were found to be distinct from planktonic bacteria in the supernatant. A total of 622 genes in the transcriptome were differentially expressed in bacteria present in clumps relative to the planktonic bacteria. Seven genes targeted for disruption had variable distribution in different pathotypes and nonpathogenic E. coli, with the pilV and spnT genes being the least frequent or absent from most groups. Deletion (Delta) of five differentially expressed genes, flgH, ffp, pilV, spnT, and yggT, affected motility, adhesion, or antibiotic stress. DeltaflgH exhibited 80% decrease and DeltayggT depicted 184% increase in adhesion, and upon complementation, adhesion was significantly reduced to 13%. DeltaflgH lost motility and was regenerated when complemented, whereas Deltaffp had significantly increased motility, and reintroduction of the same gene reduced it to the wild-type level. The clumps produced by Deltaffp and DeltaspnT were more resistant and protected the bacteria, with DeltaspnT showing the best clump formation in terms of ampicillin stress protection. DeltayggT had the lowest tolerance to gentamicin, where the antibiotic stress completely eliminated the bacteria. Overall, we were able to investigate the influence of clump formation on cell surface adhesion and antimicrobial tolerance, with the contribution of several factors crucial to clump formation on susceptibility to the selected antibiotics. IMPORTANCE: The study explores a biofilm-like clumpy adhesion phenotype in Escherichia coli, along with various factors and implications for antibiotic susceptibility. The phenotype permitted the bacteria to survive the onslaught of high antibiotic concentrations. Profiles of the transcriptome and proteome allowed the differentiation between adhered bacteria in clumps and planktonic bacteria in the supernatant. The deletion mutants of genes differentially expressed between adhered and planktonic bacteria, i.e., flgH, ffp, pilV, spnT, and yggT, and respective complementations in trans cemented their roles in multiple capacities. ffp, an uncharacterized gene, is involved in motility and resistance to ampicillin in a clumpy state. The work also affirms for the first time the role of the yggT gene in adhesion and its involvement in susceptibility against another aminoglycoside antibiotic, i.e., gentamicin. Overall, the study contributes to the mechanisms of biofilm-like adhesion phenotype and understanding of the antimicrobial therapy failures and infections of E. coli.
PXD039133	38530158	The palmitoylation of gasdermin D directs its membrane translocation and pore formation during pyroptosis. 	Identification of gasderminD interacting proteins by massspectrometry	Fasn, GSDMD, Gasdermin D, Immunoprecipitation, Palmitoylation, Pyroptosis	Plasma membrane perforation elicited by caspase cleavage of the gasdermin D (GSDMD) N-terminal domain (GSDMD-NT) triggers pyroptosis. The mechanisms underlying GSDMD membrane translocation and pore formation are not fully understood. Here, using a proteomics approach, we identified fatty acid synthase (FASN) as a GSDMD-binding partner. S-palmitoylation of GSDMD at Cys191/192 (human/mouse), catalyzed by palmitoyl acyltransferases ZDHHC5 and ZDHHC9 and facilitated by reactive oxygen species (ROS), directly mediated membrane translocation of GSDMD-NT but not full-length GSDMD (GSDMD-FL). Palmitoylation of GSDMD-FL could be induced before inflammasome activation by stimuli such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), consequently serving as an essential molecular event in macrophage priming. Inhibition of GSDMD palmitoylation suppressed macrophage pyroptosis and IL-1beta release, mitigated organ damage, and enhanced the survival of septic mice. Thus, GSDMD-NT palmitoylation is a key regulatory mechanism controlling GSDMD membrane localization and activation, which may offer an additional target for modulating immune activity in infectious and inflammatory diseases.
PXD049717	38531846	USP3 promotes osteosarcoma progression via deubiquitinating EPHA2 and activating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. 	USP3 promotes osteosarcoma progression via deubiquitinating EPHA2 and activating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway	EPHA2, USP3, deubiquitination, metastasis, osteosarcoma	Ubiquitin-specific protease 3 (USP3) plays an important role in the progression of various tumors. However, the role of USP3 in osteosarcoma (OS) remains poorly understood. The aim of this study was to explore the biological function of USP3 in OS and the underlying molecular mechanism. We found that OS had higher USP3 expression compared with that of normal bone tissue, and high expression of USP3 was associated with poor prognosis in patients with OS. Overexpression of USP3 significantly increased OS cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Mechanistically, USP3 led to the activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway in OS by binding to EPHA2 and then reducing its protein degradation. Notably, the truncation mutant USP3-F2 (159-520) interacted with EPHA2, and amino acid 203 was found to play an important role in this process. And knockdown of EPHA2 expression reversed the pro-tumour effects of USP3-upregulating. Thus, our study indicates the USP3/EPHA2 axis may be a novel potential target for OS treatment.
PXD047910	38534207	Platform-Specific Fc N-Glycan Profiles of an Antisperm Antibody. 	LC-MS/MS data for HCA mRNA antibodies	Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Glycosylation, IgG, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP)	IgG Fc N-glycosylation is necessary for effector functions and is an important component of quality control. The choice of antibody manufacturing platform has the potential to significantly influence the Fc glycans of an antibody and consequently alter their activity and clinical profile. The Human Contraception Antibody (HCA) is an IgG1 antisperm monoclonal antibody (mAb) currently in clinical development as a novel, non-hormonal contraceptive. Part of its development is selecting a suitable expression platform to manufacture HCA for use in the female reproductive tract. Here, we compared the Fc glycosylation of HCA produced in two novel mAb manufacturing platforms, namely transgenic tobacco plants (Nicotiana benthamiana; HCA-N) and mRNA-mediated expression in human vaginal cells (HCAmRNA). The Fc N-glycan profiles of the two HCA products were determined using mass spectrometry. Major differences in site occupancy, glycan types, and glycoform distributions were revealed. To address how these differences affect Fc function, antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) assays were performed. The level of sperm phagocytosis was significantly lower in the presence of HCA-N than HCAmRNA. This study provides evidence that the two HCA manufacturing platforms produce functionally distinct HCAs; this information could be useful for the selection of an optimal platform for HCA clinical development and for mAbs in general.
PXD047083	38535335	Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation-Based Proteomics Analysis Revealed Proteins Involved in Drought Response during the Germination Stage in Faba Bean. 	iTRAQ-Based Proteomics Analysis Revealed Proteins Involved in Drought Response During the Germination Stage in Faba Bean	itraq	The faba bean, a significant cool-season edible legume crop, is susceptible to drought during the germination stage. Research regarding the genetic regulation of drought tolerance throughout this stage in the faba bean is limited. The differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in faba beans between the drought-tolerant variety C105 and the drought-sensitive variant E1 during seed germination were identified in this work, accomplished through isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) analysis. A total of 3827 proteins were identified in the two varieties of germinating seeds. Compared to those of variety E1, an increase in 108 DEPs and a decrease in 61 DEPs were observed in variety C105 under drought. Conversely, in the control group, variety C105 showed 108 significantly upregulated DEPs and 55 significantly downregulated DEPs. GO and KEGG analyses showed that the DEPs associated with glutathione metabolism and protein processing demonstrated significant increases in response to drought stress. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis unveiled three closely connected functional modules of protein translation, DNA replication, and post-translational modification, originating from 22 DEPs derived from the germination period of two varieties under drought stress. To verify the proteomic function, we selected three differentially expressed protein coding genes, which were overexpressed or silenced in tobacco, thereby enhancing the drought resistance of tobacco. This was accompanied via altered levels of superoxide dismutase or peroxidase in transgenic plants under drought stress. The possible mechanism for drought tolerance in germinating seeds of faba bean involves increasing protein translation, decreasing DNA replication, and modifying chromatin. These findings offer invaluable insights into the reaction mechanism in response to drought stress in faba beans. The identified DEPs could be utilized in faba bean breeding initiatives to manage drought.
PXD049711	38535660	The Pd (II) Reduction Mechanisms in Bacillus megaterium Y-4 Revealed by Proteomic Analysis. 	The Pd (II) reduction mechanisms in Bacillus megaterium Y-4 revealed by proteomic analysis	Bacillus megaterium	Many studies have been conducted on the microbial reduction of Pd (II) to palladium nanoparticles (Pd-NPs) due to the environmental friendliness, low cost, and the decreased toxicity of Pd (II) ions. In this study, we investigate the reduction mechanism of Pd (II) by Bacillus megaterium Y-4 through proteomics. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD049711. Our results revealed that B. megaterium Y-4 may use the endogenous electron donor (NAD(P)H) generated by nirB, tdh, and fabG and reductase to reduce Pd (II) to Pd-NPs. The expression levels of fabG, tdh, gudB, and rocG that generate NAD(P)H were further increased, and the number of reduced Pd-NPs was further increased with the exogenous electron donor sodium formate. Endogenous electron mediators such as quinones and flavins in B. megaterium Y-4 can further enhance Pd (II) reduction. The findings provided invaluable information regarding the reduction mechanism of Pd (II) by B. megaterium Y-4 at the proteome level.
PXD048668	38535825	Comprehensive Analysis of Bufadienolide and Protein Profiles of Gland Secretions from Medicinal Bufo Species. 	The Gland Secretions from Different Bufo species	Gland Secretions	Toad Venom (TV) is the dried product of toxic secretions from Bufo bufo gargarizans Cantor (BgC) or B. melanostictus Schneider (BmS). Given the increasing medical demand and the severe depletion of wild toads, a number of counterfeit TVs appeared on the market, posing challenges to its quality control. In order to develop an efficient, feasible, and comprehensive approach to evaluate TV quality, a thorough analysis and comparison of chemical compounds among legal species BgC and BmS, as well as the main confusion species B. andrewsi Schmidt (BaS) and B. raddei Strauch (BrS), were conducted by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF/MS), high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), and Nano LC-MS/MS analyses. We identified 126 compounds, including free or conjugated bufadienolides, indole alkaloids and amino acids, among the four Bufo species. The content of main bufadienolides, such as gamabufotalin, bufotalin, bufalin, cinobufagin, and resibufogenin, and the total protein contents varied widely among 28 batches of TV due to their origin species. The sum of the five bufadienolides within the BgC, BmS, BaS, and BrS samples were 8.15-15.93%, 2.45-4.14%, 11.15-13.50%, and 13.21-14.68%, respectively. The total protein content of BgC (6.9-24.4%) and BaS (19.1-20.6%) samples were higher than that of BmS (4.8-20.4%) and BrS (10.1-13.7%) samples. Additionally, a total of 1357 proteins were identified. There were differences between the protein compositions among the samples of the four Bufo species. The results indicated that BgC TV is of the highest quality; BaS and BrS TV could serve as alternative resources, whereas BmS TV performed poorly overall. This research provides evidence for developing approaches to evaluate TV quality and selecting the proper Bufo species as the origin source of TV listed in the Chinese pharmacopoeia.
PXD041643	38536505	Metabolic changes contribute to maladaptive right ventricular hypertrophy in pulmonary hypertension beyond pressure overload: an integrative imaging and omics investigation. 	Plasma proteomics in  pig models of pulmonary hypertension	Pig, plasma	Right ventricular (RV) failure remains the strongest determinant of survival in pulmonary hypertension (PH). We aimed to identify relevant mechanisms, beyond pressure overload, associated with maladaptive RV hypertrophy in PH. To separate the effect of pressure overload from other potential mechanisms, we developed in pigs two experimental models of PH (M1, by pulmonary vein banding and M2, by aorto-pulmonary shunting) and compared them with a model of pure pressure overload (M3, pulmonary artery banding) and a sham-operated group. Animals were assessed at 1 and 8 months by right heart catheterization, cardiac magnetic resonance and blood sampling, and myocardial tissue was analyzed. Plasma unbiased proteomic and metabolomic data were compared among groups and integrated by an interaction network analysis. A total of 33 pigs completed follow-up (M1, n = 8; M2, n = 6; M3, n = 10; and M0, n = 9). M1 and M2 animals developed PH and reduced RV systolic function, whereas animals in M3 showed increased RV systolic pressure but maintained normal function. Significant plasma arginine and histidine deficiency and complement system activation were observed in both PH models (M1&M2), with additional alterations to taurine and purine pathways in M2. Changes in lipid metabolism were very remarkable, particularly the elevation of free fatty acids in M2. In the integrative analysis, arginine-histidine-purines deficiency, complement activation, and fatty acid accumulation were significantly associated with maladaptive RV hypertrophy. Our study integrating imaging and omics in large-animal experimental models demonstrates that, beyond pressure overload, metabolic alterations play a relevant role in RV dysfunction in PH.
PXD047534	38536665	Proteomic examination of polyester-polyurethane degradation by Streptomyces sp. PU10: Diverting polyurethane intermediates to secondary metabolite production. 	Examination of polyester-polyurethane degradation by Streptomyces sp. PU10	DDA, Impranil. LFQ, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Q Exactive HF, Streptomyces, bacteria	Global plastic waste accumulation has become omnipresent in public discourse and the focus of scientific research. Ranking as the sixth most produced polymer globally, polyurethanes (PU) significantly contribute to plastic waste and environmental pollution due to the toxicity of their building blocks, such as diisocyanates. In this study, the effects of PU on soil microbial communities over 18 months were monitored revealing that it had marginal effects on microbial diversity. However, Streptomyces sp. PU10, isolated from this PU-contaminated soil, proved exceptional in the degradation of a soluble polyester-PU (Impranil) across a range of temperatures with over 96% degradation of 10 g/L in 48 h. Proteins involved in PU degradation and metabolic changes occurring in this strain with Impranil as the sole carbon source were further investigated employing quantitative proteomics. The proposed degradation mechanism implicated the action of three enzymes: a polyester-degrading esterase, a urethane bond-degrading amidase and an oxidoreductase. Furthermore, proteome data revealed that PU degradation intermediates were incorporated into Streptomyces sp. PU10 metabolism via the fatty acid degradation pathway and subsequently channelled to polyketide biosynthesis. Most notably, the production of the tri-pyrrole undecylprodigiosin was confirmed paving the way for establishing PU upcycling strategies to bioactive metabolites using Streptomyces strains.
PXD043559	38536927	Activation of endogenous retroviruses and induction of viral mimicry by MEK1/2 inhibition in pancreatic cancer. 	Activation of endogenous retroviruses and induction of viral mimicry by MEK1/2 inhibition in pancreatic cancer	histone post-translational modifications, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	While pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDACs) are addicted to KRAS-activating mutations, inhibitors of downstream KRAS effectors, such as the MEK1/2 kinase inhibitor trametinib, are devoid of therapeutic effects. However, the extensive rewiring of regulatory circuits driven by the attenuation of the KRAS pathway may induce vulnerabilities of therapeutic relevance. An in-depth molecular analysis of the transcriptional and epigenomic alterations occurring in PDAC cells in the initial hours after MEK1/2 inhibition by trametinib unveiled the induction of endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) escaping epigenetic silencing, leading to the production of double-stranded RNAs and the increased expression of interferon (IFN) genes. We tracked ERV activation to the early induction of the transcription factor ELF3, which extensively bound and activated nonsilenced retroelements and synergized with IRF1 (interferon regulatory factor 1) in the activation of IFNs and IFN-stimulated genes. Trametinib-induced viral mimicry in PDAC may be exploited in the rational design of combination therapies in immuno-oncology.
PXD047767	38537884	Identification of a chromatin-bound ERRalpha interactome network in mouse liver. 	Identification of a chromatin-bound ERRalpha interactome network in mouse liver	ERRalpha, HCFC1, OXPHOS., RIME, mitochondrial respiration, nuclear receptor	OBJECTIVE: Estrogen-related-receptor alpha (ERRalpha) plays a critical role in the transcriptional regulation of cellular bioenergetics and metabolism, and perturbations in its activity have been associated with metabolic diseases. While several coactivators and corepressors of ERRalpha have been identified to date, a knowledge gap remains in understanding the extent to which ERRalpha cooperates with coregulators in the control of gene expression. Herein, we mapped the primary chromatin-bound ERRalpha interactome in mouse liver. METHODS: RIME (Rapid Immuno-precipitation Mass spectrometry of Endogenous proteins) analysis using mouse liver samples from two circadian time points was used to catalog ERRalpha-interacting proteins on chromatin. The genomic crosstalk between ERRalpha and its identified cofactors in the transcriptional control of precise gene programs was explored through cross-examination of genome-wide binding profiles from chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) studies. The dynamic interplay between ERRalpha and its newly uncovered cofactor Host cell factor C1 (HCFC1) was further investigated by loss-of-function studies in hepatocytes. RESULTS: Characterization of the hepatic ERRalpha chromatin interactome led to the identification of 48 transcriptional interactors of which 42 were previously unknown including HCFC1. Interrogation of available ChIP-seq binding profiles highlighted oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) under the control of a complex regulatory network between ERRalpha and multiple cofactors. While ERRalpha and HCFC1 were found to bind to a large set of common genes, only a small fraction showed their colocalization, found predominately near the transcriptional start sites of genes particularly enriched for components of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Knockdown studies demonstrated inverse regulatory actions of ERRalpha and HCFC1 on OXPHOS gene expression ultimately dictating the impact of their loss-of-function on mitochondrial respiration. CONCLUSIONS: Our work unveils a repertoire of previously unknown transcriptional partners of ERRalpha comprised of chromatin modifiers and transcription factors thus advancing our knowledge of how ERRalpha regulates metabolic transcriptional programs.
PXD049033	38538837	Defective prelamin A processing promotes unconventional necroptosis driven by nuclear RIPK1. 	Prelamin A interacts with RIPK1 in ZMPSTE24-deficient cells	Prelamin A, RIPK1	Defects in the prelamin A processing enzyme caused by loss-of-function mutations in the ZMPSTE24 gene are responsible for a spectrum of progeroid disorders characterized by the accumulation of farnesylated prelamin A. Here we report that defective prelamin A processing triggers nuclear RIPK1-dependent signalling that leads to necroptosis and inflammation. We show that accumulated prelamin A recruits RIPK1 to the nucleus to facilitate its activation upon tumour necrosis factor stimulation in ZMPSTE24-deficient cells. Kinase-activated RIPK1 then promotes RIPK3-mediated MLKL activation in the nucleus, leading to nuclear envelope disruption and necroptosis. This signalling relies on prelamin A farnesylation, which anchors prelamin A to nuclear envelope to serve as a nucleation platform for necroptosis. Genetic inactivation of necroptosis ameliorates the progeroid phenotypes in Zmpste24(-/-) mice. Our findings identify an unconventional nuclear necroptosis pathway resulting from ZMPSTE24 deficiency with pathogenic consequences in progeroid disorder and suggest RIPK1 as a feasible target for prelamin A-associated progeroid disorders.
PXD050589	38539556	Proteomic Profiling of Cerebrospinal Fluid and Its Extracellular Vesicles from Extraventricular Drainage in Pediatric Pilocytic Astrocytoma, towards Precision Oncology. 	Proteomic Profiling of Cerebrospinal Fluid and its EVs from Extraventricular Drainage in Pediatric Pilocytic Astrocytoma, Towards Precision Oncology	Cerebrospinal fluid, exosome, extracellular vesicles, extraventricular drainage, microvesicle, pilocytic astrocytoma	Pediatric pilocytic astrocytoma (PA) is the most common brain tumor in children. Complete resection provides a favorable prognosis, except for unresectable PA forms. There is an incomplete understanding of the molecular and cellular pathogenesis of PA. Potential biomarkers for PA patients, especially the non-BRAF-mutated ones are needed. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a valuable source of brain tumor biomarkers. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), circulating in CSF, express valuable disease targets. These can be isolated from CSF from waste extraventricular drainage (EVD). We analyzed the proteome of EVD CSF from PA, congenital hydrocephalus (CH, non-tumor control), or medulloblastoma (MB, unrelated tumoral control) patients. A total of 3072 proteins were identified, 47.1%, 65.6%, and 86.2% of which were expressed in the unprocessed total and in its large-EV (LEV), and small-EV (SEV) fractions. Bioinformatics identified 50 statistically significant proteins in the comparison between PA and HC, and PA and MB patients, in the same fractions. Kinase enrichment analysis predicted five enriched kinases involved in signaling. Among these, only Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) kinase was overexpressed in PA samples. PLS-DA highlighted the inactive carboxypeptidase-like protein X2 (CPXM2) and aquaporin-4 (AQP4) as statistically significant in all the comparisons, with CPXM2 being overexpressed (validated by ELISA and Western blot) and AQP4 downregulated in PA. These proteins were considered the most promising potential biomarkers for discriminating among pilocytic astrocytoma and unrelated tumoral (MB) or non-tumoral conditions in all the fractions examined, and are proposed to be prospectively validated in the plasma for translational medicine applications.
PXD050312	38539879	Screening for Metal-Chelating Activity in Potato Protein Hydrolysates Using Surface Plasmon Resonance and Peptidomics. 	Metal chelating properties of fractionated potato protein hydrolysates	AnOxPePred, Potato, SPR, antioxidant activity, hydrolysate, sequential hydrolysis	Metal-catalyzed lipid oxidation is a major factor in food waste, as it reduces shelf life. Addressing this issue, our study investigates the potential of hydrolysates derived from potato protein, a by-product of potato starch production, as metal-chelating antioxidants. Through sequential enzymatic hydrolysis using alcalase or trypsin combined with Flavourzyme, we produced various hydrolysates, which were then fractionated using ultrafiltration. Using a combination of peptidomics and bioinformatics, we predicted the presence of metal-chelating and free radical-scavenging peptides across all hydrolysate fractions, with a trend indicating a higher content of antioxidant peptides in lower molecular weight fractions. To validate these predictions, we utilized surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and a 9-day emulsion storage experiment. While SPR demonstrated potential in identifying antioxidant activity, it faced challenges in differentiating between hydrolysate fractions due to significant standard errors. In the storage experiment, all hydrolysates showed lipid oxidation inhibition, though not as effectively as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). Remarkably, one fraction (AF13) was not significantly different (p < 0.05) from EDTA in suppressing hexanal formation. These results highlight SPR and peptidomics/bioinformatics as promising yet limited methods for antioxidant screening. Importantly, this study reveals the potential of potato protein hydrolysates as antioxidants in food products, warranting further research.
PXD039884	38540271	miR-331-5p Affects Motility of Thyroid Cancer Cell Lines and Regulates BID Expression. 	Label free proteomic analysis of CAL62/miR-331-5p cells	human proteomics	During tumorigenesis, miRNAs with unbalanced expression profiles can increase the threat of disease progression. Here, we focus on the role of miR-331-5p in the pathogenesis of thyroid cancer (TC). In vitro studies were conducted using TC cell lines after the forced expression and silencing of miR-331-5p. Cell proliferation and viability were analyzed via cell counts and colorimetric assays. Cell motility was analyzed via wound healing assays, Transwell migration and invasion assays, and Matrigel Matrix assays. The putative targets of miR-331-5p were unveiled via label-free proteomic screening and then verified using Western blot and luciferase assays. Expression studies were conducted by interrogating The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). We found that ectopic miR-331-5p expression reduces TC cell motility, while miR-331-5p silencing induces the opposite phenotype. Proteomic screening revealed eight putative downregulated targets of miR-331-5p, among which BID was confirmed as a direct target. TCGA data showed the downregulation of miR-331-5p and the upregulation of BID in TC tissues. In summary, deregulation of the miR-331-5p/BID axis could enhance the aggressiveness of TC cell lines, providing new insights into the mechanisms of the progression of this disease and suggesting a potential role of the component factors as possible biomarkers in TC tissues.
PXD026189	38540800	Molecular Profiling of Axial Spondyloarthritis Patients Reveals an Association between Innate and Adaptive Cell Populations and Therapeutic Response to Tumor Necrosis Factor Inhibitors. 	Proteomics analysis of plasma from radiographic axial spondyloarthritis patients.	Adalimumab, Disease activity, Proteomics., Spondyloarthritis, Treatment response	This study aims at identifying molecular biomarkers differentiating responders and non-responders to treatment with Tumor Necrosis Factor inhibitors (TNFi) among patients with axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA). Whole blood mRNA and plasma proteins were measured in a cohort of biologic-naive axSpA patients (n = 35), pre and post (14 weeks) TNFi treatment with adalimumab. Differential expression analysis was used to identify the most enriched pathways and in predictive models to distinguish responses to TNFi. A treatment-associated signature suggests a reduction in inflammatory activity. We found transcripts and proteins robustly differentially expressed between baseline and week 14 in responders. C-reactive protein (CRP) and Haptoglobin (HP) proteins showed strong and early decrease in the plasma of axSpA patients, while a cluster of apolipoproteins (APOD, APOA2, APOA1) showed increased expression at week 14. Responders to TNFi treatment present higher levels of markers of innate immunity at baseline, and lower levels of adaptive immunity markers, particularly B-cells. A logistic regression model incorporating ASDAS-CRP, gender, and AFF3, the top differentially expressed gene at baseline, enabled an accurate prediction of response to adalimumab in our cohort (AUC = 0.97). In conclusion, innate and adaptive immune cell type composition at baseline may be a major contributor to response to adalimumab in axSpA patients. A model including clinical and gene expression variables should also be considered.
PXD049382	38540876	Mass Spectrometry Characterization of the SDS-PAGE Protein Profile of Legumins and Vicilins from Chickpea Seed. 	An in-depth Mass Spectrometry Characterization of the SDS-PAGE Protein Profile of Legumins and Vicilins from Chickpea Seed	Chickpea Proteins, Legumins, Orbitrap Mass Spectrometry, SDS-PAGE, Vicilins	Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) seed proteins show a lot of functional properties leading this legume to be an interesting component for the development of protein-enriched foods. However, both the in-depth proteomic investigation and structural characterization of chickpea seed proteins are still lacking. In this paper a detailed characterization of chickpea seed protein fraction by means of SDS-PAGE, in-gel protein digestion, high-resolution mass spectrometry, and database searching is reported. Through this approach, twenty SDS gel bands were cut and analyzed. While the majority of the bands and the identified peptides were related to vicilin and legumin storage proteins, metabolic functional proteins were also detected. Legumins, as expected, were revealed at 45-65 kDa, as whole subunits with the alpha- and beta-chains linked together by a disulphide bond, but also at lower mass ranges (alpha- and beta-chains migrating alone). Similarly, but not expected, the vicilins were also spread along the mass region between 65 and 23 kDa, with some of them being identified in several bands. An MS structural characterization allowed to determine that, although chickpea vicilins were always described as proteins lacking cysteine residues, they contain this amino acid residue. Moreover, similar to legumins, these storage proteins are firstly synthesized as pre-propolypeptides (Mr 50-80 kDa) that may undergo proteolytic steps that not only cut the signal peptides but also produce different subunits with lower molecular masses. Overall, about 360 different proteins specific of the Cicer arietinum L. species were identified and characterized, a result that, up to the current date, represents the most detailed description of the seed proteome of this legume.
PXD042166	38542208	Morquio A Syndrome: Identification of Differential Patterns of Molecular Pathway Interactions in Bone Lesions. 	Morquio A syndrome: identification of differential patterns of molecular pathway interactions in bone lesions	Morquio A syndrome, Protein Biomarker, SWATH-MS, rare disease	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPS IVA; Morquio A syndrome) is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease (LSD) caused by deficiency of a hydrolase enzyme, N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase, and characterized clinically by mainly musculoskeletal manifestations. The mechanisms underlying bone involvement in humans are typically explored using invasive techniques such as bone biopsy, which complicates analysis in humans. We compared bone proteomes using DDA and SWATH-MS in wild-type and MPS IVA knockout mice (UNT) to obtain mechanistic information about the disease. Our findings reveal over 1000 dysregulated proteins in knockout mice, including those implicated in oxidative phosphorylation, oxidative stress (reactive oxygen species), DNA damage, and iron transport, and suggest that lactate dehydrogenase may constitute a useful prognostic and follow-up biomarker. Identifying biomarkers that reflect MPS IVA clinical course, severity, and progression have important implications for disease management.
PXD048464	38542221	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal That CB2R Agonist JWH-133 Downregulates NF-kappaB Activation, Oxidative Stress, and Lysosomal Exocytosis from HIV-Infected Macrophages. 	Quantitative proteomics reveal that CB2R agonist JWH-133 downregulates NF-B activation, oxidative stress, and lysosomal exocytosis from HIV-infected macrophages	CB2R, HAND, HIV, cathepsin B, macrophages, neurotoxicity, oxidative stress	HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) affect 15-55% of HIV-positive patients and effective therapies are unavailable. HIV-infected monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) invade the brain of these individuals, promoting neurotoxicity. We demonstrated an increased expression of cathepsin B (CATB), a lysosomal protease, in monocytes and post-mortem brain tissues of women with HAND. Increased CATB release from HIV-infected MDM leads to neurotoxicity, and their secretion is associated with NF-kappaB activation, oxidative stress, and lysosomal exocytosis. Cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2R) agonist, JWH-133, decreases HIV-1 replication, CATB secretion, and neurotoxicity from HIV-infected MDM, but the mechanisms are not entirely understood. We hypothesized that HIV-1 infection upregulates the expression of proteins associated with oxidative stress and that a CB2R agonist could reverse these effects. MDM were isolated from healthy women donors (n = 3), infected with HIV-1ADA, and treated with JWH-133. After 13 days post-infection, cell lysates were labeled by Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) and analyzed by LC/MS/MS quantitative proteomics bioinformatics. While HIV-1 infection upregulated CATB, NF-kappaB signaling, Nrf2-mediated oxidative stress response, and lysosomal exocytosis, JWH-133 treatment downregulated the expression of the proteins involved in these pathways. Our results suggest that JWH-133 is a potential alternative therapy against HIV-induced neurotoxicity and warrant in vivo studies to test its potential against HAND.
PXD050321	38542224	Mitochondrial Ribosomal Protein MRPS15 Is a Component of Cytosolic Ribosomes and Regulates Translation in Stressed Cardiomyocytes. 	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein MRPS15 Is a component of cytosolic ribosomes and regulates translation in stressed cardiomyocytes	Cardiomyocyte, Endoplasmic reticulum stress, IRES, Mitochondrial ribosomal protein, Ribosome heterogeneity, Translational control	Regulation of mRNA translation is a crucial step in controlling gene expression in stressed cells, impacting many pathologies, including heart ischemia. In recent years, ribosome heterogeneity has emerged as a key control mechanism driving the translation of subsets of mRNAs. In this study, we investigated variations in ribosome composition in human cardiomyocytes subjected to endoplasmic reticulum stress induced by tunicamycin treatment. Our findings demonstrate that this stress inhibits global translation in cardiomyocytes while activating internal ribosome entry site (IRES)-dependent translation. Analysis of translating ribosome composition in stressed and unstressed cardiomyocytes was conducted using mass spectrometry. We observed no significant changes in ribosomal protein composition, but several mitochondrial ribosomal proteins (MRPs) were identified in cytosolic polysomes, showing drastic variations between stressed and unstressed cells. The most notable increase in polysomes of stressed cells was observed in MRPS15. Its interaction with ribosomal proteins was confirmed by proximity ligation assay (PLA) and immunoprecipitation, suggesting its intrinsic role as a ribosomal component during stress. Knock-down or overexpression experiments of MRPS15 revealed its role as an activator of IRES-dependent translation. Furthermore, polysome profiling after immunoprecipitation with anti-MRPS15 antibody revealed that the "MRPS15 ribosome" is specialized in translating mRNAs involved in the unfolded protein response.
PXD045197	38542426	Dynamics of Mitochondrial Proteome and Acetylome in Glioblastoma Cells with Contrasting Metabolic Phenotypes. 	Dynamics of Mitochondrial Proteome and Acetylome in Glioblastoma Cells with Contrasting Metabolic Phenotypes	Glioblastoma, SIRT3, lysine acetylation, metabolism, mitochondria	Glioblastoma, a type of cancer affecting the central nervous system, is characterized by its poor prognosis and the dynamic alteration of its metabolic phenotype to fuel development and progression. Critical to cellular metabolism, mitochondria play a pivotal role, where the acetylation of lysine residues on mitochondrial enzymes emerges as a crucial regulatory mechanism of protein function. This post-translational modification, which negatively impacts the mitochondrial proteome's functionality, is modulated by the enzyme sirtuin 3 (SIRT3). Aiming to elucidate the regulatory role of SIRT3 in mitochondrial metabolism within glioblastoma, we employed high-resolution mass spectrometry to analyze the proteome and acetylome of two glioblastoma cell lines, each exhibiting distinct metabolic behaviors, following the chemical inhibition of SIRT3. Our findings reveal that the protein synthesis machinery, regulated by lysine acetylation, significantly influences the metabolic phenotype of these cells. Moreover, we have shed light on potential novel SIRT3 targets, thereby unveiling new avenues for future investigations. This research highlights the critical function of SIRT3 in mitochondrial metabolism and its broader implications for cellular energetics. It also provides a comparative analysis of the proteome and acetylome across glioblastoma cell lines with opposing metabolic phenotypes.
PXD044423	38543672	Dynamic Protein Phosphorylation in Streptococcus pyogenes during Growth, Stationary Phase, and Starvation. 	Dynamic protein phosphorylation in Streptococcus pyogenes during growth, stationary phase and starvation	PASTA kinase, Streptococcus pyogenes M49, growth phases, label-free quantification, phosphoproteome	Phosphorylation of proteins at serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues plays an important role in physiological processes of bacteria, such as cell cycle, metabolism, virulence, dormancy, and stationary phase functions. Little is known about the targets and dynamics of protein phosphorylation in Streptococcus pyogenes, which possesses a single known transmembrane serine/threonine kinase belonging to the class of PASTA kinases. A proteomics and phosphoproteomics workflow was performed with S. pyogenes serotype M49 under different growth conditions, stationary phase, and starvation. The quantitative analysis of dynamic phosphorylation, which included a subset of 463 out of 815 identified phosphorylation sites, revealed two main types of phosphorylation events. A small group of phosphorylation events occurred almost exclusively at threonine residues of proteins related to the cell cycle and was enhanced in growing cells. The majority of phosphorylation events occurred during stationary phase or starvation, preferentially at serine residues. PASTA kinase-dependent cell cycle regulation processes found in related bacteria are conserved in S. pyogenes. Increased protein phosphorylation during the stationary phase has also been described for some other bacteria, and could therefore be a general feature in the physiology of bacteria, whose functions and the kinases involved need to be elucidated in further analyses.
PXD050056	38545550	The protective effect of traditional Chinese medicine Jinteng Qingbi granules on rats with rheumatoid arthritis. 	4D label-free quantitative proteomics analysis of collagen-induced arthritis rats	Jinteng Qingbi Granules, Rheumatoid arthritis, Synovial tissue proteomics, collagen-induced arthritis	Introduction: Jinteng Qingbi granules (JTQBG), a traditional Chinese medicine formulation, are widely used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) due to their satisfactory therapeutic efficacy. However, the underlying mechanism of action remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the protective effects of JTQBG against RA and elucidates its potential molecular mechanisms. Methods: A collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) rat model was utilized, and JTQBG (1.25, 2.5, 5 g/kg/day) or methotrexate (MTX, 1 mg/kg/week) was orally administered. The rats' weight, arthritis index (AI), and paw volume were measured weekly. Synovial hyperplasia of the joints was detected using a small animal ultrasound imaging system. Joint destruction was assessed using an X-ray imaging system. Histopathological examinations were performed using hematoxylin-eosin (H&E), Saffron-O and fast green staining. Serum inflammatory cytokines were detected using ELISA. Furthermore, 4D label-free quantitative proteomics of synovial tissues and non-targeted metabolomics of blood serum were conducted to analyze the molecular mechanisms. Results: JTQBG exerted a significant therapeutic effect on CIA rats by reducing inflammatory cell infiltration, synovial hyperplasia, cartilage erosion, and bone destruction. It also decreased the spleen index, inhibited hyperplasia of the white pulp, and decreased the serum levels of IL-1beta and IL-18. Proteomics analysis identified 367 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between the Model and Normal groups, and 71 DEPs between the JTQBG and Model groups. These DEPs were significantly enriched in the NF-kappaB pathway. 11 DEPs were significantly reversed after treatment with JTQBG. Western blot results further validated the expression levels of Nfkb1, Pdk1, and Pecam1, and analyzed the expression levels of p-IKK, p-IkappaBalpha, and IkappaBalpha. The therapeutic efficacy of JTQBG was partly attributed to the suppression of the NF-kappaB pathway in synovial tissues. Serum metabolomics identified 17 potential biomarkers for JTQBG treatment of CIA rats, which were closely related to Alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, Tryptophan metabolism, Ascorbate and aldarate metabolism, Arginine metabolism, and Inositol phosphate metabolism. Conclusion: Our findings demonstrated that JTQBG was effective against RA by alleviating synovial inflammation, synovial hyperplasia, and joint destruction. The anti-RA properties of JTQBG were likely attributed to the inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway and the regulation of serum metabolite disorders.
PXD042425	38546978	Role of KCNK3 Dysfunction in Dasatinib-associated PAH and Endothelial Cell Dysfunction. 	KCNK3 channel dysregulation in PAH	KCNK3, apex, channel dysregulation, turboID	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is severe cardiopulmonary disease that may be triggered by exposure to drugs such as dasatinib or facilitated by genetic predispositions. The incidence of dasatinib-associated PAH is estimated at 0.45%, suggesting individual predispositions. The mechanisms of dasatinib-associated PAH are still incomplete. We discovered a KCNK3 gene (coding for outward K+ channel) variant in a patient with dasatinib-associated PAH, and we investigated the impact of this variant on KCNK3 function. Additionally, we assessed the effects of dasatinib exposure on KCNK3 expression. In control-human in pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (hPASMCs) and pulmonary endothelial cells (hPECs), we evaluated the consequence of KCNK3 knockdown on cell migration, mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP production, and in vitro tube formation. Using mass spectrometry, we determined the KCNK3 interactome. Patch-clamp revealed that the KCNK3 variant represents a loss-of-function variant. Dasatinib contributed to pulmonary artery constriction by decreasing KCNK3 function and expression. In control-hPASMCs, KCNK3 knockdown promotes mitochondrial membrane depolarization and glycolytic shift. Dasatinib exposure or KCNK3 knockdown reduced the number of caveolae in hPECs. Moreover, KCNK3 knockdown in control-hPECs reduced migration, proliferation, and in vitro tubulogenesis. Using proximity labeling and mass spectrometry, we identified the KCNK3 interactome, revealing that KCNK3 interacts with various proteins across different cellular compartments. We identified a novel pathogenic variant in the KCNK3 and showed that dasatinib downregulates KCNK3, emphasizing the relationship between dasatinib-associated PAH and KCNK3 dysfunction. We demonstrated that loss of KCNK3-dependent signaling contributes to endothelial dysfunction in PAH and glycolytic switch of hPASMCs.
PXD050130	38547864	Transketolase promotes MAFLD by limiting inosine-induced mitochondrial activity. 	Transketolase promotes MAFLD by limiting inosine-induced mitochondrial activity (Proteomics)	GalNAc-siRNA conjugates, Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD), inosine, mitochondrial function, transketolase	Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) has a global prevalence of about 25% and no approved therapy. Using metabolomic and proteomic analyses, we identified high expression of hepatic transketolase (TKT), a metabolic enzyme of the pentose phosphate pathway, in human and mouse MAFLD. Hyperinsulinemia promoted TKT expression through the insulin receptor-CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha axis. Utilizing liver-specific TKT overexpression and knockout mouse models, we demonstrated that TKT was sufficient and required for MAFLD progression. Further metabolic flux analysis revealed that Tkt deletion increased hepatic inosine levels to activate the protein kinase A-cAMP response element binding protein cascade, promote phosphatidylcholine synthesis, and improve mitochondrial function. Moreover, insulin induced hepatic TKT to limit inosine-dependent mitochondrial activity. Importantly, N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc)-siRNA conjugates targeting hepatic TKT showed promising therapeutic effects on mouse MAFLD. Our study uncovers how hyperinsulinemia regulates TKT-orchestrated inosine metabolism and mitochondrial function and provides a novel therapeutic strategy for MAFLD prevention and treatment.
PXD047041	38548248	Proteomics reveals that the antifungal activity of fenbendazole against Cryptococcus neoformans requires protein kinases. 	Proteomics reveals that the antifungal activity of fenbendazole against Cryptococcus neoformans requires protein kinases.	Cryptococcus neoformans, antifungal activity, fenbendazole, protein kinases	Cryptococcus neoformans is responsible for over 100,000 deaths annually, and the treatment of this fungal disease is expensive and not consistently effective. Unveiling new therapeutic avenues is crucial. Previous studies have suggested that the anthelmintic drug fenbendazole is an affordable and non-toxic candidate to combat cryptococcosis. However, its mechanism of anticryptococcal activity has been only superficially investigated. In this study, we examined the global cellular response of C. neoformans to fenbendazole using a proteomic approach (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD047041). Fenbendazole treatment mostly impacted the abundance of proteins related to metabolic pathways, RNA processing, and intracellular traffic. Protein kinases, in particular, were significantly affected by fenbendazole treatment. Experimental validation of the proteomics data using a collection of C. neoformans mutants led to the identification of critical roles of five protein kinases in fenbendazole's antifungal activity. In fact, mutants lacking the expression of genes encoding Chk1, Tco2, Tco3, Bub1, and Sch9 kinases demonstrated greater resistance to fenbendazole compared to wild-type cells. In combination with the standard antifungal drug amphotericin B, fenbendazole reduced the cryptococcal burden in mice. These findings not only contribute to the elucidation of fenbendazole's mode of action but also support its use in combination therapy with amphotericin B. In conclusion, our data suggest that fenbendazole holds promise for further development as an anticryptococcal agent.
PXD050123	38548720	SpiDe-Sr: blind super-resolution network for precise cell segmentation and clustering in spatial proteomics imaging. 	SpiDe-Sr: blind super-resolution network for precise cell segmentation and clustering in spatial proteomics imaging	Proteomics raw data, Raw data of imaging mass cytometry (IMC)	Spatial proteomics elucidates cellular biochemical changes with unprecedented topological level. Imaging mass cytometry (IMC) is a high-dimensional single-cell resolution platform for targeted spatial proteomics. However, the precision of subsequent clinical analysis is constrained by imaging noise and resolution. Here, we propose SpiDe-Sr, a super-resolution network embedded with a denoising module for IMC spatial resolution enhancement. SpiDe-Sr effectively resists noise and improves resolution by 4 times. We demonstrate SpiDe-Sr respectively with cells, mouse and human tissues, resulting 18.95%/27.27%/21.16% increase in peak signal-to-noise ratio and 15.95%/31.63%/15.52% increase in cell extraction accuracy. We further apply SpiDe-Sr to study the tumor microenvironment of a 20-patient clinical breast cancer cohort with 269,556 single cells, and discover the invasion of Gram-negative bacteria is positively correlated with carcinogenesis markers and negatively correlated with immunological markers. Additionally, SpiDe-Sr is also compatible with fluorescence microscopy imaging, suggesting SpiDe-Sr an alternative tool for microscopy image super-resolution.
PXD045791	38548729	Bioorthogonal photocatalytic proximity labeling in primary living samples. 	Bioorthogonal Photocatalytic Proximity Labeling in Primary Living Samples	bioorthogonal chemistry, mitochondria, photocatalysis, proximity labeling	In situ profiling of subcellular proteomics in primary living systems, such as native tissues or clinic samples, is crucial for understanding life processes and diseases, yet challenging due to methodological obstacles. Here we report CAT-S, a bioorthogonal photocatalytic chemistry-enabled proximity labeling method, that expands proximity labeling to a wide range of primary living samples for in situ profiling of mitochondrial proteomes. Powered by our thioQM labeling warhead development and targeted bioorthogonal photocatalytic chemistry, CAT-S enables the labeling of mitochondrial proteins in living cells with high efficiency and specificity. We apply CAT-S to diverse cell cultures, dissociated mouse tissues as well as primary T cells from human blood, portraying the native-state mitochondrial proteomic characteristics, and unveiled hidden mitochondrial proteins (PTPN1, SLC35A4 uORF, and TRABD). Furthermore, CAT-S allows quantification of proteomic perturbations on dysfunctional tissues, exampled by diabetic mouse kidneys, revealing the alterations of lipid metabolism that may drive disease progression. Given the advantages of non-genetic operation, generality, and spatiotemporal resolution, CAT-S may open exciting avenues for subcellular proteomic investigations of primary samples that are otherwise inaccessible.
PXD046196	38550277	ALKBH8 contributes to neurological function through oxidative stress regulation. 	Proteomics analysis of ALKBH8 KO mice	DIA, brain, library free	Transfer RNA (tRNA) modification is essential for proper protein translation, as these modifications play important roles in several biological functions and disease pathophysiologies. AlkB homolog 8 (ALKBH8) is one of the nine mammalian ALKBH family molecules known to regulate selenoprotein translation through the modification of the wobble uridine (U34) in tRNA; however, its specific biological roles remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of ALKBH8 using Alkbh8-knockout (Albkh8(-/-)) mice, which were observed to have reduced 5-methoxycarbonylmethyluridine (mcm5U) and (S)-5-methoxycarbonylhydroxymethyluridine levels; notably, the mcm5U level was partially compensated only in the brain. The results of the novel object recognition test showed reduction in time to explore a novel object in Albkh8(-/-) mice; increased latency to fall in the rotarod performance test and latency to the immobility period in the forced swim test were also observed. These abnormal behaviors indicate dysfunction of the central nervous system. Furthermore, we observed reduced brain weight and ischemic pathological changes in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus in the form of weak eosin staining in the fiber tracts adjacent to the hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 region and an increase in pyramidal cells in the temporal lobe. Concordantly, we identified the differential expression of oxidative stress-related proteins and metabolites in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus using omics analyses. Finally, neurons and glial cells derived from Albkh8(-/-) mice show reduced mitochondrial membrane potential. Collectively, these findings indicate that ALKBH8 maintains neural function through an oxidative stress-regulatory mechanism.
PXD036221	38551961	Pten regulates endocytic trafficking of cell adhesion and Wnt signaling molecules to pattern the retina. 	Pten regulates endocytic trafficking of cell adhesion and signaling molecules to pattern the retina	Dscam, Pten phosphatase, Retina, Wnt signaling, cell adhesion molecules, cholinergic amacrine cell, endocytic remodeling, extracellular vesicles, mosaicism	The retina is exquisitely patterned, with neuronal somata positioned at regular intervals to completely sample the visual field. Here, we show that phosphatase and tensin homolog (Pten) controls starburst amacrine cell spacing by modulating vesicular trafficking of cell adhesion molecules and Wnt proteins. Single-cell transcriptomics and double-mutant analyses revealed that Pten and Down syndrome cell adhesion moleculeDscam) are co-expressed and function additively to pattern starburst amacrine cell mosaics. Mechanistically, Pten loss accelerates the endocytic trafficking of DSCAM, FAT3, and MEGF10 off the cell membrane and into endocytic vesicles in amacrine cells. Accordingly, the vesicular proteome, a molecular signature of the cell of origin, is enriched in exocytosis, vesicle-mediated transport, and receptor internalization proteins in Pten conditional knockout (Pten(cKO)) retinas. Wnt signaling molecules are also enriched in Pten(cKO) retinal vesicles, and the genetic or pharmacological disruption of Wnt signaling phenocopies amacrine cell patterning defects. Pten thus controls vesicular trafficking of cell adhesion and signaling molecules to establish retinal amacrine cell mosaics.
PXD046602	38552012	Identification of a targeted ACSL4 inhibitor to treat ferroptosis-related diseases. 	Identification of a targeted ACSL4 inhibitor to treat ferroptosis-related diseases	ACSL4, ferroptosis, inhibittor	Ferroptosis is a form of iron-dependent, lipid peroxidation-driven regulatory cell death that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple diseases, including organ injury, ischemia/reperfusion, and neurodegenerative diseases. However, inhibitors that directly and specifically target ferroptosis are not yet available. Here, we identify the compound AS-252424 (AS) as a potent ferroptosis inhibitor through kinase inhibitor library screening. Our results show that AS effectively inhibits lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis in both human and mouse cells. Mechanistically, AS directly binds to the glutamine 464 of ACSL4 to inhibit its enzymatic activity, resulting in the suppression of lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. By using nanoparticle-based delivery systems, treatment with AS-loaded nanoparticles effectively alleviate ferroptosis-mediated organ injury in mouse models, including kidney ischemia/reperfusion injury and acute liver injury (ALI). Thus, our results identify that AS is a specific and targeted inhibitor of ACSL4 with remarkable antiferroptosis function, providing a potential therapeutic for ferroptosis-related diseases.
PXD042287	38552872	Drug efflux and lipid A modification by 4-L-aminoarabinose are key mechanisms of polymyxin B resistance in the sepsis pathogen Enterobacter bugandensis. 	Transcriptomics and mutagenesis analysis uncover key mechanisms involved in polymyxin B resistance and heteroresistance of the neonatal sepsis pathogen Enterobacter bugandensis	Enterobacter bugandensis, polymyxin B resistance	OBJECTIVES: A concern with the ESKAPE pathogen Enterobacter bugandensis and other species of the E. cloacae complex is the frequent appearance of multidrug resistance against last-resort antibiotics, such as polymyxins. METHODS: Here, we investigated the responses to polymyxin B (PMB) in two PMB-resistant E. bugandensis clinical isolates by global transcriptomics and deletion mutagenesis. RESULTS: In both isolates, the genes of the CrrAB-regulated operon, including crrC and kexD, displayed the highest levels of upregulation in response to PMB. incrementcrrC and incrementkexD mutants became highly susceptible to PMB and lost the heteroresistant phenotype. Conversely, heterologous expression of CrrC and KexD proteins increased PMB resistance in a sensitive Enterobacter ludwigii clinical isolate and in the Escherichia coli K12 strain W3110. The efflux pump AcrABTolC, and the two component regulators PhoPQ and CrrAB, also contributed to PMB resistance and heteroresistance. Additionally, the lipid A modification with 4-L-aminoarabinose (L-Ara4N), mediated by the arnBCADTEF operon, was critical to determine PMB resistance. Biochemical experiments, supported by mass spectrometry and structural modeling, indicated that CrrC is an inner membrane protein that interacts with the membrane domain of the KexD pump. Similar interactions were modeled for AcrB and AcrD efflux pumps. CONCLUSION: Our results support a model whereby drug efflux potentiated by CrrC interaction with membrane domains of major efflux pumps combined with resistance to PMB entry by the L-Ara4N lipid A modification, under the control of PhoPQ and CrrAB, confers the bacterium high-level resistance and heteroresistance to PMB.
PXD050511	38553476	Cell surface patching via CXCR4-targeted nanothreads for cancer metastasis inhibition. 	Manipulation of CXCR4 downstream signaling	4T1 cell, metastasis	The binding of therapeutic antagonists to their receptors often fail to translate into adequate manipulation of downstream pathways. To fix this 'bug', here we report a strategy that stitches cell surface 'patches' to promote receptor clustering, thereby synchronizing subsequent mechano-transduction. The "patches" are sewn with two interactable nanothreads. In sequence, Nanothread-1 strings together adjacent receptors while presenting decoy receptors. Nanothread-2 then targets these decoys multivalently, intertwining with Nanothread-1 into a coiled-coil supramolecular network. This stepwise actuation clusters an extensive vicinity of receptors, integrating mechano-transduction to disrupt signal transmission. When applied to antagonize chemokine receptors CXCR4 expressed in metastatic breast cancer of female mice, this strategy elicits and consolidates multiple events, including interception of metastatic cascade, reversal of immunosuppression, and potentiation of photodynamic immunotherapy, reducing the metastatic burden. Collectively, our work provides a generalizable tool to spatially rearrange cell-surface receptors to improve therapeutic outcomes.
PXD044867	38553727	DEAD box RNA helicase 5 is a new pro-viral host factor for Sindbis virus infection. 	DEAD box RNA helicase 5 and 17 are novel host factors for Sindbis virus infection.	DDX17, DDX5, RNA, Sindbis virus, helicase	BACKGROUND: RNA helicases are emerging as key factors regulating host-virus interactions. The DEAD-box ATP-dependent RNA helicase DDX5, which plays an important role in many aspects of cellular RNA biology, was also found to either promote or inhibit viral replication upon infection with several RNA viruses. Here, our aim is to examine the impact of DDX5 on Sindbis virus (SINV) infection. METHODS: We analysed the interaction between DDX5 and the viral RNA using imaging and RNA-immunoprecipitation approaches. The interactome of DDX5 in mock- and SINV-infected cells was determined by mass spectrometry. We validated the interaction between DDX17 and the viral capsid by co- immunoprecipitation in the presence or absence of an RNase treatment. We determined the subcellular localization of DDX5, its cofactor DDX17 and the viral capsid protein by co-immunofluorescence. Finally, we investigated the impact of DDX5 depletion and overexpression on SINV infection at the viral protein, RNA and infectious particle accumulation level. The contribution of DDX17 was also tested by knockdown experiments. RESULTS: In this study we demonstrate that DDX5 interacts with the SINV RNA during infection. Furthermore, the proteomic analysis of the DDX5 interactome in mock and SINV-infected HCT116 cells identified new cellular and viral partners and confirmed the interaction between DDX5 and DDX17. Both DDX5 and DDX17 re-localize from the nucleus to the cytoplasm upon SINV infection and interact with the viral capsid protein. We also show that DDX5 depletion negatively impacts the viral replication cycle, while its overexpression has a pro-viral effect. Finally, we observed that DDX17 depletion reduces SINV infection, an effect which is even more pronounced in a DDX5-depleted background, suggesting a synergistic pro-viral effect of the DDX5 and DDX17 proteins on SINV. CONCLUSIONS: These results not only shed light on DDX5 as a novel and important host factor to the SINV life cycle, but also expand our understanding of the roles played by DDX5 and DDX17 as regulators of viral infections.
PXD035980	38554706	The SPATA5-SPATA5L1 ATPase complex directs replisome proteostasis to ensure genome integrity. 	Chemical crosslinking of the SPATA5-SPATA5L1-C1orf109-CINP complex	55LCC, XL-MS, unfoldase	Ubiquitin-dependent unfolding of the CMG helicase by VCP/p97 is required to terminate DNA replication. Other replisome components are not processed in the same fashion, suggesting that additional mechanisms underlie replication protein turnover. Here, we identify replisome factor interactions with a protein complex composed of AAA+ ATPases SPATA5-SPATA5L1 together with heterodimeric partners C1orf109-CINP (55LCC). An integrative structural biology approach revealed a molecular architecture of SPATA5-SPATA5L1 N-terminal domains interacting with C1orf109-CINP to form a funnel-like structure above a cylindrically shaped ATPase motor. Deficiency in the 55LCC complex elicited ubiquitin-independent proteotoxicity, replication stress, and severe chromosome instability. 55LCC showed ATPase activity that was specifically enhanced by replication fork DNA and was coupled to cysteine protease-dependent cleavage of replisome substrates in response to replication fork damage. These findings define 55LCC-mediated proteostasis as critical for replication fork progression and genome stability and provide a rationale for pathogenic variants seen in associated human neurodevelopmental disorders.
PXD053630	38554784	Root-derived long-distance signals trigger ABA synthesis and enhance drought resistance in Arabidopsis. 	Frd3 in arabidopsis mutants of proteomics	Frd3	Vascular plants have evolved intricate long-distance signaling mechanisms to cope with environmental stress, with reactive oxygen species (ROS) emerging as pivotal systemic signals in plant stress responses. However, the exact role of ROS as root-to-shoot signals in the drought response has not been determined. In this study, we reveal that compared with wild-type plants, ferric reductase defective 3 (frd3) mutants exhibit enhanced drought resistance concomitant with elevated NCED3 transcript levels and ABA contents in leaves as well as increased hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) levels in roots and leaves. Grafting experiments distinctly illustrate that drought resistance can be conferred by the frd3 rootstock regardless of the scion genotype, indicating that long-distance signals originating from frd3 roots promote an increase in ABA levels in leaves. Intriguingly, the drought resistance conferred by the frd3 mutant rootstock is weakened by the CAT2-overexpressing scion, suggesting that H2O2 may be involved in the long-distance signaling. Moreover, the results of comparative transcriptome and proteome analyses support the drought resistance phenotype of the frd3 mutant. Taken together, our findings substantiate the notion that frd3 root-derived long-distance signals trigger ABA synthesis in leaves and enhance drought resistance, providing new evidence for root-to-shoot long-distance signaling in the drought response of plants.
PXD036477	38555284	Network analysis of the proteome and peptidome sheds light on human milk as a biological system. 	The human milk peptidome: exploring network insights	Breast milk, Homo sapiens, associations, network inference, peptides, peptidomics	Proteins and peptides found in human milk have bioactive potential to benefit the newborn and support healthy development. Research has been carried out on the health benefits of proteins and peptides, but many questions still need to be answered about the nature of these components, how they are formed, and how they end up in the milk. This study explored and elucidated the complexity of the human milk proteome and peptidome. Proteins and peptides were analyzed with non-targeted nanoLC-Orbitrap-MS/MS in a selection of 297 milk samples from the CHILD Cohort Study. Protein and peptide abundances were determined, and a network was inferred using Gaussian graphical modeling (GGM), allowing an investigation of direct associations. This study showed that signatures of (1) specific mechanisms of transport of different groups of proteins, (2) proteolytic degradation by proteases and aminopeptidases, and (3) coagulation and complement activation are present in human milk. These results show the value of an integrated approach in evaluating large-scale omics data sets and provide valuable information for studies that aim to associate protein or peptide profiles from biofluids such as milk with specific physiological characteristics.
PXD047058	38555386	PCSK9 stimulates Syk, PKCdelta, and NF-kappaB, leading to atherosclerosis progression independently of LDL receptor. 	Interactome analysis of Adenylyl cyclase-associated protein 1	CAP1, Interactome, PCSK9	Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type-9 (PCSK9) binds to and degrades low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor, leading to increase of LDL cholesterol in blood. Its blockers have emerged as promising therapeutics for cardiovascular diseases. Here we show that PCSK9 itself directly induces inflammation and aggravates atherosclerosis independently of the LDL receptor. PCSK9 exacerbates atherosclerosis in LDL receptor knockout mice. Adenylyl cyclase-associated protein 1 (CAP1) is the main binding partner of PCSK9 and indispensable for the inflammatory action of PCSK9, including induction of cytokines, Toll like receptor 4, and scavenger receptors, enhancing the uptake of oxidized LDL. We find spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) and protein kinase C delta (PKCdelta) to be the key mediators of inflammation after PCSK9-CAP1 binding. In human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, serum PCSK9 levels are positively correlated with Syk, PKCdelta, and p65 phosphorylation. The CAP1-fragment crystallizable region (CAP1-Fc) mitigates PCSK9-mediated inflammatory signal transduction more than the PCSK9 blocking antibody evolocumab does.
PXD042249	38555405	A complex interplay of intra- and extracellular factors regulates the outcome of fetal- and adult-derived MLL-rearranged leukemia. 	Quantitative cellular proteome analysis of Fetal- and Adult-Derived MLL-Rearranged Leukemia	Adult hematopoietic progenitor, Fetal hematopoietic progenitor, MLL-rearranged leukemia, TMTpro	Infant and adult MLL1/KMT2A-rearranged (MLLr) leukemia represents a disease with a dismal prognosis. Here, we present a functional and proteomic characterization of in utero-initiated and adult-onset MLLr leukemia. We reveal that fetal MLL::ENL-expressing lymphomyeloid multipotent progenitors (LMPPs) are intrinsically programmed towards a lymphoid fate but give rise to myeloid leukemia in vivo, highlighting a complex interplay of intra- and extracellular factors in determining disease subtype. We characterize early proteomic events of MLL::ENL-mediated transformation in fetal and adult blood progenitors and reveal that whereas adult pre-leukemic cells are mainly characterized by retained myeloid features and downregulation of ribosomal and metabolic proteins, expression of MLL::ENL in fetal LMPPs leads to enrichment of translation-associated and histone deacetylases signaling proteins, and decreased expression of inflammation and myeloid differentiation proteins. Integrating the proteome of pre-leukemic cells with their secretome and the proteomic composition of the extracellular environment of normal progenitors highlights differential regulation of Igf2 bioavailability, as well as of VLA-4 dimer and its ligandome, upon initiation of fetal- and adult-origin leukemia, with implications for human MLLr leukemia cells' ability to communicate with their environment through granule proteins. Our study has uncovered opportunities for targeting ontogeny-specific proteomic vulnerabilities in in utero-initiated and adult-onset MLLr leukemia.
PXD048763	38556086	Bacterial stigmasterol degradation involving radical flavin delta-24 desaturase and molybdenum-dependent C26 hydroxylase. 	Bacterial stigmasterol degradation involving radical flavin delta-24 desaturase and molybdenum-dependent C26 hydroxylase	anaerobic metabolism, desaturasem, flavin radical enzyme, molybdenum enzyme, steroid degradation, stigmasterol	Sterols are ubiquitous membrane constituents that persist to a large extent in the environment due to their water insolubility and chemical inertness. Recently, an oxygenase-independent sterol degradation pathway was discovered in a cholesterol-grown denitrifying bacterium Sterolibacterium (S.) denitrificans. It achieves hydroxylation of the unactivated primary C26 of the isoprenoid side chain to an allylic alcohol via a phosphorylated intermediate in a four-step ATP-dependent enzyme cascade. However, this pathway is incompatible with the degradation of widely distributed steroids containing a double bond at C22 in the isoprenoid side chain such as the plant sterol stigmasterol. Here, we have enriched a prototypical delta-24 desaturase from S. denitrificans, which catalyses the electron acceptor-dependent oxidation of the intermediate stigmast-1,4-diene-3-one (SDO) to a conjugated (22, 24)-diene. We suggest an alpha4beta4 architecture of the 440 kDa enzyme, with each subunit covalently binding an FMN cofactor to a histidyl residue. As isolated, both flavins are present as red semiquinone radicals, which can be reduced by SDO but cannot be oxidized even with strong oxidising agents. We propose a mechanism involving an allylic radical intermediate in which two flavin semiquinones each abstract one hydrogen atom from the substrate. The conjugated delta-22,24 moiety formed allows for the subsequent hydroxylation of the terminal C26 with water by a heterologously produced molybdenum-dependent steroid C26 dehydrogenase 2 (S26DH2). In conclusion, the pathway elucidated for delta-22 steroids achieves oxygen-independent hydroxylation of the isoprenoid side chain by bypassing the ATP-dependent formation of a phosphorylated intermediate.
PXD046598	38556169	Assessment of Kinome-wide Activity Remodeling Upon Picornavirus Infection. 	Assessment of Kinome-wide Rewiring Upon Picornavirus Infection	2A, CVB3, EMCV, L protein, Picornavirus, Viral life cycle, kinase activation loop, kinome, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Picornaviridae represent a large family of single-stranded positive RNA viruses of which different members can infect both humans and animals. These include the enteroviruses (e.g., poliovirus, coxsackievirus, and rhinoviruses) as well as the cardioviruses (e.g., encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV)). Picornaviruses have evolved to interact with, use, and/or evade cellular host systems to create the optimal environment for replication and spreading. It is known that viruses modify kinase activity during infection, but a proteome-wide overview of the (de)regulation of cellular kinases during picornavirus infection is lacking. To study the kinase activity landscape during picornavirus infection, we here applied dedicated targeted mass spectrometry-based assays covering ~40% of the human kinome. Our data show that upon infection, kinases of the MAPK pathways become activated (e.g., ERK1/2, RSK1/2, JNK1/2/3, p38), while kinases involved in regulating the cell cycle (e.g., CDK1/2, GWL, DYRK3) become inactivated. Additionally, we observed the activation of CHK2, an important kinase involved in the DNA damage response. Using pharmacological kinase inhibitors, we demonstrate that several of these activated kinases are essential for the replication of EMCV. Altogether, the data provide a quantitative understanding of the regulation of kinome activity induced by picornavirus infection, providing a resource important for developing novel antiviral therapeutic interventions.
PXD048079	38558215	Neurobehavioral dysfunction in a mouse model of Down syndrome: upregulation of cystathionine beta-synthase, H2S overproduction, altered protein persulfidation, synaptic dysfunction, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and autophagy. 	Neurobehavioral dysfunction in a mouse model of Down syndrome: upregulation of cystathionine beta-synthase, H2S overproduction, altered protein persulfidation, synaptic dysfunction, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and autophagy	bioenergetics, gasotransmitters, hydrogen sulfide, mitochondria, proliferation	Down syndrome (DS) is a genetic condition where the person is born with an extra chromosome 21. DS is associated with accelerated aging; people with DS are prone to age-related neurological conditions including an early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Using the Dp(17)3Yey/ + mice, which overexpresses a portion of mouse chromosome 17, which encodes for the transsulfuration enzyme cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS), we investigated the functional role of the CBS/hydrogen sulfide (H2S) pathway in the pathogenesis of neurobehavioral dysfunction in DS. The data demonstrate that CBS is higher in the brain of the DS mice than in the brain of wild-type mice, with primary localization in astrocytes. DS mice exhibited impaired recognition memory and spatial learning, loss of synaptosomal function, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and autophagy. Treatment of mice with aminooxyacetate, a prototypical CBS inhibitor, improved neurobehavioral function, reduced the degree of reactive gliosis in the DS brain, increased the ability of the synaptosomes to generate ATP, and reduced endoplasmic reticulum stress. H2S levels in the brain of DS mice were higher than in wild-type mice, but, unexpectedly, protein persulfidation was decreased. Many of the above alterations were more pronounced in the female DS mice. There was a significant dysregulation of metabolism in the brain of DS mice, which affected amino acid, carbohydrate, lipid, endocannabinoid, and nucleotide metabolites; some of these alterations were reversed by treatment of the mice with the CBS inhibitor. Thus, the CBS/H2S pathway contributes to the pathogenesis of neurological dysfunction in DS in the current animal model.
PXD053933	38559033	Chk2 sustains PLK1 activity in mitosis to ensure proper chromosome segregation. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of in vitro PLK1 phosphorylation	PRM, kinase, phosphorylation	Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) protects against genome instability by ensuring timely and accurate mitotic cell division. PLK1 activity is tightly regulated throughout the cell cycle. Although the pathways that initially activate PLK1 in G2 are well-characterized, the factors that directly regulate PLK1 in mitosis remain poorly understood. Here, we identify that human PLK1 activity is sustained by the DNA damage response kinase Checkpoint kinase 2 (Chk2) in mitosis. Chk2 directly phosphorylates PLK1 T210, a residue on its T-loop whose phosphorylation is essential for full PLK1 kinase activity. Loss of Chk2-dependent PLK1 activity causes increased mitotic errors, including chromosome misalignment, chromosome missegregation, and cytokinetic defects. Moreover, Chk2 deficiency increases sensitivity to PLK1 inhibitors, suggesting that Chk2 status may be an informative biomarker for PLK1 inhibitor efficacy. This work demonstrates that Chk2 sustains mitotic PLK1 activity and protects genome stability through discrete functions in interphase DNA damage repair and mitotic chromosome segregation.
PXD050441	38559672	Ischemic preconditioning affects phosphosites and accentuates myocardial stunning while reducing infarction size in rats. 	Ischemic preconditioning predominantly affects phosphosites involved in myocardial contraction and promotes myocardial stunning while reducing infarction size in rats.	Echocardiography, Ischemic preconditioning, Myocardial infarction, Myocardial stunning, Phosphoproteomics, Speckle tracking analysis	Background and aims: Ischemic preconditioning (IPC), i.e., brief periods of ischemia, protect the heart from subsequent prolonged ischemic injury, and reduces infarction size. Myocardial stunning refers to transient loss of contractility in the heart after myocardial ischemia that recovers without permanent damage. The relationship between IPC and myocardial stunning remains incompletely understood. This study aimed primarily to examine the effects of IPC on the relationship between ischemia duration, stunning, and infarct size in an ischemia-reperfusion injury model. Secondarily, this study aimed to examine to which extent the phosphoproteomic changes induced by IPC relate to myocardial contractile function. Methods and results: Rats were subjected to different durations of left anterior descending artery (LAD) occlusion, with or without preceding IPC. Echocardiograms were acquired to assess cardiac contraction in the affected myocardial segment. Infarction size was evaluated using triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining. Phosphoproteomic analysis was performed in heart tissue from preconditioned and non-preconditioned animals. In contrast to rats without IPC, reversible akinesia was observed in a majority of the rats that were subjected to IPC and subsequently exposed to ischemia of 13.5 or 15 min of ischemia. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed significant differential regulation of 786 phosphopeptides between IPC and non-IPC groups, with significant associations with the sarcomere, Z-disc, and actin binding. Conclusion: IPC induces changes in phosphosites of proteins involved in myocardial contraction; and both accentuates post-ischemic myocardial stunning and reduces infarct size.
PXD048092	38559916	Effect of PTFGRN Expression on the Proteomic Profile of A431 Cells and Determination of the PTGFRN Interactome. 	Effect of PTFGRN Expression on the Proteomic Profile of A431 Cells and Determination of the PTGFRN Interactome	A431, Interactome, PTGFRN, co-immunoprecipitate	Prostaglandin F2 receptor negative regulator (PTGFRN) is a transmembrane protein whose expression has been previously implicated in cancer metastasis. However, the exact molecular mechanisms by which PTGFRN influences cancer progression are still unknown. As such, our laboratory set out to investigate how PTGFRN knockdown affected the expression of other proteins. We also carried out coimmunoprecipitation experiments using a monoclonal anti-PTGFRN antibody. We employed mass spectrometry-based proteomics for both experiments to identify proteins that were associated with PTGFRN. Our data show that PTGFRN knockdown increased pathways related to innate immune responses and decreased pathways associated with the synthesis of metabolic precursors and protein processing, among others. Additionally, the coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicated that PTGFRN is associated with proteins involved in processing and metabolism, as well as VEGF signaling molecules. These results highlight the role of PTGFRN as a protein processing regulator, which may be influencing cancer progression.
PXD045217	38559975	Integrative Analysis of Multi-Omic Data for the Characteristics of Endometrial Cancer. 	Integrative analysis of multi-omic data for the characteristics of the Endometrial Cancer	Endometrial cancer, Prediction, Risk score, multi-omics	Endometrial cancer (EC) is a frequently diagnosed gynecologic cancer. Identifying reliable prognostic genes for predicting EC onset is crucial for reducing patient morbidity and mortality. Here, a comprehensive strategy with transcriptomic and proteomic data was performed to measure EC's characteristics. Based on the publicly available RNA-seq data, death-associated protein kinase 3, recombination signal-binding protein for the immunoglobulin kappa J region, and myosin light chain 9 were screened out as potential biomarkers that affect the EC patients' prognosis. A linear model was further constructed by multivariate Cox regression for the prediction of the risk of being malignant. From further integrative analysis, exosomes were found to have a highly enriched role that might participate in EC occurrence. The findings were validated by qRT-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blotting. Collectively, we constructed a prognostic-gene-based model for EC prediction and found that exosomes participate in EC incidents, revealing significantly promising support for the diagnosis of EC.
PXD058120	38561057	Integrative analysis of network pharmacology and proteomics reveal the protective effect of Xiaoqinglong Decotion on neutrophilic asthma. 	Investigating the Therapeutic Impact of Traditional Chinese Medicine on Asthma through Proteomic Sequencing of Mouse Lung Tissue	Asthma, Proteomics Sequencing, Warming Yang and Nourishing Kidney Approach, Xiao Qing Long Tang	ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Xiaoqinglong Decotion (XQLD) is a commonly used Chinese herbal formula in clinical practice, especially for allergic diseases such as asthma. However, its intrinsic mechanism for the treatment of neutrophilic asthma (NA) remains unclear. AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and potential mechanisms of XQLD on NA using network pharmacology and in vivo experiments. MATERIALS AND METHODS: First, the active compounds, potential targets and mechanisms of XQLD against NA were initially elucidated by network pharmacology. Then, OVA/CFA-induced NA mice were treated with XQLD to assess its efficacy. Proteins were then analyzed and quantified using a Tandem Mass Tags approach for differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) to further reveal the mechanisms of NA treatment by XQLD. Finally, the hub genes, critical DEPs and potential pathways were validated. RESULTS: 176 active compounds and 180 targets against NA were identified in XQLD. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network revealed CXCL10, CX3CR1, TLR7, NCF1 and FABP4 as hub genes. In vivo experiments showed that XQLD attenuated inflammatory infiltrates, airway mucus secretion and remodeling in the lungs of NA mice. Moreover, XQLD significantly alleviated airway neutrophil inflammation in NA mice by decreasing the expression of IL-8, MPO and NE. XQLD also reduced the levels of CXCL10, CX3CR1, TLR7, NCF1 and FABP4, which are closely associated with neutrophil inflammation. Proteomics analysis identified 28 overlapping DEPs in the control, NA and XQLD groups, and we found that XQLD inhibited ferroptosis signal pathway (elevated GPX4 and decreased ASCL3) as well as the expression of ARG1, MMP12 and SPP1, while activating the Rap1 signaling pathway. CONCLUSION: This study revealed that inhibition of ARG1, MMP12 and SPP1 expression as well as ferroptosis pathways, and activation of the Rap1 signaling pathway contribute to the therapeutic effect of XQLD on NA.
PXD036973	38561669	Sialylation on vesicular integrin beta1 determined endocytic entry of small extracellular vesicles into recipient cells. 	Sialylation of vesicular integrin beta1 of bladder cancer cells promotes its binding to fibronectin, and endocytic entry of small extracellular vesicles into recipient epithelial cells	Sialic acid, bladder cancer, integrin beta1, small extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND: Small extracellular vesicles (sEV) are closely associated with the development and metastasis of many types of mammalian cancer. Glycoconjugates are highly expressed on sEV and play important roles in sEV biogenesis and their interaction with other cells. However, the study on vesicular glycoconjugates are far behind proteins and nucleic acids. Especially, the functions of sialic acids which are the terminal components of glycoconjugates, are poorly understood in sEV. METHODS: Sialic acid levels on sEV from plasma and bladder cancer cells were determined by ELISA and lectin blotting. Effects of sialylation on sEV uptake were determined by flow cytometry. Vesicular glycoproteins bearing sialic acids responsible for sEV uptake was identified by proteomics and density gradient centrifugation, and their site-specific sialylation functions were assayed by N-glycosylation site mutation. Effects of integrin beta1 bearing sialic acids on the pro-metastatic function of sEV in vivo were explored using Balb/c nu/nu mice. RESULTS: (1) Increased sialic acid levels were observed in sEV from malignant bladder cancer cells. (2) Elimination of sialic acids on sEV impaired sEV uptake by recipient cells. (3) Vesicular integrin beta1 bearing sialic acids was identified to play a key role in sEV uptake. (4) Desialylation of the hybrid domain of vesicular integrin beta1 inhibited its binding to matrix fibronectin, and reduced sEV entry into recipient cells. (5) Sialylation on integrin beta1 affected pro-metastatic function of sEV in Balb/c nu/nu mice. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings indicate important functional roles of sialic acids in sEV uptake and reprogramming plasticity of surrounding normal epithelial cells.
PXD046814	38562583	Schistosoma mansoni infection induces hepatic metallothionein and S100 protein expression alongside metabolic dysfunction in hamsters. 	Hepatic proteomics of Schistosoma mansoni-infected male and female hamsters	Hamster liver, Schistosomiasis, TMT-based proteomics	Schistosomiasis, a widespread neglected tropical disease, presents a complex and multifaceted clinical-pathological profile. Using hamsters as final hosts, we dissected molecular events following Schistosoma mansoni infection in the liver-the organ most severely affected in schistosomiasis patients. Employing tandem mass tag-based proteomics, we studied alterations in the liver proteins in response to various infection modes and genders. We examined livers from female and male hamsters that were: noninfected (control), infected with either unisexual S. mansoni cercariae (single-sex) or both sexes (bisex). The infection induced up-regulation of proteins associated with immune response, cytoskeletal reorganization, and apoptotic signaling. Notably, S. mansoni egg deposition led to the down-regulation of liver factors linked to energy supply and metabolic processes. Gender-specific responses were observed, with male hamsters showing higher susceptibility, supported by more differentially expressed proteins than found in females. Of note, metallothionein-2 and S100a6 proteins exhibited substantial up-regulation in livers of both genders, suggesting their pivotal roles in the liver's injury response. Immunohistochemistry and real-time-qPCR confirmed strong up-regulation of metallothionein-2 expression in the cytoplasm and nucleus upon the infection. Similar findings were seen for S100a6, which localized around granulomas and portal tracts. We also observed perturbations in metabolic pathways, including down-regulation of enzymes involved in xenobiotic biotransformation, cellular energy metabolism, and lipid modulation. Furthermore, lipidomic analyses through liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging identified extensive alterations, notably in cardiolipin and triacylglycerols, suggesting specific roles of lipids during pathogenesis. These findings provide unprecedented insights into the hepatic response to S. mansoni infection, shedding light on the complexity of liver pathology in this disease.
PXD048944	38562857	Auto-sumoylation of the Ubc9 E2 SUMO-conjugating Enzyme Extends Cellular Lifespan. 	Auto-sumoylation   of the Ubc9 E2 SUMO-conjugating Enzyme Extends Cellular Lifespan	SUMO, Ubc9. Lifespan	Calorie restriction (CR) provides anti-aging benefits through diverse processes, such as reduced metabolism and growth and increased mitochondrial activity. Although controversy still exists regarding CR-mediated lifespan effects, many researchers are seeking interventions that mimic the effects of CR. Yeast has proven to be a useful model system for aging studies, including CR effects. We report here that yeast adapted through in vitro evolution to the severe cellular stress caused by loss of the Ulp2 SUMO-specific protease exhibit both enhanced growth rates and replicative lifespan, and they have altered gene expression profiles similar to those observed in CR. Notably, in certain evolved ulp2Delta lines, a dramatic increase in the auto-sumoylation of Ubc9 E2 SUMO-conjugating enzyme results in altered regulation of multiple targets involved in energy metabolism and translation at both transcriptional and post-translational levels. This increase is essential for the survival of aged cells and CR-mediated lifespan extension. Thus, we suggest that high Ubc9 auto-sumoylation exerts potent anti-aging effects by promoting efficient energy metabolism-driven improvements in cell replication abilities. This potential could be therapeutically explored for the development of novel CR-mimetic strategies.
PXD046507	38565644	Proteogenomic insights into early-onset endometrioid endometrial carcinoma: predictors for fertility-sparing therapy response. 	Multidimensional Molecular Characteristics of Early-Onset Endometrioid Endometrial Carcinoma, And Potential Predictors Of Response To Fertility Sparing Therapy	Carcinogen signature, Early-Onset, Endometrial carcinoma, Fertility-sparing treatment, SIGLEC10	Endometrial carcinoma remains a public health concern with a growing incidence, particularly in younger women. Preserving fertility is a crucial consideration in the management of early-onset endometrioid endometrial carcinoma (EEEC), particularly in patients under 40 who maintain both reproductive desire and capacity. To illuminate the molecular characteristics of EEEC, we undertook a large-scale multi-omics study of 215 patients with endometrial carcinoma, including 81 with EEEC. We reveal an unexpected association between exposome-related mutational signature and EEEC, characterized by specific CTNNB1 and SIGLEC10 hotspot mutations and disruption of downstream pathways. Interestingly, SIGLEC10(Q144K) mutation in EEECs resulted in aberrant SIGLEC-10 protein expression and promoted progestin resistance by interacting with estrogen receptor alpha. We also identified potential protein biomarkers for progestin response in fertility-sparing treatment for EEEC. Collectively, our study establishes a proteogenomic resource of EEECs, uncovering the interactions between exposome and genomic susceptibilities that contribute to the development of primary prevention and early detection strategies for EEECs.
PXD050621	38567730	RecA-dependent or independent recombination of plasmid DNA generates a conflict with the host EcoKI immunity by launching restriction alleviation. 	Total proteome of AB1157 with RA-inducing plasmid pTn5053	AB1157, EcoKI, restriction alleviation. E. coli	Bacterial defence systems are tightly regulated to avoid autoimmunity. In Type I restriction-modification (R-M) systems, a specific mechanism called restriction alleviation (RA) controls the activity of the restriction module. In the case of the Escherichia coli Type I R-M system EcoKI, RA proceeds through ClpXP-mediated proteolysis of restriction complexes bound to non-methylated sites that appear after replication or reparation of host DNA. Here, we show that RA is also induced in the presence of plasmids carrying EcoKI recognition sites, a phenomenon we refer to as plasmid-induced RA. Further, we show that the anti-restriction behavior of plasmid-borne non-conjugative transposons such as Tn5053, previously attributed to their ardD loci, is due to plasmid-induced RA. Plasmids carrying both EcoKI and Chi sites induce RA in RecA- and RecBCD-dependent manner. However, inactivation of both RecA and RecBCD restores RA, indicating that there exists an alternative, RecA-independent, homologous recombination pathway that is blocked in the presence of RecBCD. Indeed, plasmid-induced RA in a RecBCD-deficient background does not depend on the presence of Chi sites. We propose that processing of random dsDNA breaks in plasmid DNA via homologous recombination generates non-methylated EcoKI sites, which attract EcoKI restriction complexes channeling them for ClpXP-mediated proteolysis.
PXD050466	38568807	TMC7 functions as a suppressor of Piezo2 in primary sensory neurons blunting peripheral mechanotransduction. 	Mass spec results of Tmc7-GST pull-down	DRG, Tmc7	The transmembrane channel-like (TMC) protein family comprises eight members, with TMC1 and TMC2 being extensively studied. This study demonstrates substantial co-expression of TMC7 with the mechanosensitive channel Piezo2 in somatosensory neurons. Genetic deletion of TMC7 in primary sensory ganglia neurons in vivo enhances sensitivity in both physiological and pathological mechanosensory transduction. This deletion leads to an increase in proportion of rapidly adapting (RA) currents conducted by Piezo2 in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and accelerates RA deactivation kinetics. In HEK293 cells expressing both proteins, TMC7 significantly suppresses the current amplitudes of co-expressed Piezo2. Our findings reveal that TMC7 and Piezo2 exhibit physical interactions, and both proteins also physically interact with cytoskeletal beta-actin. We hypothesize that TMC7 functions as an inhibitory modulator of Piezo2 in DRG neurons, either through direct inhibition or by disrupting the transmission of mechanical forces from the cytoskeleton to the channel.
PXD048938	38569191	Proteomics Defines Plasma Biomarkers for the Early Diagnosis of Biliary Atresia. 	Proteomics defines plasma biomarkers for the early diagnosis of biliary atresia	DIA, PRM, biliary atresia, cholestasis, machine learning, plasma	Early diagnosis of biliary atresia (BA) is crucial for improving the chances of survival and preserving the liver function of pediatric patients with BA. Herein, we performed proteomics analysis using data-independent acquisition (DIA) and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) to explore potential biomarkers for the early diagnosis of BA compared to other non-BA jaundice cases. Consequently, we detected and validated differential protein expression in the plasma of patients with BA compared to the plasma of patients with intrahepatic cholestasis. Bioinformatics analysis revealed the enriched biological processes characteristic of BA by identifying the differential expression of specific proteins. Signaling pathway analysis revealed changes in the expression levels of proteins associated with an alteration in immunoglobulin levels, which is indicative of immune dysfunction in BA. The combination of polymeric immunoglobulin receptor expression and immunoglobulin lambda variable chain (IGL c2225_light_IGLV1-47_IGLJ2), as revealed via machine learning, provided a useful early diagnostic model for BA, with a sensitivity of 0.8, specificity of 1, accuracy of 0.89, and area under the curve value of 0.944. Thus, our study identified a possible effective plasma biomarker for the early diagnosis of BA and could help elucidate the underlying mechanisms of BA.
PXD048358	38569368	Refinement of paramagnetic bead-based digestion protocol for automatic sample preparation using an artificial neural network. 	Refinement of paramagnetic bead-based digestion protocol for automatic sample preparation using an artificial neural network	Bile, SP3 protein digestion, artificial neural network, magnetic beads, protein aggregation	Despite technological advances in the proteomics field, sample preparation still represents the main bottleneck in mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. Bead-based protein aggregation techniques have recently emerged as an efficient, reproducible, and high-throughput alternative for protein extraction and digestion. Here, a refined paramagnetic bead-based digestion protocol is described for Opentrons(R) OT-2 platform (OT-2) as a versatile, reproducible, and affordable alternative for the automatic sample preparation for MS analysis. For this purpose, an artificial neural network (ANN) was applied to maximize the number of peptides without missed cleavages identified in HeLa extract by combining factors such as the quantity (mug) of trypsin/Lys-C and beads (MagReSyn(R) Amine), % (w/v) SDS, % (v/v) acetonitrile, and time of digestion (h). ANN model predicted the optimal conditions for the digestion of 50 mug of HeLa extract, pointing to the use of 2.5% (w/v) SDS and 300 mug of beads for sample preparation and long-term digestion (16h) with 0.15 mug Lys-C and 2.5 mug trypsin (=~1:17 ratio). Based on the results of the ANN model, the manual protocol was automated in OT-2. The performance of the automatic protocol was evaluated with different sample types, including human plasma, Arabidopsis thaliana leaves, Escherichia coli cells, and mouse tissue cortex, showing great reproducibility and low sample-to-sample variability in all cases. In addition, we tested the performance of this method in the preparation of a challenging biological fluid such as rat bile, a proximal fluid that is rich in bile salts, bilirubin, cholesterol, and fatty acids, among other MS interferents. Compared to other protocols described in the literature for the extraction and digestion of bile proteins, the method described here allowed identify 385 unique proteins, thus contributing to improving the coverage of the bile proteome.
PXD044854	38570831	The protein phosphatase-2A subunit PR130 is involved in the formation of cytotoxic protein aggregates in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells. 	The protein phosphatase-2A subunit PR130 is linked to cytotoxic protein aggregate formation in mesenchymal pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells		As a major source of cellular serine and threonine phosphatase activity, protein phosphatase-2A (PP2A) modulates signaling pathways in health and disease. PP2A complexes consist of catalytic, scaffolding, and B-type subunits. Seventeen PP2A B-type subunits direct PP2A complexes to selected substrates. It is ill-defined how PP2A B-type subunits determine the growth and drug responsiveness of tumor cells. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a disease with poor prognosis. We analyzed the responses of murine and human mesenchymal and epithelial PDAC cells to the specific PP2A inhibitor phendione. We assessed protein levels by immunoblot and proteomics and cell fate by flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and genetic manipulation. We show that murine mesenchymal PDAC cells express significantly higher levels of the PP2A B-type subunit PR130 than epithelial PDAC cells. This overexpression of PR130 is associated with a dependency of such metastasis-prone cells on the catalytic activity of PP2A. Phendione induces apoptosis and an accumulation of cytotoxic protein aggregates in murine mesenchymal and human PDAC cells. These processes occur independently of the frequently mutated tumor suppressor p53. Proteomic analyses reveal that phendione upregulates the chaperone HSP70 in mesenchymal PDAC cells. Inhibition of HSP70 promotes phendione-induced apoptosis and phendione promotes a proteasomal degradation of PR130. Genetic elimination of PR130 sensitizes murine and human PDAC cells to phendione-induced apoptosis and protein aggregate formation. These data suggest that the PP2A-PR130 complex dephosphorylates and thereby prevents the aggregation of proteins in tumor cells.
PXD046937	38572503	Proteo-metabolomic Dissection of Extracellular Matrix Reveals Alterations in Cell Wall Integrity and Calcium Signaling Governs Wall-Associated Susceptibility during Stem Rot Disease in Jute. 	iTRAQ based disease responsive extracellular matrix proteome of jute infected with Macrophomina Phaseolina	Jute, extracellular matrix, stem rot disease	The plant surveillance system confers specificity to disease and immune states by activating distinct molecular pathways linked to cellular functionality. The extracellular matrix (ECM), a preformed passive barrier, is dynamically remodeled at sites of interaction with pathogenic microbes. Stem rot, caused by Macrophomina phaseolina, adversely affects fiber production in jute. However, how wall related susceptibility affects the ECM proteome and metabolome remains undetermined in bast fiber crops. Here, stem rot responsive quantitative temporal ECM proteome and metabolome were developed in jute upon M. phaseolina infection. Morpho-histological examination revealed that leaf shredding was accompanied by reactive oxygen species production in patho-stressed jute. Electron microscopy showed disease progression and ECM architecture remodeling due to necrosis in the later phase of fungal attack. Using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitative proteomics and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, we identified 415 disease-responsive proteins involved in wall integrity, acidification, proteostasis, hydration, and redox homeostasis. The disease-related correlation network identified functional hubs centered on alpha-galactosidase, pectinesterase, and thaumatin. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis pointed toward enrichment of disease-responsive metabolites associated with the glutathione pathway, TCA cycle, and cutin, suberin, and wax metabolism. Data demonstrated that wall-degrading enzymes, structural carbohydrates, and calcium signaling govern rot responsive wall-susceptibility. Proteomics data were deposited in Pride (PXD046937; PXD046939).
PXD040795	38572638	Projected ocean temperatures impair key proteins used in vision of octopus hatchlings. 	Global response of Octopus berrima to ocean warming	DIA, embryo, global warming, octopus, thermal stress	Global warming is one of the most significant and widespread effects of climate change. While early life stages are particularly vulnerable to increasing temperatures, little is known about the molecular processes that underpin their capacity to adapt to temperature change during early development. Using a quantitative proteomics approach, we investigated the effects of thermal stress on octopus embryos. We exposed Octopus berrima embryos to different temperature treatments (control 19degreesC, current summer temperature 22degreesC, or future projected summer temperature 25degreesC) until hatching. By comparing their protein expression levels, we found that future projected temperatures significantly reduced levels of key eye proteins such as S-crystallin and retinol dehydrogenase 12, suggesting the embryonic octopuses had impaired vision at elevated temperature. We also found that this was coupled with a cellular stress response that included a significant elevation of proteins involved in molecular chaperoning and redox regulation. Energy resources were also redirected away from non-essential processes such as growth and digestion. These findings, taken together with the high embryonic mortality observed under the highest temperature, identify critical physiological functions of embryonic octopuses that may be impaired under future warming conditions. Our findings demonstrate the severity of the thermal impacts on the early life stages of octopuses as demonstrated by quantitative proteome changes that affect vision, protein chaperoning, redox regulation and energy metabolism as critical physiological functions that underlie the responses to thermal stress.
PXD049077	38572994	Identification of the Most Immunoreactive Antigens of Candida auris to IgGs from Systemic Infections in Mice. 	Identification of the most immunoreactive antigens of Candida auris to sera from infected mice	Candida auris, antigen, systemic infections, western blot	The delay in making a correct diagnosis of Candida auris causes concern in the healthcare system setting, and immunoproteomics studies are important to identify immunoreactive proteins for new diagnostic strategies. In this study, immunocompetent murine systemic infections caused by non-aggregative and aggregative phenotypes of C. auris and by Candida albicans and Candida haemulonii were carried out, and the obtained sera were used to study their immunoreactivity against C. auris proteins. The results showed higher virulence, in terms of infection signs, weight loss, and histopathological damage, of the non-aggregative isolate. Moreover, C. auris was less virulent than C. albicans but more than C. haemulonii. Regarding the immunoproteomics study, 13 spots recognized by sera from mice infected with both C. auris phenotypes and analyzed by mass spectrometry corresponded to enolase, phosphoglycerate kinase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and phosphoglycerate mutase. These four proteins were also recognized by sera obtained from human patients with disseminated C. auris infection but not by sera obtained from mice infected with C. albicans or Aspergillus fumigatus. Spot identification data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD049077. In conclusion, this study showed that the identified proteins could be potential candidates to be studied as new diagnostic or even therapeutic targets for C. auris.
PXD048963	38573110	Cobalamins function as allosteric activators of an Angelman syndrome-associated UBE3A/E6AP variant. 	Cobalamins function as allosteric activators of an Angelman syndrome-associated UBE3A/E6AP variant	Angelman syndrome, LiP-MS, UBE3A, qXL-MS, small molecule activators, structural proteomics	Genetic aberrations of the maternal UBE3A allele, which encodes the E3 ubiquitin ligase E6AP, are the cause of Angelman syndrome (AS), an imprinting disorder. In most cases, the maternal UBE3A allele is not expressed. Yet, approximately 10 percent of AS individuals harbor distinct point mutations in the maternal allele resulting in the expression of full-length E6AP variants that frequently display compromised ligase activity. In a high-throughput screen, we identified cyanocobalamin, a vitamin B12-derivative, and several alloxazine derivatives as activators of the AS-linked E6AP-F583S variant. Furthermore, we show by cross-linking coupled to mass spectrometry that cobalamins affect the structural dynamics of E6AP-F583S and apply limited proteolysis coupled to mass spectrometry to obtain information about the regions of E6AP that are involved in, or are affected by binding cobalamins and alloxazine derivatives. Our data suggest that dietary supplementation with vitamin B12 can be beneficial for AS individuals.
PXD044043	38574432	Widespread S-persulfidation in activated macrophages as a protective mechanism against oxidative-inflammatory stress. 	Widespread cysteine persulfidation in activated macrophages as a protective mechanism against oxidative-inflammatory stress	macrophages, oxidative-inflammatory stress	Acute inflammatory responses often involve the production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species by innate immune cells, particularly macrophages. How activated macrophages protect themselves in the face of oxidative-inflammatory stress remains a long-standing question. Recent evidence implicates reactive sulfur species (RSS) in inflammatory responses; however, how endogenous RSS affect macrophage function and response to oxidative and inflammatory insults remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the endogenous pathways of RSS biogenesis and clearance in macrophages, with a particular focus on exploring how hydrogen sulfide (H2S)-mediated S-persulfidation influences macrophage responses to oxidative-inflammatory stress. We show that classical activation of mouse or human macrophages using lipopolysaccharide and interferon-gamma (LPS/IFN-gamma) triggers substantial production of H2S/RSS, leading to widespread protein persulfidation. Biochemical and proteomic analyses revealed that this surge in cellular S-persulfidation engaged ~2% of total thiols and modified over 800 functionally diverse proteins. S-persulfidation was found to be largely dependent on the cystine importer xCT and the H2S-generating enzyme cystathionine gamma-lyase and was independent of changes in the global proteome. We further investigated the role of the sulfide-oxidizing enzyme sulfide quinone oxidoreductase (SQOR), and found that it acts as a negative regulator of S-persulfidation. Elevated S-persulfidation following LPS/IFN-gamma stimulation or SQOR inhibition was associated with increased resistance to oxidative stress. Upregulation of persulfides also inhibited the activation of the macrophage NLRP3 inflammasome and provided protection against inflammatory cell death. Collectively, our findings shed light on the metabolism and effects of RSS in macrophages and highlight the crucial role of persulfides in enabling macrophages to withstand and alleviate oxidative-inflammatory stress.
PXD041558	38574990	Use of data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry to identify an objective serum indicator of the need for osteoporotic therapeutic intervention. 	Comprehensive human serum spectral library	DIA, serum, spectral library	Osteoporosis is characterized by weakened bone microstructure and loss of bone mass. Current diagnostic criteria for osteoporosis are based on the T-score, which is a measure of bone mineral density. However, osteoporotic fragility fractures can occur regardless of the T-score, underscoring the need for additional criteria for the early detection of patients at fracture risk. To identify indicators of reduced bone strength, we performed serum proteomic analysis using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry with serum samples from two patient groups, one with osteoporosis but no fractures and the other with osteopenia and fragility fractures. Collective evaluation of the results identified six serum proteins that changed to a similar extent in both patient groups compared with controls. Of these, extracellular matrix protein 1 (ECM1), which contributes to bone formation, showed the most significant increase in serum levels in both patient groups. An ELISA-based assay suggested that ECM1 could serve as a serum indicator of the need for therapeutic intervention; however, further prospective studies with a larger sample size are necessary to confirm these results. The present findings may contribute to the provision of early and appropriate therapeutic strategies for patients at risk of osteoporotic fractures. SIGNIFICANCE: This study aimed to identify objective serum indicators of the need for therapeutic intervention in individuals at risk of osteoporotic fracture. Comprehensive proteome analyses of serum collected from patients with osteoporosis but no fractures, patients with osteopenia and fragility fractures, and controls were performed by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. Collective evaluation of the proteome analysis data and ELISA-based assays identified serum ECM1 as a potential objective marker of the risk of fragility fractures in patients with osteoporosis or osteopenia. The findings are an important step toward the development of appropriate bone health management methods to improve well-being and maintain quality of life.
PXD047066	38576002	Therapy-induced senescent tumor cell-derived extracellular vesicles promote colorectal cancer progression through SERPINE1-mediated NF-kappaB p65 nuclear translocation. 	Extracellular vesicles secreted from senescent cancer cells promote colorectal cancer progression through SERPINE1- LCMS/MS analysis	LCMS/MS, SERPINE1	BACKGROUND: Cellular senescence frequently occurs during anti-cancer treatment, and persistent senescent tumor cells (STCs) unfavorably promote tumor progression through paracrine secretion of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have recently emerged as a novel component of the SASP and primarily mediate the tumor-promoting effect of the SASP. Of note, the potential effect of EVs released from STCs on tumor progression remains largely unknown. METHODS: We collected tumor tissues from two cohorts of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients to examine the expression of p16, p21, and SERPINE1 before and after anti-cancer treatment. Cohort 1 included 22 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) who received neoadjuvant therapy before surgical resection. Cohort 2 included 30 patients with metastatic CRC (mCRC) who received first-line irinotecan-contained treatment. CCK-8, transwell, wound-healing assay, and tumor xenograft experiments were carried out to determine the impacts of EVs released from STCs on CRC progression in vitro and in vivo. Quantitative proteomic analysis was applied to identify protein cargo inside EVs secreted from STCs. Immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometer identification were utilized to explore the binding partners of SERPINE1. The interaction of SERPINE1 with p65 was verified by co-immunoprecipitation, and their co-localization was confirmed by immunofluorescence. RESULTS: Chemotherapeutic agents and irradiation could potently induce senescence in CRC cells in vitro and in human CRC tissues. The more significant elevation of p16 and p21 expression in patients after anti-cancer treatment displayed shorter disease-free survival (DFS) for LARC or progression-free survival (PFS) for mCRC. We observed that compared to non-STCs, STCs released an increased number of EVs enriched in SERPINE1, which further promoted the progression of recipient cancer cells. Targeting SERPINE1 with a specific inhibitor, tiplaxtinin, markedly attenuated the tumor-promoting effect of STCs-derived EVs. Additionally, the patients with greater increment of SERPINE1 expression after anti-cancer treatment had shorter DFS for LARC or PFS for mCRC. Mechanistically, SERPINE1 bound to p65, promoting its nuclear translocation and subsequently activating the NF-kappaB signaling pathway. CONCLUSIONS: We provide the in vivo evidence of the clinical prognostic implications of therapy-induced senescence. Our results revealed that STCs were responsible for CRC progression by producing large amounts of EVs enriched in SERPINE1. These findings further confirm the crucial role of therapy-induced senescence in tumor progression and offer a potential therapeutic strategy for CRC treatment.
PXD028789	38576152	Phosphoproteomic analysis of the adaption of epididymal epithelial cells to corticosterone challenge. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of the adaption of epididymal epithelial cells to corticosterone challenge 	Cellular signaling, corticosterone, epididymis, phosphoproteomics, sperm maturation, stress response	BACKGROUND: The epididymis has long been of interest owing to its role in promoting the functional maturation of the male germline. More recent evidence has also implicated the epididymis as an important sensory tissue responsible for remodeling of the sperm epigenome, both under physiological conditions and in response to diverse forms of environmental stress. Despite this knowledge, the intricacies of the molecular pathways involved in regulating the adaptation of epididymal tissue to paternal stressors remains to be fully resolved. OBJECTIVE: The overall objective of this study was to investigate the direct impact of corticosterone challenge on a tractable epididymal epithelial cell line (i.e., mECap18 cells), in terms of driving adaptation of the cellular proteome and phosphoproteome signaling networks. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The newly developed phosphoproteomic platform EasyPhos coupled with sequencing via an Orbitrap Exploris 480 mass spectrometer, was applied to survey global changes in the mECap18 cell (phospho)proteome resulting from sub-chronic (10-day) corticosterone challenge. RESULTS: The imposed corticosterone exposure regimen elicited relatively subtle modifications of the global mECap18 proteome (i.e., only 73 out of 4171 [~1.8%] proteins displayed altered abundance). By contrast, ~15% of the mECap18 phosphoproteome was substantially altered following corticosterone challenge. In silico analysis of the corresponding parent proteins revealed an activation of pathways linked to DNA damage repair and oxidative stress responses as well as a reciprocal inhibition of pathways associated with organismal death. Corticosterone challenge also induced the phosphorylation of several proteins linked to the biogenesis of microRNAs. Accordingly, orthogonal validation strategies confirmed an increase in DNA damage, which was ameliorated upon selective kinase inhibition, and an altered abundance profile of a subset of microRNAs in corticosterone-treated cells. CONCLUSIONS: Together, these data confirm that epididymal epithelial cells are reactive to corticosterone challenge, and that their response is tightly coupled to the opposing action of cellular kinases and phosphatases.
PXD049101	38576392	Quantitative Pattern of hPTMs by Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics with Implications for Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. 	Quantitative Pattern of hPTMs by Mass Spectrometry-based Proteomics with Implications for Triple-Negative Breast Cancer	Breast Cancer, Histone Post-Translational Modifications, Identification and Quantification, Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is known for its aggressive nature, and TNBC management is currently challenging due to the lack of effective targets. Despite the importance of histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) in breast cancer, their associations with molecular subtypes of breast cancer, especially TNBC, are poorly understood. In this study, a combination of untargeted and targeted proteomics approaches, supplemented by a derivatization method, was applied to breast cancer cells and tissue samples. Untargeted proteomics of eight breast cancer cell lines belonging to different molecular subtypes revealed 36 modified peptides with 12 lysine modification sites in histone H3, and the most frequently reported top 5 histone H3 methylation and acetylation sites were covered. Then, targeted proteomics was carried out to quantify the total 20 target hPTMs at the covered modification sites (i.e., mono-, di-, trimethylation, and acetylation for each site), indicating the difficulty in distinguishing TNBC cells from normal cells. Subsequently, the analysis in TNBC patients revealed significant expression differences in 4 specific hPTMs (H3K14ac, H3K27me1, H3K36me2, and H3K36me3) between TNBC and adjacent normal tissue samples. These unique hPTM patterns allowed for the differentiation of TNBC from normal cases. This finding provides promising implications for advancing targeted treatment strategies for TNBC in the future.
PXD047986	38576719	Engineering cell-free systems by chemoproteomic-assisted phenotypic screening. 	Engineering cell-free systems by chemoproteomic-assisted phenotypic screening. 	Cell Free Protein synthesis, Thermal-assisted	Phenotypic screening is a valuable tool to both understand and engineer complex biological systems. We demonstrate the functionality of this approach in the development of cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) technology. Phenotypic screening identified numerous compounds that enhanced protein production in yeast lysate CFPS reactions. Notably, many of these were competitive ATP kinase inhibitors, with the exploitation of their inherent substrate promiscuity redirecting ATP flux towards heterologous protein expression. Chemoproteomic-guided strain engineering partially phenocopied drug effects, with a 30% increase in protein yield observed upon deletion of the ATP-consuming SSA1 component of the HSP70 chaperone. Moreover, drug-mediated metabolic rewiring coupled with template optimization generated the highest protein yields in yeast CFPS to date using a hitherto less efficient, but more cost-effective glucose energy regeneration system. Our approach highlights the utility of target-agnostic phenotypic screening and target identification to deconvolute cell-lysate complexity, adding to the expanding repertoire of strategies for improving CFPS.
PXD036388	38577373	A pyridinium-based strategy for lysine-selective protein modification and chemoproteomic profiling in live cells. 	PTMC_The proteomic profiles of pyridinium-based strategy for lysine-selective protein modification in live cells	ABPP, in live cells, pyridium activated ester, reactive-lysine residues	Protein active states are dynamically regulated by various modifications; thus, endogenous protein modification is an important tool for understanding protein functions and networks in complicated biological systems. Here we developed a new pyridinium-based approach to label lysine residues under physiological conditions that is low-toxicity, efficient, and lysine-selective. Furthermore, we performed a large-scale analysis of the ~70% lysine-selective proteome in MCF-7 cells using activity-based protein profiling (ABPP). We quantifically assessed 1216 lysine-labeled peptides in cell lysates and identified 386 modified lysine sites including 43 mitochondrial-localized proteins in live MCF-7 cells. Labeled proteins significantly preferred the mitochondria. This pyridinium-based methodology demonstrates the importance of analyzing endogenous proteins under native conditions and provides a robust chemical strategy utilizing either lysine-selective protein labeling or spatiotemporal profiling in a living system.
PXD045382	38577891	Sse1, Hsp110 chaperone of yeast, controls the cellular fate during Endoplasmic reticulum stress. 	Sse1, Hsp110 chaperone of yeast, controls the cellular fate during Endoplasmic Reticulum-stress	Endoplasmic Reticulum Unfolded Protein Response, Heat Shock Protein 110, Heat Shock Protein 70, Molecular Chaperone, Protein Homeostasis, Tunicamycin, cell cycle arrest	Sse1 is a cytosolic Hsp110 molecular chaperone of yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Its multifaceted roles in cellular protein homeostasis as a Nucleotide Exchange Factor (NEF), as a protein-disaggregase and as a Chaperone linked to Protein Synthesis (CLIPS) are well documented. In the current study, we show that SSE1 genetically interacts with IRE1 and HAC1, the Endoplasmic Reticulum-Unfolded Protein Response (ER-UPR) sensors implicating its role in ER protein homeostasis. Interestingly, the absence of this chaperone imparts unusual resistance to tunicamycin-induced ER stress which depends on the intact Ire1-Hac1 mediated ER-UPR signalling. Furthermore, cells lacking SSE1 show inefficient ER-stress-responsive reorganization of translating ribosomes from polysomes to monosomes that drive uninterrupted protein translation during tunicamycin stress. In consequence, the sse1Delta strain shows prominently faster ER-UPR induction and restoration of homeostasis, in comparison to the wildtype (WT) cells. Importantly, Sse1 plays a critical role in controlling the ER-stress-mediated cell division arrest, which is escaped in sse1Delta strain during chronic tunicamycin stress. Accordingly, sse1Delta strain shows significantly higher cell viability in comparison to WT yeast imparting the stark fitness following short-term as well as long-term tunicamycin stress. These data, all together, suggest that cytosolic chaperone Sse1 is an important modulator of ER stress response in yeast and it controls stress-induced cell division arrest and cell death during overwhelming ER stress induced by tunicamycin.
PXD042033	38578096	The polyextremophile Natranaerobius thermophilus adopts a dual adaptive strategy to long-term salinity stress, simultaneously accumulating compatible solutes and K. 	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic profiling of Natranaerobius thermophilus in response to salinity stress	Natranaerobius thermophilus, iTRAQ, salinity stress	The bacterium Natranaerobius thermophilus is an extremely halophilic alkalithermophile that can thrive under conditions of high salinity (3.3-3.9 M Na(+)), alkaline pH (9.5), and elevated temperature (53degreesC). To understand the molecular mechanisms of salt adaptation in N. thermophilus, it is essential to investigate the protein, mRNA, and key metabolite levels on a molecular basis. Based on proteome profiling of N. thermophilus under 3.1, 3.7, and 4.3 M Na(+) conditions compared to 2.5 M Na(+) condition, we discovered that a hybrid strategy, combining the "compatible solute" and "salt-in" mechanisms, was utilized for osmotic adjustment dur ing the long-term salinity adaptation of N. thermophilus. The mRNA level of key proteins and the intracellular content of compatible solutes and K(+) support this conclusion. Specifically, N. thermophilus employs the glycine betaine ABC transporters (Opu and ProU families), Na(+)/solute symporters (SSS family), and glutamate and proline synthesis pathways to adapt to high salinity. The intracellular content of compatible solutes, including glycine betaine, glutamate, and proline, increases with rising salinity levels in N. thermophilus. Additionally, the upregulation of Na(+)/ K(+)/ H(+) transporters facilitates the maintenance of intracellular K(+) concentration, ensuring cellular ion homeostasis under varying salinities. Furthermore, N. thermophilus exhibits cytoplasmic acidification in response to high Na(+) concentrations. The median isoelectric points of the upregulated proteins decrease with increasing salinity. Amino acid metabolism, carbohydrate and energy metabolism, membrane transport, and bacterial chemotaxis activities contribute to the adaptability of N. thermophilus under high salt stress. This study provides new data that support further elucidating the complex adaptation mechanisms of N. thermophilus under multiple extremes.IMPORTANCEThis study represents the first report of simultaneous utilization of two salt adaptation mechanisms within the Clostridia class in response to long-term salinity stress.
PXD049028	38579929	The one hour human proteome. 	The one hour human proteome: Orbitrap Astral Mass Spectrometer	DIA, Orbitrap Astral, high-throughput	We describe deep analysis of the human proteome in less than one hour. We achieve this expedited proteome characterization by leveraging state-of-the-art sample preparation, chromatographic separations, data analysis tools, and by using the new Orbitrap Astral mass spectrometer equipped with a quadrupole mass filter, a high-field Orbitrap mass analyzer, and an asymmetric track lossless (Astral) mass analyzer. The system offers high MS/MS acquisition speed of 200 Hz and detects hundreds of peptide sequences per second within data independent- or data-dependent acquisition modes of operation. The fast-switching capabilities of the new quadrupole complement the sensitivity and fast ion scanning of the Astral analyzer to enable narrow-bin data-independent analysis (DIA) methods. Over a 30-minute active chromatographic method consuming a total analysis time of 56 minutes, the Q-Orbitrap-Astral hybrid MS collects an average of 4,319 MS(1) scans and 438,062 MS/MS scans per run, producing 235,916 peptide sequences (1% false discovery rate (FDR)). On average, each 30-minute analysis achieved detection of 10,411 protein groups (1% FDR). We conclude, with these results and alongside other recent reports, that the one-hour human proteome is within reach.
PXD045553	38580019	Proteomic analysis of Viscozyme L and its major enzyme components for pectic substrate degradation. 	Proteomic analysis of Viscozyme L and its major enzyme components for pectic substrate degradation	Aspergillus aculeatus, CAZyme, Viscozyme L, carbohydrate-active enzymes, sugar beet pulp	Enzymatic degradation of plant biomass requires the coordinated action of various enzymes. In this study, the production of reducing sugars from pectic substrates and sugar beet pulp (SBP) was investigated and compared using commercial enzyme preparations, including M2, pectinase (E1), Viscozyme L (V-L) and L-40. V-L, a cellulolytic enzyme mix produced by Aspergillus sp. was further evaluated as the most robust enzyme cocktail with the strongest SBP degradation ability in terms of the release of monosaccharides, methanol, and acetate from SBP. Mass-spectrometry-based proteomics analysis of V-L revealed 156 individual proteins. Of these, 101 proteins were annotated as containing a carbohydrate-active enzyme module. Notably, of the 50 most abundant proteins, ca. 44 % were predicted to be involved in pectin degradation. To reveal the role of individual putative key enzymes in pectic substrate decomposition, two abundant galacturonases (PglA and PglB), were heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris and further characterized. PglA and PglB demonstrated maximum activity at 57 degreesC and 68 degreesC, respectively, and exhibited endo-type cleavage patterns towards polygalacturonic acid. Further studies along this line may lead to a better understanding of efficient SBP degradation and may help to design improved artificial enzyme mixtures with lower complexity for future application in biotechnology.
PXD049148	38580754	Proteomic analysis of DEN and CCl4-induced hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model. 	Proteomic analysis of DEN and CCl4-induced hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model	carbon tetrachloride, diethylnitrosamine, hepatocellular carcinoma, mouse model	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) seriously threatens human health, mostly developed from liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. Since diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced HCC mouse model almost recapitulates the characteristic of HCC with fibrosis and inflammation, it is taken as an essential tool to investigate the pathogenesis of HCC. However, a comprehensive understanding of the protein expression profile of this model is little. In this study, we performed proteomic analysis of this model to elucidate its proteomic characteristics. Compared with normal liver tissues, 432 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in tumor tissues, among which 365 were up-regulated and 67 were down-regulated. Through Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), protein-protein interaction networks (PPI) analysis and Gene-set enrichment analysis (GSEA) analysis of DEPs, we identified two distinguishing features of DEN and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model in protein expression, the upregulation of actin cytoskeleton and branched-chain amino acids metabolic reprogramming. In addition, matching DEPs from the mouse model to homologous proteins in the human HCC cohort revealed that the DEN and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model was relatively similar to the subtype of HCC with poor prognosis. Finally, combining clinical information from the HCC cohort, we screened seven proteins with prognostic significance, SMAD2, PTPN1, PCNA, MTHFD1L, MBOAT7, FABP5, and AGRN. Overall, we provided proteomic data of the DEN and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model and highlighted the important proteins and pathways in it, contributing to the rational application of this model in HCC research.
PXD044201	38580967	Plasma proteomic characterization of colorectal cancer patients with FOLFOX chemotherapy by integrated proteomics technology. 	Plasma Proteomic Characterization of Colorectal Cancer Patients with FOLFOX Chemotherapy	Human Plasma Proteome, PRM Validation, Random Forest, SISPROT	BACKGROUND: Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is a prevalent form of cancer, and the effectiveness of the main postoperative chemotherapy treatment, FOLFOX, varies among patients. In this study, we aimed to identify potential biomarkers for predicting the prognosis of CRC patients treated with FOLFOX through plasma proteomic characterization. METHODS: Using a fully integrated sample preparation technology SISPROT-based proteomics workflow, we achieved deep proteome coverage and trained a machine learning model from a discovery cohort of 90 CRC patients to differentiate FOLFOX-sensitive and FOLFOX-resistant patients. The model was then validated by targeted proteomics on an independent test cohort of 26 patients. RESULTS: We achieved deep proteome coverage of 831 protein groups in total and 536 protein groups in average for non-depleted plasma from CRC patients by using a Orbitrap Exploris 240 with moderate sensitivity. Our results revealed distinct molecular changes in FOLFOX-sensitive and FOLFOX-resistant patients. We confidently identified known prognostic biomarkers for colorectal cancer, such as S100A4, LGALS1, and FABP5. The classifier based on the biomarker panel demonstrated a promised AUC value of 0.908 with 93% accuracy. Additionally, we established a protein panel to predict FOLFOX effectiveness, and several proteins within the panel were validated using targeted proteomic methods. CONCLUSIONS: Our study sheds light on the pathways affected in CRC patients treated with FOLFOX chemotherapy and identifies potential biomarkers that could be valuable for prognosis prediction. Our findings showed the potential of mass spectrometry-based proteomics and machine learning as an unbiased and systematic approach for discovering biomarkers in CRC.
PXD042795	38582517	Menin Deficiency Induces Autism-Like Behaviors by Regulating Foxg1 Transcription and Participates in Foxg1-Related Encephalopathy. 	hippocampus LC-MS experiment from Men1-CcKO mice and the controls	LC-MS, hippocampus	FOXG1 syndrome is a developmental encephalopathy caused by FOXG1 (Forkhead box G1) mutations, resulting in high phenotypic variability. However, the upstream transcriptional regulation of Foxg1 expression remains unclear. This report demonstrates that both deficiency and overexpression of Men1 (protein: menin, a pathogenic gene of MEN1 syndrome known as multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1) lead to autism-like behaviors, such as social defects, increased repetitive behaviors, and cognitive impairments. Multifaceted transcriptome analyses revealed that Foxg1 signaling is predominantly altered in Men1 deficiency mice, through its regulation of the Alpha Thalassemia/Mental Retardation Syndrome X-Linked (Atrx) factor. Atrx recruits menin to bind to the transcriptional start region of Foxg1 and mediates the regulation of Foxg1 expression by H3K4me3 (Trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 4) modification. The deficits observed in menin deficient mice are rescued by the over-expression of Foxg1, leading to normalized spine growth and restoration of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. These findings suggest that menin may have a putative role in the maintenance of Foxg1 expression, highlighting menin signaling as a potential therapeutic target for Foxg1-related encephalopathy.
PXD042323	38582860	The secreted protein Amuc_1409 from Akkermansia muciniphila improves gut health through intestinal stem cell regulation. 	Akkermansia muciniphila secretome	Akkermansia muciniphila, secretome	Akkermansia muciniphila has received great attention because of its beneficial roles in gut health by regulating gut immunity, promoting intestinal epithelial development, and improving barrier integrity. However, A. muciniphila-derived functional molecules regulating gut health are not well understood. Microbiome-secreted proteins act as key arbitrators of host-microbiome crosstalk through interactions with host cells in the gut and are important for understanding host-microbiome relationships. Herein, we report the biological function of Amuc_1409, a previously uncharacterised A. muciniphila-secreted protein. Amuc_1409 increased intestinal stem cell (ISC) proliferation and regeneration in ex vivo intestinal organoids and in vivo models of radiation- or chemotherapeutic drug-induced intestinal injury and natural aging with male mice. Mechanistically, Amuc_1409 promoted E-cadherin/beta-catenin complex dissociation via interaction with E-cadherin, resulting in the activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Our results demonstrate that Amuc_1409 plays a crucial role in intestinal homeostasis by regulating ISC activity in an E-cadherin-dependent manner and is a promising biomolecule for improving and maintaining gut health.
PXD043322	38582895	Systematic HOIP interactome profiling reveals critical roles of linear ubiquitination in tissue homeostasis. 	Systematic discovery of linear ubiquitination mediated neo-protein-protein interactions across mouse tissues	Quantitative HOIP interactome profiles, mouse tissues	Linear ubiquitination catalyzed by HOIL-1-interacting protein (HOIP), the key component of the linear ubiquitination assembly complex, plays fundamental roles in tissue homeostasis by executing domain-specific regulatory functions. However, a proteome-wide analysis of the domain-specific interactome of HOIP across tissues is lacking. Here, we present a comprehensive mass spectrometry-based interactome profiling of four HOIP domains in nine mouse tissues. The interaction dataset provides a high-quality HOIP interactome resource with an average of approximately 90 interactors for each bait per tissue. HOIP tissue interactome presents a systematic understanding of linear ubiquitination functions in each tissue and also shows associations of tissue functions to genetic diseases. HOIP domain interactome characterizes a set of previously undefined linear ubiquitinated substrates and elucidates the cross-talk among HOIP domains in physiological and pathological processes. Moreover, we show that linear ubiquitination of Integrin-linked protein kinase (ILK) decreases focal adhesion formation and promotes the detachment of Shigella flexneri-infected cells. Meanwhile, Hoip deficiency decreases the linear ubiquitination of Smad ubiquitination regulatory factor 1 (SMURF1) and enhances its E3 activity, finally causing a reduced bone mass phenotype in mice. Overall, our work expands the knowledge of HOIP-interacting proteins and provides a platform for further discovery of linear ubiquitination functions in tissue homeostasis.
PXD039261	38582902	Gadd45g insufficiency drives the pathogenesis of myeloproliferative neoplasms. 	Proteins interact with GADD45g in c-kit+ BM cells of wild-type mice	GADD45g, c-kit+BM cells, proteins	Despite the identification of driver mutations leading to the initiation of myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs), the molecular pathogenesis of MPNs remains incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that growth arrest and DNA damage inducible gamma (GADD45g) is expressed at significantly lower levels in patients with MPNs, and JAK2V617F mutation and histone deacetylation contribute to its reduced expression. Downregulation of GADD45g plays a tumor-promoting role in human MPN cells. Gadd45g insufficiency in the murine hematopoietic system alone leads to significantly enhanced growth and self-renewal capacity of myeloid-biased hematopoietic stem cells, and the development of phenotypes resembling MPNs. Mechanistically, the pathogenic role of GADD45g insufficiency is mediated through a cascade of activations of RAC2, PAK1 and PI3K-AKT signaling pathways. These data characterize GADD45g deficiency as a novel pathogenic factor in MPNs.
PXD044069	38585136	Proteome of Personalized Tissue-Engineered Veins. 	The proteome of personalized tissue-engineered veins	ATMP, ECM, Tissue-engineering, personalized medicine, vascular diseases	Vascular diseases are the largest cause of death globally and impose a major global burden on healthcare. The gold standard for treating vascular diseases is the transplantation of autologous veins, if applicable. Alternative treatments still suffer from shortcomings, including low patency, lack of growth potential, the need for repeated intervention, and a substantial risk of developing infections. The use of a vascular ECM scaffold reconditioned with the patient's own cells has shown successful results in preclinical and clinical studies. In this study, we have compared the proteomes of personalized tissue-engineered veins of humans and pigs. By applying tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling LC/MS-MS, we have investigated the proteome of decellularized (DC) veins from humans and pigs and reconditioned (RC) DC veins produced through perfusion with the patient's whole blood in STEEN solution, applying the same technology as used in the preclinical studies. The results revealed high similarity between the proteomes of human and pig DC and RC veins, including the ECM texture after decellularization and reconditioning. In addition, functional enrichment analysis showed similarities in signaling pathways and biological processes involved in the immune system response. Furthermore, the classification of proteins involved in immune response activity that were detected in human and pig RC veins revealed proteins that evoke immunogenic responses, which may lead to graft rejection, thrombosis, and inflammation. However, the results from this study imply the initiation of wound healing rather than an immunogenic response, as both systems share the same processes, and no immunogenic response was reported in the preclinical and clinical studies. Finally, our study assessed the application of STEEN solution in tissue engineering and identified proteins that may be useful for the prediction of successful transplantations.
PXD050309	38585359	Serum biomarkers in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy: a proteomics-based analysis. 	Serum biomarkers in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy: a proteomics-based analysis	Antiepileptic drugs, Biomarkers, Drug-resistant epilepsy, Serum	Objective: To investigate the serum biomarkers in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy (DRE). Methods: A total of 9 DRE patients and 9 controls were enrolled. Serum from DRE patients was prospectively collected and analyzed for potential serum biomarkers using TMT18-labeled proteomics. After fine quality control, bioinformatics analysis was conducted to find differentially expressed proteins. Pathway enrichment analysis identified some biological features shared by differential proteins. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis was further performed to discover the core proteins. Results: A total of 117 serum differential proteins were found in our study, of which 44 were revised upwards and 73 downwards. The up-regulated proteins mainly include UGGT2, PDIA4, SEMG1, KIAA1191, CCT7 etc. and the down-regulated proteins mainly include ROR1, NIF3L1, ITIH4, CFP, COL11A2 etc. Pathway enrichment analysis identified that the upregulated proteins were mainly enriched in processes such as immune response, extracellular exosome, serine-type endopeptidase activity and complement and coagulation cascades, and the down-regulated proteins were enriched in signal transduction, extracellular exosome, zinc/calcium ion binding and metabolic pathways. PPI network analysis revealed that the core proteins nodes include PRDX6, CAT, PRDX2, SOD1, PARK7, GSR, TXN, ANXA1, HINT1, and S100A8 etc. Conclusion: The discovery of these differential proteins enriched our understanding of serum biomarkers in patients with DRE and potentially provides guidance for future targeted therapy.
PXD049336	38585873	Lysosomal storage disease proteo/lipidomic profiling using nMOST links ferritinophagy with mitochondrial iron deficiencies in cells lacking NPC2. 	Lysosomal storage disease proteo/lipidomic profiling using nMOST links ferritinophagy with mitochondrial iron deficiencies in cells lacking NPC2	Multiplexed TMT proteomics, OXPHOS, ferritinophagy, lysosomal storage disorders, mitochondrial function	Lysosomal storage diseases (LSDs) comprised ~50 monogenic diseases characterized by the accumulation of cellular material in lysosomes and associated defects in lysosomal function, but systematic molecular phenotyping is lacking. Here, we develop a nanoflow-based multi-omic single-shot technology (nMOST) workflow allowing simultaneously quantify HeLa cell proteomes and lipidomes from more than two dozen LSD mutants, revealing diverse molecular phenotypes. Defects in delivery of ferritin and its autophagic receptor NCOA4 to lysosomes (ferritinophagy) were pronounced in NPC2 (-/-) cells, which correlated with increased lyso-phosphatidylcholine species and multi-lamellar membrane structures visualized by cryo-electron-tomography. Ferritinophagy defects correlated with loss of mitochondrial cristae, MICOS-complex components, and electron transport chain complexes rich in iron-sulfur cluster proteins. Strikingly, mitochondrial defects were alleviated when iron was provided through the transferrin system. This resource reveals how defects in lysosomal function can impact mitochondrial homeostasis in trans and highlights nMOST as a discovery tool for illuminating molecular phenotypes across LSDs.
PXD050618	38585916	Acute multi-level response to defective de novo chromatin assembly in S-phase. 	Histone modifications during acute S-phase defects	DNA replication, cell cycle, chromatin assembly, epigenome stability, histone chaperones	Long-term perturbation of de novo chromatin assembly during DNA replication has profound effects on epigenome maintenance and cell fate. The early mechanistic origin of these defects is unknown. Here, we combine acute degradation of Chromatin Assembly Factor 1 (CAF-1), a key player in de novo chromatin assembly, with single-cell genomics, quantitative proteomics, and live-microscopy to uncover these initiating mechanisms in human cells. CAF-1 loss immediately slows down DNA replication speed and renders nascent DNA hyper-accessible. A rapid cellular response, distinct from canonical DNA damage signaling, is triggered and lowers histone mRNAs. As a result, histone variants usage and their modifications are altered, limiting transcriptional fidelity and delaying chromatin maturation within a single S-phase. This multi-level response induces a cell-cycle arrest after mitosis. Our work reveals the immediate consequences of defective de novo chromatin assembly during DNA replication, explaining how at later times the epigenome and cell fate can be altered.
PXD046159	38587186	ARID1A regulates DNA repair through chromatin organization and its deficiency triggers DNA damage-mediated anti-tumor immune response. 	ARID1A regulates chromatin organization and establishment of epigenetic marks for DSB repair and transcription silencing	ARID1A, DSB, HR, chromatin, epigenetics	AT-rich interaction domain protein 1A (ARID1A), a SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex subunit, is frequently mutated across various cancer entities. Loss of ARID1A leads to DNA repair defects. Here, we show that ARID1A plays epigenetic roles to promote both DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) repair pathways, non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR). ARID1A is accumulated at DSBs after DNA damage and regulates chromatin loops formation by recruiting RAD21 and CTCF to DSBs. Simultaneously, ARID1A facilitates transcription silencing at DSBs in transcriptionally active chromatin by recruiting HDAC1 and RSF1 to control the distribution of activating histone marks, chromatin accessibility, and eviction of RNAPII. ARID1A depletion resulted in enhanced accumulation of micronuclei, activation of cGAS-STING pathway, and an increased expression of immunomodulatory cytokines upon ionizing radiation. Furthermore, low ARID1A expression in cancer patients receiving radiotherapy was associated with higher infiltration of several immune cells. The high mutation rate of ARID1A in various cancer types highlights its clinical relevance as a promising biomarker that correlates with the level of immune regulatory cytokines and estimates the levels of tumor-infiltrating immune cells, which can predict the response to the combination of radio- and immunotherapy.
PXD050190	38587639	Kinesin KIF3A regulates meiotic progression and spindle assembly in oocyte meiosis. 	Screening of proteins related to mouse KIF3A protein by LC-MS.	ovary	Kinesin family member 3A (KIF3A) is a microtubule-oriented motor protein that belongs to the kinesin-2 family for regulating intracellular transport and microtubule movement. In this study, we characterized the critical roles of KIF3A during mouse oocyte meiosis. We found that KIF3A associated with microtubules during meiosis and depletion of KIF3A resulted in oocyte maturation defects. LC-MS data indicated that KIF3A associated with cell cycle regulation, cytoskeleton, mitochondrial function and intracellular transport-related molecules. Depletion of KIF3A activated the spindle assembly checkpoint, leading to metaphase I arrest of the first meiosis. In addition, KIF3A depletion caused aberrant spindle pole organization based on its association with KIFC1 to regulate expression and polar localization of NuMA and gamma-tubulin; and KIF3A knockdown also reduced microtubule stability due to the altered microtubule deacetylation by histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6). Exogenous Kif3a mRNA supplementation rescued the maturation defects caused by KIF3A depletion. Moreover, KIF3A was also essential for the distribution and function of mitochondria, Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticulum in oocytes. Conditional knockout of epithelial splicing regulatory protein 1 (ESRP1) disrupted the expression and localization of KIF3A in oocytes. Overall, our results suggest that KIF3A regulates cell cycle progression, spindle assembly and organelle distribution during mouse oocyte meiosis.
PXD040755	38588051	Nalpha-acetyltransferase NAA50 mediates plant immunity independent of the Nalpha-acetyltransferase A complex. 	The Nalpha-acetyltransferase NAA50 mediates plant immunity independent of the NatA complex	N-terminal acetylation, NAA50, NatA, pathogen resistance, protein turnover	In humans and plants, 40% of the proteome is co-translationally acetylated at the N-terminus by a single Nalpha-acetyltransferase (Nat) termed NatA. The core NatA complex is comprised of the catalytic subunit Nalpha- acetyltransferase 10 (NAA10) and the ribosome-anchoring subunit NAA15. The regulatory subunit Huntingtin Yeast Partner K (HYPK) and the acetyltransferase NAA50 join this complex in humans. Even though both are conserved in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), only AtHYPK is known to interact with AtNatA. Here we uncover the AtNAA50 interactome and provide evidence for the association of AtNAA50 with NatA at ribosomes. In agreement with the latter, a split-luciferase approach demonstrated close proximity of AtNAA50 and AtNatA in planta. Despite their interaction, AtNatA/HYPK and AtNAA50 exerted different functions in vivo. Unlike NatA/HYPK, AtNAA50 did not modulate drought-tolerance or promote protein stability. Instead, transcriptome and proteome analyses of a novel AtNAA50-depleted mutant (amiNAA50) implied that AtNAA50 negatively regulates plant immunity. Indeed, amiNAA50 plants exhibited enhanced resistance to oomycetes and bacterial pathogens. In contrast to what was observed in NatA-depleted mutants, this resistance was independent of an accumulation of salicylic acid prior to pathogen exposure. Our study dissects the in vivo function of the NatA interactors HYPK and NAA50 and uncovers NatA-independent roles for NAA50 in plants.
PXD044245	38588410	PVRL2 Suppresses Antitumor Immunity through PVRIG- and TIGIT-independent Pathways. 	PVRL2 suppresses anti-tumor immunity through PVRIG- and TIGIT-independent pathways	cancer, immunology	Poliovirus receptor-related 2 (PVRL2, also known as nectin-2 or CD112) is believed to act as an immune checkpoint protein in cancer; however, most insight into its role is inferred from studies on its known receptor, poliovirus receptor (PVR)-related immunoglobulin domain protein (PVRIG, also known as CD112R). Here, we study PVRL2 itself. PVRL2 levels were found to be high in tumor cells and tumor-derived exosomes. Deletion of PVRL2 in multiple syngeneic mouse models of cancer showed a dramatic reduction in tumor growth that was immune dependent. This effect was even greater than that seen with deletion of PD-L1. PVRL2 was shown to function by suppressing CD8+ T and natural killer cells in the tumor microenvironment. The loss of PVRL2 suppressed tumor growth even in the absence of PVRIG. In contrast, PVRIG loss showed no additive effect in the absence of PVRL2. T-cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) blockade combined with PVRL2 deletion resulted in a near complete block in tumor growth. This effect was not recapitulated by the combined deletion of PVRL2 with its paralog, PVR, which is the ligand for TIGIT. These data uncover PVRL2 as a distinct inhibitor of the antitumor immune response with functions beyond that of its known receptor PVRIG. Moreover, the data provide a strong rationale for combinatorial targeting of PVRL2 and TIGIT for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD042888	38589397	A chemical proteomics approach for global mapping of functional lysines on cell surface of living cell. 	A Chemical Proteomics Approach for Global Mapping of Functional Lysines on Cell Surface of Living Cell	ABPP, cell surface, chemical proteomics, living cell labeling, lysine reactivity	Cell surface proteins are responsible for many crucial physiological roles, and they are also the major category of drug targets as the majority of therapeutics target membrane proteins on the surface of cells to alter cellular signaling. Despite its great significance, ligand discovery against membrane proteins has posed a great challenge mainly due to the special property of their natural habitat. Here, we design a new chemical proteomic probe OPA-S-S-alkyne that can efficiently and selectively target the lysines exposed on the cell surface and develop a chemical proteomics strategy for global analysis of surface functionality (GASF) in living cells. In total, we quantified 2639 cell surface lysines in Hela cell and several hundred residues with high reactivity were discovered, which represents the largest dataset of surface functional lysine sites to date. We discovered and validated that hyper-reactive lysine residues K382 on tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor 2 (ROR2) and K285 on Endoglin (ENG/CD105) are at the protein interaction interface in co-crystal structures of protein complexes, emphasizing the broad potential functional consequences of cell surface lysines and GASF strategy is highly desirable for discovering new active and ligandable sites that can be functionally interrogated for drug discovery.
PXD023394	38589732	Rhes, a striatal enriched protein, regulates post-translational small-ubiquitin-like-modifier (SUMO) modification of nuclear proteins and alters gene expression. 	Rhes, a striatal enriched protein regulates post-translational Small-Ubiquitin like-Modifier (SUMO) Modification of nuclear proteins and alters gene expression	Medium spiny neurons, SUMO E3-ligase, brain, differentiation, gene regulation, morphology, perinuclear membrane, signaling	Rhes (Ras homolog enriched in the striatum), a multifunctional protein that regulates striatal functions associated with motor behaviors and neurological diseases, can shuttle from cell to cell via the formation of tunneling-like nanotubes (TNTs). However, the mechanisms by which Rhes mediates diverse functions remain unclear. Rhes is a small GTPase family member which contains a unique C-terminal Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO) E3-like domain that promotes SUMO post-translational modification of proteins (SUMOylation) by promoting "cross-SUMOylation" of the SUMO enzyme SUMO E1 (Aos1/Uba2) and SUMO E2 ligase (Ubc-9). Nevertheless, the identity of the SUMO substrates of Rhes remains largely unknown. Here, by combining high throughput interactome and SUMO proteomics, we report that Rhes regulates the SUMOylation of nuclear proteins that are involved in the regulation of gene expression. Rhes increased the SUMOylation of histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and histone 2B, while decreasing SUMOylation of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein M (HNRNPM), protein polybromo-1 (PBRM1) and E3 SUMO-protein ligase (PIASy). We also found that Rhes itself is SUMOylated at 6 different lysine residues (K32, K110, K114, K120, K124, and K245). Furthermore, Rhes regulated the expression of genes involved in cellular morphogenesis and differentiation in the striatum, in a SUMO-dependent manner. Our findings thus provide evidence for a previously undescribed role for Rhes in regulating the SUMOylation of nuclear targets and in orchestrating striatal gene expression via SUMOylation.
PXD044587	38589879	Fasting upregulates the monocarboxylate transporter MCT1 at the rat blood-brain barrier through PPAR delta activation. 	Fasting upregulates the monocarboxylate transporter Mct1 at the rat blood-brain barrier through Ppar d activation	Blood-Brain Barrier, Endothelial cells, Fasting, Mct1, Ppar d	BACKGROUND: The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is pivotal for the maintenance of brain homeostasis and it strictly regulates the cerebral transport of a wide range of endogenous compounds and drugs. While fasting is increasingly recognized as a potential therapeutic intervention in neurology and psychiatry, its impact upon the BBB has not been studied. This study was designed to assess the global impact of fasting upon the repertoire of BBB transporters. METHODS: We used a combination of in vivo and in vitro experiments to assess the response of the brain endothelium in male rats that were fed ad libitum or fasted for one to three days. Brain endothelial cells were acutely purified and transcriptionaly profiled using RNA-Seq. Isolated brain microvessels were used to assess the protein expression of selected BBB transporters through western blot. The molecular mechanisms involved in the adaptation to fasting were investigated in primary cultured rat brain endothelial cells. MCT1 activity was probed by in situ brain perfusion. RESULTS: Fasting did not change the expression of the main drug efflux ATP-binding cassette transporters or P-glycoprotein activity at the BBB but modulated a restrictive set of solute carrier transporters. These included the ketone bodies transporter MCT1, which is pivotal for the brain adaptation to fasting. Our findings in vivo suggested that PPAR delta, a major lipid sensor, was selectively activated in brain endothelial cells in response to fasting. This was confirmed in vitro where pharmacological agonists and free fatty acids selectively activated PPAR delta, resulting in the upregulation of MCT1 expression. Moreover, dosing rats with a specific PPAR delta antagonist blocked the upregulation of MCT1 expression and activity induced by fasting. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, our study shows that fasting affects a selected set of BBB transporters which does not include the main drug efflux transporters. Moreover, we describe a previously unknown selective adaptive response of the brain vasculature to fasting which involves PPAR delta and is responsible for the up-regulation of MCT1 expression and activity. Our study opens new perspectives for the metabolic manipulation of the BBB in the healthy or diseased brain.
PXD046494	38590172	N-glycoproteomic analyses of human intestinal enteroids, varying in histo-blood group geno- and phenotypes, reveal a wide repertoire of fucosylated glycoproteins. 	N-glycoproteomic analyses of human intestinal enteroids, varying in histo-blood group geno- and phenotypes, reveal a wide repertoire of fucosylated glycoproteins	: glycoproteomics, fucosyltransferase, higher-energy collision dissociation, histo-blood group antigens, host-pathogen interaction, human intestinal enteroids, human norovirus, intestinal epithelium	Human noroviruses, globally the main cause of viral gastroenteritis, show strain specific affinity for histo-blood group antigens (HBGA) and can successfully be propagated ex vivo in human intestinal enteroids (HIEs). HIEs established from jejunal stem cells of individuals with different ABO, Lewis and secretor geno- and phenotypes, show varying susceptibility to such infections. Using bottom-up glycoproteomic approaches we have defined and compared the N-linked glycans of glycoproteins of seven jejunal HIEs. Membrane proteins were extracted, trypsin digested, and glycopeptides enriched by hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography and analyzed by nanoLC-MS/MS. The Byonic software was used for glycopeptide identification followed by hands-on verifications and interpretations. Glycan structures and attachment sites were identified from MS 2 spectra obtained by higher-energy collision dissociation through analysis of diagnostic saccharide oxonium ions (B-ions), stepwise glycosidic fragmentation of the glycans (Y-ions), and peptide sequence ions (b- and y-ions). Altogether 694 unique glycopeptides from 93 glycoproteins were identified. The N-glycans encompassed pauci- and oligomannose, hybrid- and complex-type structures. Notably, polyfucosylated HBGA-containing glycopeptides of the four glycoproteins tetraspanin-8, carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 5, sucrose-isomaltase and aminopeptidase N were especially prominent and were characterized in detail and related to donor ABO, Lewis and secretor types of each HIE. Virtually no sialylated N-glycans were identified for these glycoproteins suggesting that terminal sialylation was infrequent compared to fucosylation and HBGA biosynthesis. This approach gives unique site-specific information on the structural complexity of N-linked glycans of glycoproteins of human HIEs and provides a platform for future studies on the role of host glycoproteins in gastrointestinal infectious diseases.
PXD036533	38590397	Multi-omics data-based analysis characterizes molecular alterations of the vesicle genes in human colorectal cancer. 	Multi-omics data-based analysis characterizes molecular alterations of the vesicle genes in human colorectal cancer	CRC, Multi-omics, Vesicular genes (VGs)	The role of vesicular genes in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC) is crucial. Analyzing alterations in these genes at multi-omics can aid in understanding the molecular pathways behind colorectal carcinogenesis and identifying potential treatment targets. However, studies on the overall alteration of vesicular genes in CRC are still lacking. In this study, we aimed to investigate the relationship between vesicle genetic alterations and CRC progression. To achieve this, we analyzed molecular alterations in CRC vesicle genes at eight levels, including mRNA, protein, and epigenetic levels. Additionally, we examined CRC overall survival-related genes that were obtained from a public database. Our analysis of chromatin structural variants, DNA methylation, chromatin accessibility, and proteins (including phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and malonylation), along with RNA-seq data from the TCGA database, revealed multiple levels of alterations in CRC vesicle genes in the collected tissue samples. We progressively examined the alterations of vesicle genes in mRNA and protein levels in CRC and discovered the hub genes. Further investigation identified the probable essential transcription factors. This study contributes to a thorough knowledge of the connection between vesicle gene alterations at multiple levels and the development of CRC and offers a theoretical framework for the identification of novel treatment targets.
PXD030093	38590437	Influenza A virus replicates productively in primary human kidney cells and induces factors and mechanisms related to regulated cell death and renal pathology observed in virus-infected patients. 	Influenza A virus replication in primary human kidney cells  reveals regulated cell death as a potential factor for acute  kidney injury in influenza	Influenza A, acute kidney injury, regulated cell death	Introduction: Influenza A virus (IAV) infection can cause the often-lethal acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) of the lung. Concomitantly, acute kidney injury (AKI) is frequently noticed during IAV infection, correlating with an increased mortality. The aim of this study was to elucidate the interaction of IAV with human kidney cells and, thereby, to assess the mechanisms underlying IAV-mediated AKI. Methods: To investigate IAV effects on nephron cells we performed infectivity assays with human IAV, as well as with human isolates of either low or highly pathogenic avian IAV. Also, transcriptome and proteome analysis of IAV-infected primary human distal tubular kidney cells (DTC) was performed. Furthermore, the DTC transcriptome was compared to existing transcriptomic data from IAV-infected lung and trachea cells. Results: We demonstrate productive replication of all tested IAV strains on primary and immortalized nephron cells. Comparison of our transcriptome and proteome analysis of H1N1-type IAV-infected human primary distal tubular cells (DTC) with existing data from H1N1-type IAV-infected lung and primary trachea cells revealed enrichment of specific factors responsible for regulated cell death in primary DTC, which could be targeted by specific inhibitors. Discussion: IAV not only infects, but also productively replicates on different human nephron cells. Importantly, multi-omics analysis revealed regulated cell death as potential contributing factor for the clinically observed kidney pathology in influenza.
PXD047074	38590751	Proteomics reveals the significance of vacuole Pi transporter in the adaptability of Brassica napus to Pi deprivation. 	Proteomics reveals the significance of vacuole Pi transporter in the adaptability of Brassica napus to Pi deprivation	1a, BnPHT5, Brassica napus, P homeostasis, vacuolar Pi transporter	Vacuolar Pi transporters (VPTs) have recently been identified as important regulators of cellular Pi status in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. In the oil crop Brassica napus, BnA09PHT5;1a and BnC09PHT5;1a are two homologs of AtPHT5;1, the vacuolar Pi influx transporter in Arabidopsis. Here, we show that Pi deficiency induces the transcription of both homologs of PHT5;1a genes in B. napus leaves. Brassica PHT5;1a double mutants (DM) had smaller shoots and higher cellular Pi concentrations than wild-type (WT, Westar 10), suggesting the potential role of BnPHT5;1a in modulating cellular Pi status in B. napus. A proteomic analysis was performed to estimate the role of BnPHT5;1a in Pi fluctuation. Results show that Pi deprivation disturbs the abundance of proteins in the physiological processes involved in carbohydrate metabolism, response to stimulus and stress in B. napus, while disruption of BnPHT5;1a genes may exacerbate these processes. Besides, the processes of cell redox homeostasis, lipid metabolic and proton transmembrane transport are supposed to be unbalanced in BnPHT5;1a DM under the -Pi condition. Noteworthy, disruption of BnPHT5;1a genes severely alters the abundance of proteins related to ATP biosynthesis, and proton/inorganic cation transmembrane under normal Pi condition, which might contribute to B. napus growth limitations. Additionally, seven new protein markers of Pi homeostasis are identified in B. napus. Taken together, this study characterizes the important regulatory role of BnPHT5;1a genes as vacuolar Pi influx transporters in Pi homeostasis in B. napus.
PXD037707	38592509	Melanin depletion affects Aspergillus flavus conidial surface proteins, architecture, and virulence. 	Depletion of melanin exposes Aspergillus flavus conidial surface proteins and alters the surface architecture and virulence.	Melanin, Melanized conidia, Non-melanized conidia, and Surface protein	Melanin is an Aspergillus flavus cell wall component that provides chemical and physical protection to the organism. However, the molecular and biological mechanisms modulating melanin-mediated host-pathogen interaction in A. flavus keratitis are not well understood. This work aimed to compare the morphology, surface proteome profile, and virulence of melanized conidia (MC) and non-melanized conidia (NMC) of A. flavus. Kojic acid treatment inhibited melanin synthesis in A. flavus, and the conidial surface protein profile was significantly different in kojic acid-treated non-melanized conidia. Several cell wall-associated proteins and proteins responsible for oxidative stress, carbohydrate, and chitin metabolic pathways were found only in the formic acid extracts of NMC. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis showed the conidial surface morphology difference between the NMC and MC, indicating the role of melanin in the structural integrity of the conidial cell wall. The levels of calcofluor white staining efficiency were different, but there was no microscopic morphology difference in lactophenol cotton blue staining between MC and NMC. Evaluation of the virulence of MC and NMC in the Galleria mellonella model showed NMC was less virulent compared to MC. Our findings showed that the integrity of the conidial surface is controlled by the melanin layer. The alteration in the surface protein profile indicated that many surface proteins are masked by the melanin layer, and hence, melanin can modulate the host response by preventing the exposure of fungal proteins to the host immune defense system. The G. mellonella virulence assay also confirmed that the NMC were susceptible to host defense as in other Aspergillus pathogens. KEY POINTS: * l-DOPA melanin production was inhibited in A. flavus isolates by kojic acid, and for the first time, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis revealed morphological differences between MC and NMC of A. flavus strains * Proteome profile of non-melanized conidia showed more conidial surface proteins and these proteins were mainly involved in the virulence, oxidative stress, and metabolism pathways * Non-melanized conidia of A. flavus strains were shown to be less virulent than melanised conidia in an in vivo virulence experiment with the G. melonella model.
PXD046839	38592918	Optimizing ChIRP-MS for Comprehensive Profiling of RNA-Protein Interactions in Arabidopsis thaliana: A Telomerase RNA Case Study. 	Optimization of an RNA-centric approach searching for RNA-interacting proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana	ChIRP-MS, RNA, RNA-centric methods, RNA-protein interactions, telomerase, telomerase RNA	The current repertoire of methods available for studying RNA-protein interactions in plants is somewhat limited. Employing an RNA-centric approach, particularly with less abundant RNAs, presents various challenges. Many of the existing methods were initially designed for different model systems, with their application in plants receiving limited attention thus far. The Comprehensive Identification of RNA-Binding Proteins by Mass Spectrometry (ChIRP-MS) technique, initially developed for mammalian cells, has been adapted in this study for application in Arabidopsis thaliana. The procedures have been meticulously modified and optimized for telomerase RNA, a notable example of a low-abundance RNA recently identified. Following these optimization steps, ChIRP-MS can serve as an effective screening method for identifying candidate proteins interacting with any target RNA of interest.
PXD044924	38594449	Comprehensive insights into the impact of bacterial indole-3-acetic acid on sensory preferences in Drosophila melanogaster. 	Gut bacterial phytohormone modulates olfactory sensing, chemotaxis and mortality in fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster): a new dimension to gut-brain axis	Data Independent Acquisition, Drosophila Melanogaster, Quantitative proteomics, olfactory sensing, phytohormone	Several bacteria of environmental and clinical origins, including some human-associated strains secrete a cross-kingdom signaling molecule indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). IAA is a tryptophan (trp) derivative mainly known for regulating plant growth and development as a hormone. However, the nutritional sources that boost IAA secretion in bacteria and the impact of secreted IAA on non-plant eukaryotic hosts remained less explored. Here, we demonstrate significant trp-dependent IAA production in Pseudomonas juntendi NEEL19 when provided with ethanol as a carbon source in liquid cultures. IAA was further characterized to modulate the odor discrimination, motility and survivability in Drosophila melanogaster. A detailed analysis of IAA-fed fly brain proteome using high-resolution mass spectrometry showed significant (fold change, +/- 2; p <= 0.05) alteration in the proteins governing neuromuscular features, audio-visual perception and energy metabolism as compared to IAA-unfed controls. Sex-wise variations in differentially regulated proteins were witnessed despite having similar visible changes in chemo perception and psychomotor responses in IAA-fed flies. This study not only revealed ethanol-specific enhancement in trp-dependent IAA production in P. juntendi, but also showed marked behavioral alterations in flies for which variations in an array of proteins governing odor discrimination, psychomotor responses, and energy metabolism are held responsible. Our study provided novel insights into disruptive attributes of bacterial IAA that can potentially influence the eukaryotic gut-brain axis having broad environmental and clinical implications.
PXD050049	38594674	Proteomic studies of VEGFR2 in human placentas reveal protein associations with preeclampsia, diabetes, gravidity, and labor. 	Proteomic studies of human placentas reveal partnerships associated with preeclampsia, diabetes, gravidity, and labor	Hofbauer cells, MDMX, Oxytocin receptor, PICALM, Placenta, TRIM21, VEGFR2	VEGFR2 (Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2) is a central regulator of placental angiogenesis. The study of the VEGFR2 proteome of chorionic villi at term revealed its partners MDMX (Double minute 4 protein) and PICALM (Phosphatidylinositol-binding clathrin assembly protein). Subsequently, the oxytocin receptor (OT-R) and vasopressin V1aR receptor were detected in MDMX and PICALM immunoprecipitations. Immunogold electron microscopy showed VEGFR2 on endothelial cell (EC) nuclei, mitochondria, and Hofbauer cells (HC), tissue-resident macrophages of the placenta. MDMX, PICALM, and V1aR were located on EC plasma membranes, nuclei, and HC nuclei. Unexpectedly, PICALM and OT-R were detected on EC projections into the fetal lumen and OT-R on 20-150 nm clusters therein, prompting the hypothesis that placental exosomes transport OT-R to the fetus and across the blood-brain barrier. Insights on gestational complications were gained by univariable and multivariable regression analyses associating preeclampsia with lower MDMX protein levels in membrane extracts of chorionic villi, and lower MDMX, PICALM, OT-R, and V1aR with spontaneous vaginal deliveries compared to cesarean deliveries before the onset of labor. We found select associations between higher MDMX, PICALM, OT-R protein levels and either gravidity, diabetes, BMI, maternal age, or neonatal weight, and correlations only between PICALM-OT-R (p < 2.7 x 10(-8)), PICALM-V1aR (p < 0.006), and OT-R-V1aR (p < 0.001). These results offer for exploration new partnerships in metabolic networks, tissue-resident immunity, and labor, notably for HC that predominantly express MDMX.
PXD043062	38594816	Analysis of Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells from Thoracic Aortic Aneurysms Reveals DNA Damage and Cell Cycle Arrest as Hallmarks in Bicuspid Aortic Valve Patients. 	Aortic smooth muscle cells in bicuspid valve patients	aortic aneurysm, bicuspid aortic valve, cardiovascular disease, vascular smooth muscle cells	Thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) is mainly sporadic and with higher incidence in the presence of a bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) for unknown reasons. The lack of drug therapy to delay TAA progression lies in the limited knowledge of pathophysiology. We aimed to identify the molecular hallmarks that differentiate the aortic dilatation associated with BAV and tricuspid aortic valve (TAV). Aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) isolated from sporadic TAA patients with BAV or TAV were analyzed by mass spectrometry. DNA oxidative damage assay and cell cycle profiling were performed in three independent cohorts supporting proteomics data. The alteration of secreted proteins was confirmed in plasma. Stress phenotype, oxidative stress, and enhanced DNA damage response (increased S-phase arrest and apoptosis) were found in BAV-TAA patients. The increased levels of plasma C1QTNF5, LAMA2, THSB3, and FAP confirm the enhanced stress in BAV-TAA. Plasma FAP and BGN point to an increased inflammatory condition in TAV. The arterial wall of BAV patients shows a limited capacity to counteract drivers of sporadic TAA. The molecular pathways identified support the need of differential molecular diagnosis and therapeutic approaches for BAV and TAV patients, showing specific markers in plasma which may serve to monitor therapy efficacy.
PXD050629	38595995	Towards optimized tissue regeneration: a new 3D printable bioink of alginate/cellulose hydrogel loaded with thrombocyte concentrate. 	Towards optimized tissue regeneration: A new 3D printable bioink of alginate/cellulose hydrogel loaded with thrombocyte concentrate	Additive manufacturing, Bioprinting, Hydrogel, Platelet rich fibrin, reconstruction	Introduction: Autologous platelet concentrate (APC) are pro-angiogenic and can promote wound healing and tissue repair, also in combination with other biomaterials. However, challenging defect situations remain demanding. 3D bioprinting of an APC based bioink encapsulated in a hydrogel could overcome this limitation with enhanced physio-mechanical interface, growth factor retention/secretion and defect-personalized shape to ultimately enhance regeneration. Methods: This study used extrusion-based bioprinting to create a novel bioink of alginate/cellulose hydrogel loaded with thrombocyte concentrate. Chemico-physical testing exhibited an amorphous structure characterized by high shape fidelity. Cytotoxicity assay and incubation of human osteogenic sarcoma cells (SaOs2) exposed excellent biocompatibility. enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis confirmed pro-angiogenic growth factor release of the printed constructs, and co-incubation with HUVECS displayed proper cell viability and proliferation. Chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay explored the pro-angiogenic potential of the prints in vivo. Detailed proteome and secretome analysis revealed a substantial amount and homologous presence of pro-angiogenic proteins in the 3D construct. Results: This study demonstrated a 3D bioprinting approach to fabricate a novel bioink of alginate/cellulose hydrogel loaded with thrombocyte concentrate with high shape fidelity, biocompatibility, and substantial pro-angiogenic properties. Conclusion: This approach may be suitable for challenging physiological and anatomical defect situations when translated into clinical use.
PXD050379	38596379	Identification of a novel xanthan-binding module of a multi-modular Cohnella sp. xanthanase. 	Identification of a novel xanthan-binding module of a multi-modular Cohnella sp. xanthanase	CBM66, Cohnella, mobility shift, xanthan, xanthan-binding module, xanthanase	A new strain of xanthan-degrading bacteria identified as Cohnella sp. has been isolated from a xanthan thickener for food production. The strain was able to utilize xanthan as the only carbon source and to reduce the viscosity of xanthan-containing medium during cultivation. Comparative analysis of the secretomes of Cohnella sp. after growth on different media led to the identification of a xanthanase designated as CspXan9, which was isolated after recombinant production in Escherichia coli. CspXan9 could efficiently degrade the beta-1,4-glucan backbone of xanthan after previous removal of pyruvylated mannose residues from the ends of the native xanthan side chains by xanthan lyase treatment (XLT-xanthan). Compared with xanthanase from Paenibacillus nanensis, xanthanase CspXan9 had a different module composition at the N- and C-terminal ends. The main putative oligosaccharides released from XLT-xanthan by CspXan9 cleavage were tetrasaccharides and octasaccharides. To explore the functions of the N- and C-terminal regions of the enzyme, truncated variants lacking some of the non-catalytic modules (CspXan9-C, CspXan9-N, CspXan9-C-N) were produced. Enzyme assays with the purified deletion derivatives, which all contained the catalytic glycoside hydrolase family 9 (GH9) module, demonstrated substantially reduced specific activity on XLT-xanthan of CspXan9-C-N compared with full-length CspXan9. The C-terminal module of CspXan9 was found to represent a novel carbohydrate-binding module of family CBM66 with binding affinity for XLT-xanthan, as was shown by native affinity polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of various polysaccharides. The only previously known binding function of a CBM66 member is exo-type binding to the non-reducing fructose ends of the beta-fructan polysaccharides inulin and levan.
PXD023222	38596707	Tissue-Wide Effects Override Cell-Intrinsic Gene Function in Radial Neuron Migration. 	Cdk5r1_KO_TMT-10plex_brain_cell-autonomous_proteomics	Brain, FACS sorted, Mus musculus	The mammalian neocortex is composed of diverse neuronal and glial cell classes that broadly arrange in six distinct laminae. Cortical layers emerge during development and defects in the developmental programs that orchestrate cortical lamination are associated with neurodevelopmental diseases. The developmental principle of cortical layer formation depends on concerted radial projection neuron migration, from their birthplace to their final target position. Radial migration occurs in defined sequential steps, regulated by a large array of signaling pathways. However, based on genetic loss-of-function experiments, most studies have thus far focused on the role of cell-autonomous gene function. Yet, cortical neuron migration in situ is a complex process and migrating neurons traverse along diverse cellular compartments and environments. The role of tissue-wide properties and genetic state in radial neuron migration is however not clear. Here we utilized mosaic analysis with double markers (MADM) technology to either sparsely or globally delete gene function, followed by quantitative single-cell phenotyping. The MADM-based gene ablation paradigms in combination with computational modeling demonstrated that global tissue-wide effects predominate cell-autonomous gene function albeit in a gene-specific manner. Our results thus suggest that the genetic landscape in a tissue critically affects the overall migration phenotype of individual cortical projection neurons. In a broader context, our findings imply that global tissue-wide effects represent an essential component of the underlying etiology associated with focal malformations of cortical development in particular, and neurological diseases in general.
PXD048374	38599017	Specificity and dynamics of H2O2 detoxification by the cytosolic redox regulatory network as revealed by in vitro reconstitution. 	Specificity and dynamics of H2O2 detoxification by the cytosolic redox regulatory network as revealed by in vitro reconstitution	Glutathione peroxidase, hydrogen peroxide, isotope labeling, peroxiredoxin, reactive oxygen species, thioredoxin	The thiol redox state is a decisive functional characteristic of proteins in cell biology. Plasmatic cell compartments maintain a thiol-based redox regulatory network linked to the glutathione/glutathione disulfide couple (GSH/GSSG) and the NAD(P)H system. The basic network constituents are known and in vivo cell imaging with gene-encoded probes have revealed insight into the dynamics of the [GSH](2)/[GSSG] redox potential, cellular H2O2 and NAD(P)H+H(+) amounts in dependence on metabolic and environmental cues. Less understood is the contribution and interaction of the network components, also because of compensatory reactions in genetic approaches. Reconstituting the cytosolic network of Arabidopsis thaliana in vitro from fifteen recombinant proteins at in vivo concentrations, namely glutathione peroxidase-like (GPXL), peroxiredoxins (PRX), glutaredoxins (GRX), thioredoxins, NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase A and glutathione reductase and applying Grx1-roGFP2 or roGFP2-Orp1 as dynamic sensors, allowed for monitoring the response to a single H2O2 pulse. The major change in thiol oxidation as quantified by mass spectrometry-based proteomics occurred in relevant peptides of GPXL, and to a lesser extent of PRX, while other Cys-containing peptides only showed small changes in their redox state and protection. Titration of ascorbate peroxidase (APX) into the system together with dehydroascorbate reductase lowered the oxidation of the fluorescent sensors in the network but was unable to suppress it. The results demonstrate the power of the network to detoxify H2O2, the partially independent branches of electron flow with significance for specific cell signaling and the importance of APX to modulate the signaling without suppressing it and shifting the burden to glutathione oxidation.
PXD048730	38600097	Integrated proteomics reveals autophagy landscape and an autophagy receptor controlling PKA-RI complex homeostasis in neurons. 	Integrated proteomics reveals autophagy degradation landscape in neurons and receptors regulating neuronal activity	autophagy degradation, integrated Proteomics, neuron, tandem mass tag	Autophagy is a conserved, catabolic process essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis. Malfunctional autophagy contributes to neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases. However, the exact role and targets of autophagy in human neurons remain elusive. Here we report a systematic investigation of neuronal autophagy targets through integrated proteomics. Deep proteomic profiling of multiple autophagy-deficient lines of human induced neurons, mouse brains, and brain LC3-interactome reveals roles of neuronal autophagy in targeting proteins of multiple cellular organelles/pathways, including endoplasmic reticulum (ER), mitochondria, endosome, Golgi apparatus, synaptic vesicle (SV) for degradation. By combining phosphoproteomics and functional analysis in human and mouse neurons, we uncovered a function of neuronal autophagy in controlling cAMP-PKA and c-FOS-mediated neuronal activity through selective degradation of the protein kinase A - cAMP-binding regulatory (R)-subunit I (PKA-RI) complex. Lack of AKAP11 causes accumulation of the PKA-RI complex in the soma and neurites, demonstrating a constant clearance of PKA-RI complex through AKAP11-mediated degradation in neurons. Our study thus reveals the landscape of autophagy degradation in human neurons and identifies a physiological function of autophagy in controlling homeostasis of PKA-RI complex and specific PKA activity in neurons.
PXD043994	38600241	The Crk4-Cyc4 complex regulates G2/M transition in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Toxoplasma gondii Cyclin-4 Interactome	Cyclin-4, Toxoplasma gondi	A versatile division of apicomplexan parasites and a dearth of conserved regulators have hindered the progress of apicomplexan cell cycle studies. While most apicomplexans divide in a multinuclear fashion, Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites divide in the traditional binary mode. We previously identified five Toxoplasma CDK-related kinases (Crk). Here, we investigated TgCrk4 and its cyclin partner TgCyc4. We demonstrated that TgCrk4 regulates conventional G2 phase processes, such as repression of chromosome rereplication and centrosome reduplication, and acts upstream of the spindle assembly checkpoint. The spatial TgCyc4 dynamics supported the TgCrk4-TgCyc4 complex role in the coordination of chromosome and centrosome cycles. We also identified a dominant TgCrk4-TgCyc4 complex interactor, TgiRD1 protein, related to DNA replication licensing factor CDT1 but played no role in licensing DNA replication in the G1 phase. Our results showed that TgiRD1 also plays a role in controlling chromosome and centrosome reduplication. Global phosphoproteome analyses identified TgCrk4 substrates, including TgORC4, TgCdc20, TgGCP2, and TgPP2ACA. Importantly, the phylogenetic and structural studies suggest the Crk4-Cyc4 complex is limited to a minor group of the binary dividing apicomplexans.
PXD043658	38600345	The phosphatase inhibitor LB-100 creates neoantigens in colon cancer cells through perturbation of mRNA splicing. 	PP2A inhibition instructs spliceosome phosphorylation patterns to create splicing vulnerability in colon adenocarcinoma	LB-100, PP2A inhibition, alternative splicing, colon adenocarcinoma, phosphorylation	Perturbation of protein phosphorylation represents an attractive approach to cancer treatment. Besides kinase inhibitors, protein phosphatase inhibitors have been shown to have anti-cancer activity. A prime example is the small molecule LB-100, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases 2A/5 (PP2A/PP5), enzymes that affect cellular physiology. LB-100 has proven effective in pre-clinical models in combination with immunotherapy, but the molecular underpinnings of this synergy remain understood poorly. We report here a sensitivity of the mRNA splicing machinery to phosphorylation changes in response to LB-100 in colorectal adenocarcinoma. We observe enrichment for differentially phosphorylated sites within cancer-critical splicing nodes of U2 snRNP, SRSF and hnRNP proteins. Altered phosphorylation endows LB-100-treated colorectal adenocarcinoma cells with differential splicing patterns. In PP2A-inhibited cells, over 1000 events of exon skipping and intron retention affect regulators of genomic integrity. Finally, we show that LB-100-evoked alternative splicing leads to neoantigens that are presented by MHC class 1 at the cell surface. Our findings provide a potential explanation for the pre-clinical and clinical observations that LB-100 sensitizes cancer cells to immune checkpoint blockade.
PXD040548	38600522	ATG7(2) Interacts With Metabolic Proteins and Regulates Central Energy Metabolism. 	ATG7(2) Interacts With Metabolic Proteins and Regulates Central Energy Metabolism	APMS	Macroautophagy/autophagy is an essential catabolic process that targets a wide variety of cellular components including proteins, organelles, and pathogens. ATG7, a protein involved in the autophagy process, plays a crucial role in maintaining cellular homeostasis and can contribute to the development of diseases such as cancer. ATG7 initiates autophagy by facilitating the lipidation of the ATG8 proteins in the growing autophagosome membrane. The noncanonical isoform ATG7(2) is unable to perform ATG8 lipidation; however, its cellular regulation and function are unknown. Here, we uncovered a distinct regulation and function of ATG7(2) in contrast with ATG7(1), the canonical isoform. First, affinity-purification mass spectrometry analysis revealed that ATG7(2) establishes direct protein-protein interactions (PPIs) with metabolic proteins, whereas ATG7(1) primarily interacts with autophagy machinery proteins. Furthermore, we identified that ATG7(2) mediates a decrease in metabolic activity, highlighting a novel splice-dependent function of this important autophagy protein. Then, we found a divergent expression pattern of ATG7(1) and ATG7(2) across human tissues. Conclusively, our work uncovers the divergent patterns of expression, protein interactions, and function of ATG7(2) in contrast to ATG7(1). These findings suggest a molecular switch between main catabolic processes through isoform-dependent expression of a key autophagy gene.
PXD048186	38600601	The development of a novel zeolite-based assay for efficient and deep plasma proteomic profiling. 	The development of a novel zeolite-based assay for efficient and deep plasma proteomic profiling	Plasma, Protein corona, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Zeolite	Plasma proteins are considered the most informative source of biomarkers for disease diagnosis and monitoring. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics has been applied to identify biomarkers in plasma, but the complexity of the plasma proteome and the extremely large dynamic range of protein abundances in plasma make the clinical application of plasma proteomics highly challenging. We designed and synthesized zeolite-based nanoparticles to deplete high-abundance plasma proteins. The resulting novel plasma proteomic assay can measure approximately 3000 plasma proteins in a 45 min chromatographic gradient. Compared to those in neat and depleted plasma, the plasma proteins identified by our assay exhibited distinct biological profiles, as validated in several public datasets. A pilot investigation of the proteomic profile of a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cohort identified 15 promising protein features, highlighting the diagnostic value of the plasma proteome in distinguishing individuals with and without HCC. Furthermore, this assay can be easily integrated with all current downstream protein profiling methods and potentially extended to other biofluids. In conclusion, we established a robust and efficient plasma proteomic assay with unprecedented identification depth, paving the way for the translation of plasma proteomics into clinical applications.
PXD047870	38600976	Multiomics of early epileptogenesis in mice reveals phosphorylation and dephosphorylation-directed growth and synaptic weakening. 	PRM validation of phosphoproteomic and proteomic analysis of early epileptogenesis in mice at 4 and 24 h post-status epilepticus	Epileptogenesis, Phospho-signalling, epilepsy, hippocampus, parallel reaction monitoring, phosphorylation, signalling, synapse growth, synaptic weakening	To investigate the phosphorylation-based signaling and protein changes occurring early in epileptogenesis, the hippocampi of mice treated with pilocarpine were examined by quantitative mass spectrometry at 4 and 24 h post-status epilepticus at vast depth. Hundreds of posttranscriptional regulatory proteins were the major early targets of increased phosphorylation. At 24 h, many protein level changes were detected and the phosphoproteome continued to be perturbed. The major targets of decreased phosphorylation at 4 and 24 h were a subset of postsynaptic density scaffold proteins, ion channels, and neurotransmitter receptors. Many proteins targeted by dephosphorylation at 4 h also had decreased protein abundance at 24 h, indicating a phosphatase-mediated weakening of synapses. Increased translation was indicated by protein changes at 24 h. These observations, and many additional indicators within this multiomic resource, suggest that early epileptogenesis is characterized by signaling that stimulates both growth and a homeostatic response that weakens excitability.
PXD042792	38604503	Multi-omic analysis of Esophageal Adenocarcinoma uncovers candidate therapeutic targets and cancer-selective post-transcriptional regulation. 	Multi-omic analysis of Esophageal Adenocarcinoma uncovers candidate therapeutic targets and cancer-selective post-transcriptional regulation	esophageal adenocarcinoma	BACKGROUND: Efforts to address the poor prognosis associated with esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) have been hampered by a lack of biomarkers to identify early disease and therapeutic targets. Despite extensive efforts to understand the somatic mutations associated with EAC over the past decade, a gap remains in understanding how the atlas of genomic aberrations in this cancer impacts the proteome and which somatic variants are of importance for the disease phenotype. METHODS: We performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of 23 EACs and matched adjacent normal esophageal and gastric tissues. We explored the correlation of transcript and protein abundance using tissue-matched RNA-seq and proteomic data from 7 patients and further integrated these data with a cohort of EAC RNA-seq data (n=264 patients), EAC whole-genome sequencing (n=454 patients) and external published datasets. CENTRAL FINDINGS: We quantified protein expression from 5879 genes in EAC and patient-matched normal tissues. Several biomarker candidates with EAC-selective expression were identified including the transmembrane protein GPA33. We further verified the EAC-enriched expression of GPA33 in an external cohort of 115 patients and confirm this as an attractive diagnostic and therapeutic target. To further extend the insights gained from our proteomic data, an integrated analysis of protein and RNA expression in EAC and normal tissues revealed several genes with poorly correlated Protein and RNA abundance, suggesting post-transcriptional regulation of protein expression. These outlier genes including SLC25A30, TAOK2, and AGMAT, only rarely demonstrated somatic mutation suggesting post-transcriptional drivers for this EAC-specific phenotype. AGMAT was demonstrated to be over-expressed at the protein level in EAC compared to adjacent normal tissues with an EAC-selective, post-transcriptional mechanism of regulation of protein abundance proposed. CONCLUSIONS: By quantitative proteomic analysis we have identified GPA33 as an EAC-selective biomarker. Integrated analysis of proteome, transcriptome, and genome in EAC has revealed several genes with tumor-selective, post-transcriptional regulation of protein expression which may be an exploitable vulnerability.
PXD050861	38605154	Zyxin is important for the stability and function of podocytes, especially during mechanical stretch. 	Comparative protein profiling of wild type and zyxin knockout podocytes	mechanical stretch, podocytes, zyxin knockout	Podocyte detachment due to mechanical stress is a common issue in hypertension-induced kidney disease. This study highlights the role of zyxin for podocyte stability and function. We have found that zyxin is significantly up-regulated in podocytes after mechanical stretch and relocalizes from focal adhesions to actin filaments. In zyxin knockout podocytes, we found that the loss of zyxin reduced the expression of vinculin and VASP as well as the expression of matrix proteins, such as fibronectin. This suggests that zyxin is a central player in the translation of mechanical forces in podocytes. In vivo, zyxin is highly up-regulated in patients suffering from diabetic nephropathy and in hypertensive DOCA-salt treated mice. Furthermore, zyxin loss in mice resulted in proteinuria and effacement of podocyte foot processes that was measured by super resolution microscopy. This highlights the essential role of zyxin for podocyte maintenance in vitro and in vivo, especially under mechanical stretch.
PXD045563	38605423	HERC5 downregulation in non-small cell lung cancer is associated with altered energy metabolism and metastasis. 	HERC5 alters mitochondrial energy metabolism pathways in NSCLC	NSCLC, OXPHOS, cancer metabolism	BACKGROUND: Metastasis is the leading cause of cancer-related death in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. We previously showed that low HERC5 expression predicts early tumor dissemination and a dismal prognosis in NSCLC patients. Here, we performed functional studies to unravel the mechanism underlying the "metastasis-suppressor" effect of HERC5, with a focus on mitochondrial metabolism pathways. METHODS: We assessed cell proliferation, colony formation potential, anchorage-independent growth, migration, and wound healing in NSCLC cell line models with HERC5 overexpression (OE) or knockout (KO). To study early tumor cell dissemination, we used these cell line models in zebrafish experiments and performed intracardial injections in nude mice. Mass spectrometry (MS) was used to analyze protein changes in whole-cell extracts. Furthermore, electron microscopy (EM) imaging, cellular respiration, glycolytic activity, and lactate production were used to investigate the relationships with mitochondrial energy metabolism pathways. RESULTS: Using different in vitro NSCLC cell line models, we showed that NSCLC cells with low HERC5 expression had increased malignant and invasive properties. Furthermore, two different in vivo models in zebrafish and a xenograft mouse model showed increased dissemination and metastasis formation (in particular in the brain). Functional enrichment clustering of MS data revealed an increase in mitochondrial proteins in vitro when HERC5 levels were high. Loss of HERC5 leads to an increased Warburg effect, leading to improved adaptation and survival under prolonged inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results indicate that low HERC5 expression increases the metastatic potential of NSCLC in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, HERC5-induced proteomic changes influence mitochondrial pathways, ultimately leading to alterations in energy metabolism and demonstrating its role as a new potential metastasis suppressor gene.
PXD045572	38607033	Identification of Four Mouse FcRn Splice Variants and FcRn-Specific Vesicles. 	Identification of mouse FcRn-specific vesicles in wild type and FcRn knockout podocytes	FcRn, podocytes, vesicles	Research into the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) has increased dramatically ever since Simister and Mostov first purified a rat version of the receptor. Over the years, FcRn has been shown to function not only as a receptor that transfers immunity from mother to fetus but also performs an array of different functions that include transport and recycling of immunoglobulins and albumin in the adult. Due to its important cellular roles, several clinical trials have been designed to either inhibit/enhance FcRn function or develop of non-invasive therapeutic delivery system such as fusion of drugs to IgG Fc or albumin to enhance delivery inside the cells. Here, we report the accidental identification of several FcRn alternatively spliced variants in both mouse and human cells. The four new mouse splice variants are capable of binding immunoglobulins' Fc and Fab portions. In addition, we have identified FcRn-specific vesicles in which immunoglobulins and albumin can be stored and that are involved in the endosomal-lysosomal system. The complexity of FcRn functions offers significant potential to design and develop novel and targeted therapeutics.
PXD043917	38608019	Neddylation orchestrates the complex transcriptional and posttranscriptional program that drives Schwann cell myelination. 	Neddylation is a global orchestrator of the molecular network driving Schwann cell myelination	Neddylation, PTMs, Schwann cells, label free, ubiquitin-like	Myelination is essential for neuronal function and health. In peripheral nerves, >100 causative mutations have been identified that cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, a disorder that can affect myelin sheaths. Among these, a number of mutations are related to essential targets of the posttranslational modification neddylation, although how these lead to myelin defects is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that inhibiting neddylation leads to a notable absence of peripheral myelin and axonal loss both in developing and regenerating mouse nerves. Our data indicate that neddylation exerts a global influence on the complex transcriptional and posttranscriptional program by simultaneously regulating the expression and function of multiple essential myelination signals, including the master transcription factor EGR2 and the negative regulators c-Jun and Sox2, and inducing global secondary changes in downstream pathways, including the mTOR and YAP/TAZ signaling pathways. This places neddylation as a critical regulator of myelination and delineates the potential pathogenic mechanisms involved in CMT mutations related to neddylation.
PXD045993	38608840	Comprehensive proteomics analysis of polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) biology in Pseudomonas putida KT2440: the outer membrane lipoprotein OprL is a newly identified phasin. 	Comprehensive proteomics analysis of polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) biology in Pseudomonas putida KT2440: the outer membrane lipoprotein OprL is a newly identified phasin Dataset 3	bioplastics, pseudomonas putida	Pseudomonas putida KT2440 is an important bioplastic-producing industrial microorganism capable of synthesizing the polymeric carbon-rich storage material, polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA). PHA is sequestered in discrete PHA granules, or carbonosomes, and accumulates under conditions of stress, for example low levels of available nitrogen. The pha locus responsible for PHA metabolism encodes both anabolic and catabolic enzymes, a transcription factor, and carbonosome-localized proteins termed phasins. The functions of phasins are incompletely understood but genetic disruption of their function causes PHA-related phenotypes. To improve our understanding of these proteins, we investigated the PHA pathways of P.putida KT2440 using three types of experiment. First, we profiled cells grown in nitrogen-limited and nitrogen-excess media using global expression proteomics, identifying sets of proteins found to co-ordinately increase or decrease within clustered pathway. Next, we analysed the protein composition of isolated carbonosomes, identifying two new putative components. We carried out physical interaction screens focused on PHA-related proteins, generating a protein-protein network comprising 434 connected proteins. Finally, we confirmed that the outer membrane protein OprL (the Pal component of the Pal-Tol system) localizes to the carbonosome and shows a PHA-related phenotype, and therefore is a novel phasin. The combined datasets represent a valuable overview of the protein components of the PHA system in P.putida highlighting the complex nature of regulatory interactions responsive to nutrient stress.
PXD050416	38608841	Proteomics-derived biomarker panel facilitates distinguishing primary lung adenocarcinomas with intestinal or mucinous differentiation (PAIM) from lung metastatic colorectal cancer (lmCRC). 	Proteomics-derived biomarker panel facilitates distinguishing primary lung adenocarcinomas with intestinal or mucinous differentiation (PAIM) from lung metastatic colorectal cancer (lmCRC)	intestinal or mucinous differentiation, lung metastatic colorectal cancer, primary lung adenocarcinomas	The diagnosis of primary lung adenocarcinomas with intestinal or mucinous differentiation (PAIM) remains challenging due to the overlapping histomorphological, immunohistochemical and genetic characteristics with lung metastatic colorectal cancer (lmCRC). This study aimed to explore the protein biomarkers that could distinguish between PAIM and lmCRC. To uncover differences between the two diseases, we used tandem mass tagging (TMT)-based shotgun proteomics to characterize proteomes of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor samples of PAIM (n = 22) and lmCRC (n = 17).Then three machine learning algorithms, namely support vector machine (SVM), random forest and the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), were utilized to select protein features with diagnostic significance. These candidate proteins were further validated in an independent cohort (PAIM, n = 11; lmCRC, n = 19) by immunochemistry (IHC) to confirm their diagnostic performance. In total, 105 proteins out of 7871 proteins were significantly dysregulated between PAIM and lmCRC samples and well-separated two groups by Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP). The upregulated proteins in PAIM were involved in actin cytoskeleton organization, platelet degranulation, and regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis, while downregulated ones were involved in mitochondrial transmembrane transport, vasculature development, and stem cell proliferation. A set of 10 candidate proteins (high-level expression in lmCRC: CDH17, ATP1B3, GLB1, OXNAD1, LYST, FABP1; high-level expression in PAIM: CK7 (an established marker), NARR, MLPH, S100A14) was ultimately selected to distinguish PAIM from lmCRC by machine learning algorithms. We further confirmed using IHC that the five protein biomarkers including CDH17, CK7, MLPH, FABP1 and NARR were effective biomarkers for distinguishing PAIM from lmCRC. Our study depicts PAIM-specific proteomic characteristics and demonstrates the potential utility of new protein biomarkers for the differential diagnosis of PAIM and lmCRC. These findings may contribute to improving the diagnostic accuracy and guide appropriate treatments for these patients.
PXD033153	38609044	Aqueous humour protein dysregulation in Asian eyes with primary open angle glaucoma. 	Dysregulated proteins in aqueous humor from primary open angle glaucoma patients with clinical correlation	TMT, aqueous humor, primary open angle glaucoma	The pathophysiology of Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG) remains poorly understood. Through proteomic analysis of aqueous humour (AH) from POAG patients, we aim to identify changes in protein composition of these samples compared to control samples. High resolution mass spectrometry-based TMT6plex quantitative proteomics analysis is performed on AH samples collected from POAG patients, and compared against a control group of patients with cataracts. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033153. 1589 proteins were quantified from the aqueous samples using Proteome Discoverer version 2.2 software. Among these proteins, 210 were identified as unique master proteins. The proteins which were up or down-regulated by +/-3 fold-change were considered significant. Human neuroblastoma full-length cDNA clone CS0DD006YL02 was significantly upregulated in patients with severe POAG on >2 medications, while actin, cytoplasmic 1, V2-7 protein (fragment), immunoglobulin-like polypeptide 1 and phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein 4 were only present in these patients with severe POAG on >2 medications. Beta-crystallin B1 and B2, Gamma-crystallin C, D and S were significantly downregulated in the severe POAG <=2 glaucoma medications group. Beta-crystallin B2, Gamma-crystallin D and GCT-A9 light chain variable region (fragment) were significantly downregulated in the non-severe POAG group. Actin, cytoplasmic 1 was significantly upregulated in subjects with severe POAG who required more than 2 glaucoma medications. Crystallins (Beta-crystallin B1 and B2, Gamma-crystallin C, D and S) were significantly downregulated in subjects with severe POAG who required less than 2 glaucoma medications.
PXD042991	38609101	Dual molecule targeting HDAC6 leads to intratumoral CD4+ cytotoxic lymphocytes recruitment through MHC-II upregulation on lung cancer cells. 	A multi-target molecule restores immune response in lung cancer through intratumoral CD4+ cytotoxic lymphocytes recruitment	CD4 CTL, Drug targets, Expression proteomics, HDAC6, MHC-II, MoA, PISA assay, lung cancer	BACKGROUND: Despite the current therapeutic treatments including surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and more recently immunotherapy, the mortality rate of lung cancer stays high. Regarding lung cancer, epigenetic modifications altering cell cycle, angiogenesis and programmed cancer cell death are therapeutic targets to combine with immunotherapy to improve treatment success. In a recent study, we uncovered that a molecule called QAPHA ((E)-3-(5-((2-cyanoquinolin-4-yl)(methyl)amino)-2-methoxyphenyl)-N-hydroxyacrylamide) has a dual function as both a tubulin polymerization and HDAC inhibitors. Here, we investigate the impact of this novel dual inhibitor on the immune response to lung cancer. METHODS: To elucidate the mechanism of action of QAPHA, we conducted a chemical proteomics analysis. Using an in vivo mouse model of lung cancer (TC-1 tumor cells), we assessed the effects of QAPHA on tumor regression. Tumor infiltrating immune cells were characterized by flow cytometry. RESULTS: In this study, we first showed that QAPHA effectively inhibited histone deacetylase 6, leading to upregulation of HSP90, cytochrome C and caspases, as revealed by proteomic analysis. We confirmed that QAPHA induces immunogenic cell death (ICD) by expressing calreticulin at cell surface in vitro and demonstrated its efficacy as a vaccine in vivo. Remarkably, even at a low concentration (0.5 mg/kg), QAPHA achieved complete tumor regression in approximately 60% of mice treated intratumorally, establishing a long-lasting anticancer immune response. Additionally, QAPHA treatment promoted the infiltration of M1-polarized macrophages in treated mice, indicating the induction of a pro-inflammatory environment within the tumor. Very interestingly, our findings also revealed that QAPHA upregulated major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) expression on TC-1 tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo, facilitating the recruitment of cytotoxic CD4+T cells (CD4+CTL) expressing CD4+, NKG2D+, CRTAM+, and Perforin+. Finally, we showed that tumor regression strongly correlates to MHC-II expression level on tumor cell and CD4(+) CTL infiltrate. CONCLUSION: Collectively, our findings shed light on the discovery of a new multitarget inhibitor able to induce ICD and MHC-II upregulation in TC-1 tumor cell. These two processes participate in enhancing a specific CD4(+) cytotoxic T cell-mediated antitumor response in vivo in our model of lung cancer. This breakthrough suggests the potential of QAPHA as a promising agent for cancer treatment.
PXD045253	38609451	Pseudomonas putida as saviour for troubled Synechococcus elongatus in a synthetic co-culture - interaction studies based on a multi-OMICs approach. 	Pseudomonas putida as saviour for troubled Synechococcus elongatus in a synthetic co-culture - Interaction studies based on a multi-OMICs approach	Pseudomonas putida, Synechococcus elongatus, co-cultultivation, synthetic consortia	In their natural habitats, microbes rarely exist in isolation; instead, they thrive in consortia, where various interactions occur. In this study, a defined synthetic co-culture of the cyanobacterium S. elongatus cscB, which supplies sucrose to the heterotrophic P. putida cscRABY, is investigated to identify potential interactions. Initial experiments reveal a remarkable growth-promoting effect of the heterotrophic partner on the cyanobacterium, resulting in an up to 80% increase in the growth rate and enhanced photosynthetic capacity. Vice versa, the presence of the cyanobacterium has a neutral effect on P. putida cscRABY, highlighting the resilience of pseudomonads against stress and their potential as co-culture partners. Next, a suitable reference process reinforcing the growth-promoting effect is established in a parallel photobioreactor system, which sets the basis for the analysis of the co-culture at the transcriptome, proteome, and metabolome levels. In addition to several moderate changes, including alterations in the metabolism and stress response in both microbes, this comprehensive multi-OMICs approach strongly hints towards the exchange of further molecules beyond the unidirectional feeding with sucrose. Taken together, these findings provide valuable insights into the complex dynamics between both co-culture partners, indicating multi-level interactions, which can be employed for further streamlining of the co-cultivation system.
PXD050440	38609662	Structure of the native gamma-tubulin ring complex capping spindle microtubules. 	Crosslinking mass spectrometry analysis of enriched spindle pole body sample	crosslinking MS, protein-protein interaction, spindle pole body, structure	Microtubule (MT) filaments, composed of alpha/beta-tubulin dimers, are fundamental to cellular architecture, function and organismal development. They are nucleated from MT organizing centers by the evolutionarily conserved gamma-tubulin ring complex (gammaTuRC). However, the molecular mechanism of nucleation remains elusive. Here we used cryo-electron tomography to determine the structure of the native gammaTuRC capping the minus end of a MT in the context of enriched budding yeast spindles. In our structure, gammaTuRC presents a ring of gamma-tubulin subunits to seed nucleation of exclusively 13-protofilament MTs, adopting an active closed conformation to function as a perfect geometric template for MT nucleation. Our cryo-electron tomography reconstruction revealed that a coiled-coil protein staples the first row of alpha/beta-tubulin of the MT to alternating positions along the gamma-tubulin ring of gammaTuRC. This positioning of alpha/beta-tubulin onto gammaTuRC suggests a role for the coiled-coil protein in augmenting gammaTuRC-mediated MT nucleation. Based on our results, we describe a molecular model for budding yeast gammaTuRC activation and MT nucleation.
PXD047559	38611557	Physiological and Proteomic Analyses of mtn1 Mutant Reveal Key Players in Centipedegrass Tiller Development. 	centipedegrass tiller bud and internode proteome	centipedegrass, tiller bud	Tillering directly determines the seed production and propagation capacity of clonal plants. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the tiller development of clonal plants are still not fully understood. In this study, we conducted a proteome comparison between the tiller buds and stem node of a multiple-tiller mutant mtn1 (more tillering number 1) and a wild type of centipedegrass. The results showed significant increases of 29.03% and 27.89% in the first and secondary tiller numbers, respectively, in the mtn1 mutant compared to the wild type. The photosynthetic rate increased by 31.44%, while the starch, soluble sugar, and sucrose contents in the tiller buds and stem node showed increases of 13.79%, 39.10%, 97.64%, 37.97%, 55.64%, and 7.68%, respectively, compared to the wild type. Two groups comprising 438 and 589 protein species, respectively, were differentially accumulated in the tiller buds and stem node in the mtn1 mutant. Consistent with the physiological characteristics, sucrose and starch metabolism as well as plant hormone signaling were found to be enriched with differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in the mtn1 mutant. These results revealed that sugars and plant hormones may play important regulatory roles in the tiller development in centipedegrass. These results expanded our understanding of tiller development in clonal plants.
PXD047823	38612495	Discrimination of Etiologically Different Cholestasis by Modeling Proteomics Datasets. 	Discrimination of etiologically different cholestasis by modeling proteomics datasets	cholestasis, liver	Cholestasis is characterized by disrupted bile flow from the liver to the small intestine. Although etiologically different cholestasis displays similar symptoms, diverse factors can contribute to the progression of the disease and determine the appropriate therapeutic option. Therefore, stratifying cholestatic patients is essential for the development of tailor-made treatment strategies. Here, we have analyzed the liver proteome from cholestatic patients of different etiology. In total, 7161 proteins were identified and quantified, of which 263 were differentially expressed between control and cholestasis groups. These differential proteins point to deregulated cellular processes that explain part of the molecular framework of cholestasis progression. However, the clustering of different cholestasis types was limited. Therefore, a machine learning pipeline was designed to identify a panel of 20 differential proteins that segregate different cholestasis groups with high accuracy and sensitivity. In summary, proteomics combined with machine learning algorithms provides valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of cholestasis progression and a panel of proteins to discriminate across different types of cholestasis. This strategy may prove useful in developing precision medicine approaches for patient care.
PXD047446	38612515	Proteomic Analysis of Salivary Extracellular Vesicles from COVID-19 Patients Reveals a Specific Anti-COVID-19 Response Protein Signature. 	Proteomic analysis of salivary extracellular vesicles from COVID-19 patients reveals a specific anti-COVID-19 response protein signature	COVID-19, Liquid biopsies, extracellular vesicles, saliva	Despite the understanding of the coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19), the role of salivary extracellular vesicles (sEVs) in COVID-19 remains unclear. Exploring the proteomic cargo of sEVs could prove valuable for diagnostic and prognostic purposes in assessing COVID-19. The proteomic cargo of sEVs from COVID-19(+) subjects and their healthy close contacts (HCC) was explored. sEVs were isolated by ultracentrifugation from unstimulated saliva samples, and subsequently characterized through nanoparticle tracking, transmission electron microscopy, and Western blot analyses. The proteomic cargo of sEVs was processed by LC-MS/MS. sEVs were morphologically compatible with EVs, with the presence of Syntenin-1 and CD81 EV markers. The sEV pellet showed 1417 proteins: 1288 in COVID-19(+) cases and 1382 in HCC. In total, 124 proteins were differentially expressed in sEVs from COVID-19(+) subjects. "Coronavirus-disease response", "complement and coagulation cascades", and "PMN extracellular trap formation" were the most enriched KEGG pathways in COVID-19(+) cases. The most represented biological processes were "Hemoglobin and haptoglobin binding" and "oxygen carrier activity", and the best-denoted molecular functions were "regulated exocytosis and secretion" and "leucocyte and PMN mediated immunity". sEV proteomic cargo in COVID-19(+) suggests activity related to immune response processes, oxygen transport, and antioxidant mechanisms. In contrast, in HCC, sEV signature profiles are mainly associated with epithelial homeostasis.
PXD043896	38612550	The Bee Gut Microbiota: Bridging Infective Agents Potential in the One Health Context. 	Metaproteomics-based exploration of Apis mellifera ligustica bee gut microbiota	bee metaproteomics, bee microbiota, one health, vectorborne infections	The bee gut microbiota plays an important role in the services the bees pay to the environment, humans and animals. Alongside, gut-associated microorganisms are vehiculated between apparently remote habitats, promoting microbial heterogeneity of the visited microcosms and the transfer of the microbial genetic elements. To date, no metaproteomics studies dealing with the functional bee microbiota are available. Here, we employ a metaproteomics approach to explore a fraction of the bacterial, fungal, and unicellular parasites inhabiting the bee gut. The bacterial community portrays a dynamic composition, accounting for specimens of human and animal concern. Their functional features highlight the vehiculation of virulence and antimicrobial resistance traits. The fungal and unicellular parasite fractions include environment- and animal-related specimens, whose metabolic activities support the spatial spreading of functional features. Host proteome depicts the major bee physiological activities, supporting the metaproteomics strategy for the simultaneous study of multiple microbial specimens and their host-crosstalks. Altogether, the present study provides a better definition of the structure and function of the bee gut microbiota, highlighting its impact in a variety of strategies aimed at improving/overcoming several current hot topic issues such as antimicrobial resistance, environmental pollution and the promotion of environmental health.
PXD050743	38612854	Proteomic Profiling of Endothelial Cells Exposed to Mitomycin C: Key Proteins and Pathways Underlying Genotoxic Stress-Induced Endothelial Dysfunction. 	Proteomic Profiling of Endothelial Cells Exposed to Mitomycin C	Endothelial cells, TIMS PASEF, endothelial dysfunction, genotoxic stress, mitomycin C	Mitomycin C (MMC)-induced genotoxic stress can be considered to be a novel trigger of endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis-a leading cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality worldwide. Given the increasing genotoxic load on the human organism, the decryption of the molecular pathways underlying genotoxic stress-induced endothelial dysfunction could improve our understanding of the role of genotoxic stress in atherogenesis. Here, we performed a proteomic profiling of human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs) and human internal thoracic endothelial cells (HITAECs) in vitro that were exposed to MMC to identify the biochemical pathways and proteins underlying genotoxic stress-induced endothelial dysfunction. We denoted 198 and 71 unique, differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the MMC-treated HCAECs and HITAECs, respectively; only 4 DEPs were identified in both the HCAECs and HITAECs. In the MMC-treated HCAECs, 44.5% of the DEPs were upregulated and 55.5% of the DEPs were downregulated, while in HITAECs, these percentages were 72% and 28%, respectively. The denoted DEPs are involved in the processes of nucleotides and RNA metabolism, vesicle-mediated transport, post-translation protein modification, cell cycle control, the transport of small molecules, transcription and signal transduction. The obtained results could improve our understanding of the fundamental basis of atherogenesis and help in the justification of genotoxic stress as a risk factor for atherosclerosis.
PXD048109	38612921	Interaction of Nipah Virus F and G with the Cellular Protein Cortactin Discovered by a Proximity Interactome Assay. 	A proximity interactome assay for interaction of nipah virus F and G protein with the cellular protein	Nipah virus, Niv F, Niv G, proximity labeling	Nipah virus (NiV) is a highly lethal zoonotic virus with a potential large-scale outbreak, which poses a great threat to world health and security. In order to explore more potential factors associated with NiV, a proximity labeling method was applied to investigate the F, G, and host protein interactions systematically. We screened 1996 and 1524 high-confidence host proteins that interacted with the NiV fusion (F) glycoprotein and attachment (G) glycoprotein in HEK293T cells by proximity labeling technology, and 863 of them interacted with both F and G. The results of GO and KEGG enrichment analysis showed that most of these host proteins were involved in cellular processes, molecular binding, endocytosis, tight junction, and other functions. Cytoscape software (v3.9.1) was used for visual analysis, and the results showed that Cortactin (CTTN), Serpine mRNA binding protein 1 (SERBP1), and stathmin 1 (STMN1) were the top 20 proteins and interacted with F and G, and were selected for further validation. We observed colocalization of F-CTTN, F-SERBP1, F-STMN1, G-CTTN, G-SERBP1, and G-STMN1 using confocal fluorescence microscopy, and the results showed that CTTN, SERBP1, and STMN1 overlapped with NiV F and NiV G in HEK293T cells. Further studies found that CTTN can significantly inhibit the infection of the Nipah pseudovirus (NiVpv) into host cells, while SERBP1 and STMN1 had no significant effect on pseudovirus infection. In addition, CTTN can also inhibit the infection of the Hendra pseudovirus (HeVpv) in 293T cells. In summary, this study revealed that the potential host proteins interacted with NiV F and G and demonstrated that CTTN could inhibit NiVpv and HeVpv infection, providing new evidence and targets for the study of drugs against these diseases.
PXD047724	38614079	The tardigrade Hypsibius exemplaris dramatically upregulates DNA repair pathway genes in response to ionizing radiation. 	Tardigrades dramatically upregulate DNA repair pathway genes in response to ionizing radiation	Tardigrades, transciptomics	Tardigrades can survive remarkable doses of ionizing radiation, up to about 1,000 times the lethal dose for humans. How they do so is incompletely understood. We found that the tardigrade Hypsibius exemplaris suffers DNA damage upon gamma irradiation, but the damage is repaired. We show that this species has a specific and robust response to ionizing radiation: irradiation induces a rapid upregulation of many DNA repair genes. This upregulation is unexpectedly extreme-making some DNA repair transcripts among the most abundant transcripts in the animal. By expressing tardigrade genes in bacteria, we validate that increased expression of some repair genes can suffice to increase radiation tolerance. We show that at least one such gene is important in vivo for tardigrade radiation tolerance. We hypothesize that the tardigrades' ability to sense ionizing radiation and massively upregulate specific DNA repair pathway genes may represent an evolved solution for maintaining DNA integrity.
PXD051359	38615319	Targeting high circDNA2v levels in colorectal cancer induces cellular senescence and elicits an anti-tumor secretome. 	Targeting high circDNA2v levels in colorectal cancer induces cellular senescence and elicits an anti-tumor secretome	CD8+T cells, CXCL10, IGF2BP3, IL-9, c-Myc, circDNA2v, circular RNA, senescence	The efficacy of immunotherapy against colorectal cancer (CRC) is impaired by insufficient immune cell recruitment into the tumor microenvironment. Our study shows that targeting circDNA2v, a circular RNA commonly overexpressed in CRC, can be exploited to elicit cytotoxic T cell recruitment. circDNA2v functions through binding to IGF2BP3, preventing its ubiquitination, and prolonging the IGF2BP3 half-life, which in turn sustains mRNA levels of the protooncogene c-Myc. Targeting circDNA2v by gene silencing downregulates c-Myc to concordantly induce tumor cell senescence and the release of proinflammatory mediators. Production of CXCL10 and interleukin-9 by CRC cells is elicited through JAK-STAT1 signaling, in turn promoting the chemotactic and cytolytic activities of CD8(+) T cells. Clinical evidence associates increased circDNA2v expression in CRC tissues with reductions in CD8(+) T cell infiltration and worse outcomes. The regulatory relationship between circDNA2v, cellular senescence, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes thus provides a rational approach for improving immunotherapy in CRC.
PXD038137	38615442	Integrated omics approach reveals the molecular pathways activated in tomato by Kocuria rhizophila, a soil plant growth-promoting bacterium. 	A differential proteomic approach highlighted differences induced by plant growth promoting bacteria in Solanum lycopersicum treated with Kocuria rhizophila and Streptomyces violaceoruber	Tomato, plant growth promoting bacteria	Plant microbial biostimulants application has become a promising and eco-friendly agricultural strategy to improve crop yields, reducing chemical inputs for more sustainable cropping systems. The soil dwelling bacterium Kocuria rhizophila was previously characterized as Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria (PGPB) for its multiple PGP traits, such as indole-3-acetic acid production, phosphate solubilization capability and salt and drought stress tolerance. Here, we evaluated by a multi-omics approach, the PGP activity of K. rhizophila on tomato, revealing the molecular pathways by which it promotes plant growth. Transcriptomic analysis showed several up-regulated genes mainly related to amino acid metabolism, cell wall organization, lipid and secondary metabolism, together with a modulation in the DNA methylation profile, after PGPB inoculation. In agreement, proteins involved in photosynthesis, cell division, and plant growth were highly accumulated by K. rhizophila. Furthermore, "amino acid and peptides", "monosaccharides", and "TCA" classes of metabolites resulted the most affected by PGPB treatment, as well as dopamine, a catecholamine neurotransmitter mediating plant growth through S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC), a gene enhancing the vegetative growth, up-regulated in tomato by K. rhizophila treatment. Interestingly, eight gene modules well correlated with differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) and metabolites (DAMs), among which two modules showed the highest correlation with nine proteins, including a nucleoside diphosphate kinase, and cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase, as well as with several amino acids and metabolites involved in TCA cycle. Overall, our findings highlighted that sugars and amino acids, energy regulators, involved in tomato plant growth, were strongly modulated by the K. rhizophila-plant interaction.
PXD054183	38617206	Nuclear release of eIF1 globally increases stringency of start-codon selection to preserve mitotic arrest physiology. 	Nuclear release of eIF1 globally increases stringency of start codon selection to preserve mitotic arrest physiology	Translation, cell cycle, mitosis, ribosomes	Regulated start-codon selection has the potential to reshape the proteome through the differential production of uORFs, canonical proteins, and alternative translational isoforms. However, conditions under which start-codon selection is altered remain poorly defined. Here, using transcriptome-wide translation initiation site profiling, we reveal a global increase in the stringency of start-codon selection during mammalian mitosis. Low-efficiency initiation sites are preferentially repressed in mitosis, resulting in pervasive changes in the translation of thousands of start sites and their corresponding protein products. This increased stringency of start-codon selection during mitosis results from increased interactions between the key regulator of start- codon selection, eIF1, and the 40S ribosome. We find that increased eIF1-40S ribosome interactions during mitosis are mediated by the release of a nuclear pool of eIF1 upon nuclear envelope breakdown. Selectively depleting the nuclear pool of eIF1 eliminates the changes to translational stringency during mitosis, resulting in altered mitotic proteome composition. In addition, preventing mitotic translational rewiring results in substantially increased cell death and decreased mitotic slippage following treatment with anti-mitotic chemotherapeutics. Thus, cells globally control translation initiation stringency with critical roles during the mammalian cell cycle to preserve mitotic cell physiology.
PXD055640	38617285	Proteasome hyperactivation rewires the proteome enhancing stress resistance, proteostasis, lipid metabolism and ERAD in C. elegans. 	Hyperactive 20S Proteasome Enhances Proteostasis and ERAD in C. elegans via degradation of Intrinsically Disordered Proteins	Proteasome degradation c.elegans TMT-MS proteostasis ERAD	Proteasome dysfunction is implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases and age-related proteinopathies. Using a C. elegans model, we demonstrate that 20S proteasome hyperactivation, facilitated by 20S gate-opening, accelerates the targeting of intrinsically disordered proteins. This leads to increased protein synthesis, extensive rewiring of the proteome and transcriptome, enhanced oxidative stress defense, accelerated lipid metabolism, and peroxisome proliferation. It also promotes ER-associated degradation (ERAD) of aggregation-prone proteins, such as alpha-1 antitrypsin (ATZ) and various lipoproteins. Notably, our results reveal that 20S proteasome hyperactivation suggests a novel role in ERAD with broad implications for proteostasis-related disorders, simultaneously affecting lipid homeostasis and peroxisome proliferation. Furthermore, the enhanced cellular capacity to mitigate proteostasis challenges, alongside unanticipated acceleration of lipid metabolism is expected to contribute to the longevity phenotype of this mutant. Remarkably, the mechanism of longevity induced by 20S gate opening appears unique, independent of known longevity and stress-resistance pathways. These results support the therapeutic potential of 20S proteasome activation in mitigating proteostasis-related disorders broadly and provide new insights into the complex interplay between proteasome activity, cellular health, and aging.
PXD050296	38617292	Dietary protein source strongly alters gut microbiota composition and function. 	Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron grown on different sources of dietary protein and glucose	Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, Gut bacteria, Protein Media	The source of protein in a persons diet affects their total life expectancy. However, the mechanisms by which dietary protein sources differentially impact human health and life expectancy are poorly understood. Dietary choices have major impacts on the composition and function of the intestinal microbiota that ultimately mediate host health. This raises the possibility that health outcomes based on dietary protein sources might be driven by interactions between dietary protein and the gut microbiota. In this study, we determine the effects of seven different sources of dietary protein on the gut microbiota in mice. We apply an integrated metagenomics-metaproteomics approach to simultaneously investigate the effects of these dietary protein sources on the gut microbiotas composition and function. The protein abundances measured by metaproteomics can provide microbial species abundances, and evidence for the phenotype of microbiota members on the molecular level because measured proteins allow us to infer the metabolic and physiological processes used by a microbial community. We showed that dietary protein source significantly altered the species composition and overall function of the gut microbiota. Different dietary protein sources led to changes in the abundance of microbial amino acid degrading proteins and proteins involved in the degradation of glycosylations on dietary protein. In particular, brown rice and egg white protein increased the abundance of amino acid degrading enzymes and egg white protein increased the abundance of bacteria and proteins usually associated with the degradation of the intestinal mucus barrier. These results show that dietary protein source can change the gut microbiotas metabolism, which could have major implications in the context of gut microbiota mediated diseases.
PXD050061	38619924	Platelet-Rich Plasma in Young and Elderly Humans Exhibits a Different Proteomic Profile. 	Mass spectrometry data of Platelet-rich plasma from 6 young and 6 elderly individuals	aging, platelet-rich plasma, tissue repair	As people age, their ability to resist injury and repair damage decreases significantly. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) has demonstrated diverse therapeutic effects on tissue repair. However, the inconsistency of patient outcomes poses a challenge to the practical application of PRP in clinical practice. Furthermore, a comprehensive understanding of the specific impact of aging on PRP requires a systematic investigation. We derived PRP from 6 young volunteers and 6 elderly volunteers, respectively. Subsequently, 95% of high-abundance proteins were removed, followed by mass spectrometry analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD050061. We detected a total of 739 proteins and selected 311 proteins that showed significant differences, including 76 upregulated proteins in the young group and 235 upregulated proteins in the elderly group. Functional annotation and enrichment analysis unveiled upregulation of proteins associated with cell apoptosis, angiogenesis, and complement and coagulation cascades in the elderly. Conversely, IGF1 was found to be upregulated in the young group, potentially serving as the central source of enhanced cell proliferation ability. Our investigation not only provides insights into standardizing PRP preparation but also offers novel strategies for augmenting the functionality of aging cells or tissues.
PXD048383	38621258	Bone Proteomics Method Optimization for Forensic Investigations. 	Bone proteomics methods optimisation for forensic investigations	Bone proteomics, acquisition mode, forensic science, protein extraction	The application of proteomic analysis to forensic skeletal remains has gained significant interest in improving biological and chronological estimations in medico-legal investigations. To enhance the applicability of these analyses to forensic casework, it is crucial to maximize throughput and proteome recovery while minimizing interoperator variability and laboratory-induced post-translational protein modifications (PTMs). This work compared different workflows for extracting, purifying, and analyzing bone proteins using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS)/MS including an in-StageTip protocol previously optimized for forensic applications and two protocols using novel suspension-trap technology (S-Trap) and different lysis solutions. This study also compared data-dependent acquisition (DDA) with data-independent acquisition (DIA). By testing all of the workflows on 30 human cortical tibiae samples, S-Trap workflows resulted in increased proteome recovery with both lysis solutions tested and in decreased levels of induced deamidations, and the DIA mode resulted in greater sensitivity and window of identification for the identification of lower-abundance proteins, especially when open-source software was utilized for data processing in both modes. The newly developed S-Trap protocol is, therefore, suitable for forensic bone proteomic workflows and, particularly when paired with DIA mode, can offer improved proteomic outcomes and increased reproducibility, showcasing its potential in forensic proteomics and contributing to achieving standardization in bone proteomic analyses for forensic applications.
PXD048595	38621647	Quantification Quality Control Emerges as A Crucial Factor to Enhance Single Cell Proteomics Data Analysis. 	Quantification Quality Control Emerges as A Crucial Factor to Enhance Single Cell Proteomics Data Analysis	PSM-level normalization, Single-cell proteomics, differential expression analysis, isobaric labeling, matching between runs	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based single-cell proteomics (SCP) provides us the opportunity to unbiasedly explore biological variability within cells without the limitation of antibody availability. This field is rapidly developed with the main focuses on instrument advancement, sample preparation refinement, and signal boosting methods; however, the optimal data processing and analysis are rarely investigated which holds an arduous challenge because of the high proportion of missing values and batch effect. Here, we introduced a quantification quality control to intensify the identification of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) by considering both within and across SCP data. Combining quantification quality control with isobaric matching between runs (IMBR) and PSM-level normalization, an additional 12% and 19% of proteins and peptides, with more than 90% of proteins/peptides containing valid values, were quantified. Clearly, quantification quality control was able to reduce quantification variations and q-values with the more apparent cell type separations. In addition, we found that PSM-level normalization performed similarly to other protein-level normalizations but kept the original data profiles without the additional requirement of data manipulation. In proof of concept of our refined pipeline, six uniquely identified DEPs exhibiting varied fold-changes and playing critical roles for melanoma and monocyte functionalities were selected for validation using immunoblotting. Five out of six validated DEPs showed an identical trend with the SCP dataset, emphasizing the feasibility of combining the IMBR, cell quality control, and PSM-level normalization in SCP analysis, which is beneficial for future SCP studies.
PXD042083	38622688	Interferon-alpha stimulates DExH-box helicase 58 to prevent hepatocyte ferroptosis. 	Pre-treatment of Interferon-alpha stimulates DHX58 to prevent hepatic ferroptosis	DHX58, Ferroptosis, GPX4, Interferon, YTHDC2, m6A modification	BACKGROUND: Liver ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is usually caused by hepatic inflow occlusion during liver surgery, and is frequently observed during war wounds and trauma. Hepatocyte ferroptosis plays a critical role in liver I/R injury, however, it remains unclear whether this process is controlled or regulated by members of the DEAD/DExH-box helicase (DDX/DHX) family. METHODS: The expression of DDX/DHX family members during liver I/R injury was screened using transcriptome analysis. Hepatocyte-specific Dhx58 knockout mice were constructed, and a partial liver I/R operation was performed. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) in the liver post I/R suggested enhanced ferroptosis by Dhx58(hep-/-). The mRNAs and proteins associated with DExH-box helicase 58 (DHX58) were screened using RNA immunoprecipitation-sequencing (RIP-seq) and IP-mass spectrometry (IP-MS). RESULTS: Excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) decreased the expression of the IFN-stimulated gene Dhx58 in hepatocytes and promoted hepatic ferroptosis, while treatment using IFN-alpha increased DHX58 expression and prevented ferroptosis during liver I/R injury. Mechanistically, DHX58 with RNA-binding activity constitutively associates with the mRNA of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), a central ferroptosis suppressor, and recruits the m(6)A reader YT521-B homology domain containing 2 (YTHDC2) to promote the translation of Gpx4 mRNA in an m(6)A-dependent manner, thus enhancing GPX4 protein levels and preventing hepatic ferroptosis. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides mechanistic evidence that IFN-alpha stimulates DHX58 to promote the translation of m(6)A-modified Gpx4 mRNA, suggesting the potential clinical application of IFN-alpha in the prevention of hepatic ferroptosis during liver I/R injury.
PXD044503	38623715	A blood-based multi-omic landscape for the molecular characterization of kidney stone disease. 	A blood-based multi-omic landscape for the molecular characterization of Kidney Stone Disease	DNA methylation, Kidney stone disease, exosome, multi-omics	Kidney stone disease (KSD, also named renal calculi, nephrolithiasis, or urolithiasis) is a common urological disease entailing the formation of minerals and salts that form inside the urinary tract, frequently caused by diabetes, high blood pressure, hypertension, and monogenetic components in most patients. 10% of adults worldwide are affected by KSD, which continues to be highly prevalent and with increasing incidence. For the identification of novel therapeutic targets in KSD, we adopted high-throughput sequencing and mass spectrometry (MS) techniques in this study and carried out an integrative analysis of exosome proteomic data and DNA methylation data from blood samples of normal and KSD individuals. Our research delineated the profiling of exosomal proteins and DNA methylation in both healthy individuals and those afflicted with KSD, finding that the overexpressed proteins and the demethylated genes in KSD samples are associated with immune responses. The consistency of the results in proteomics and epigenetics supports the feasibility of the comprehensive strategy. Our insights into the molecular landscape of KSD pave the way for a deeper understanding of its pathogenic mechanism, providing an opportunity for more precise diagnosis and targeted treatment strategies for KSD.
PXD039266	38624180	Anaerobic oxidation of ammonium and short-chain gaseous alkanes coupled to nitrate reduction by a bacterial consortium. 	Nitrate-dependent anaerobic propane and butane oxidation coupled to anaerobic ammonium oxidation	Propane, anammox., nitrate	The bacterial species 'Candidatus Alkanivorans nitratireducens' was recently demonstrated to mediate nitrate-dependent anaerobic oxidation of short-chain gaseous alkanes (SCGAs). In previous bioreactor enrichment studies1,2, the species appeared to reduce nitrate in two phases, switching from denitrification to dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA) in response to nitrite accumulation. The regulation of this switch or the nature of potential syntrophic partnerships with other microorganisms remains unclear. Here, we describe anaerobic multispecies cultures of bacteria which couple the oxidation of propane and butane to nitrate reduction and the oxidation of ammonium (anammox). Batch tests with 15N-isotope labelling and multi-omic analyses collectively supported a syntrophic partnership between 'Ca. A. nitratireducens' and anammox bacteria, with the former species mediating nitrate-driven oxidation of SCGAs, supplying the latter with nitrite for the oxidation of ammonium. The elimination of nitrite accumulation by the anammox substantially increased SCGA and nitrate consumption rates, whereas suppressing DNRA. Removing ammonium supply led to its eventual production, the accumulation of nitrite, and the upregulation of DNRA gene expression for the abundant 'Ca. A. nitratireducens'. Increasing the supply of SCGA had a similar effect in promoting DNRA. Our results suggest that 'Ca. A. nitratireducens' switches to DNRA to alleviate oxidative stress caused by nitrite accumulation, giving further insight into adaptability and ecology of this microorganism. Our findings also have important implications for the understanding of the fate of nitrogen and SCGAs in anaerobic environments.
PXD047032	38624231	NS7a of SADS-CoV promotes viral infection via inducing apoptosis to suppress type III interferon production. 	NS7a of SADS-CoV promotes viral infection via inducing apoptosis to suppress Type III interferon production	Apoptosis, Apoptosis inducing factor mitochondria associated 1 (AIFM1), IFN-, NS7a, Swine acute diarrhea syndrome virus (SADS-CoV), viral replication	Swine acute diarrhea syndrome coronavirus (SADS-CoV) is a newly discovered swine coronavirus with potential cross-species transmission risk. Although SADS-CoV-induced host cell apoptosis and innate immunity antagonization has been revealed, underlying signaling pathways remain obscure. Here, we demonstrated that infection of SADS-CoV induced apoptosis in vivo and in vitro, and that viral protein NS7a is mainly responsible for SADS-CoV-induced apoptosis in host cells. Furthermore, we found that NS7a interacted with apoptosis-inducing factor mitochondria associated 1 (AIFM1) to activate caspase-3 via caspase-6 in SADS-CoV-infected cells, and enhanced SADS-CoV replication. Importantly, NS7a suppressed poly(I:C)-induced expression of type III interferon (IFN-lambda) via activating caspase-3 to cleave interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), and caspase-3 inhibitor protects piglets against SADS-CoV infection in vivo. These findings reveal how SADS-CoV induced apoptosis to inhibit innate immunity and provide a valuable clue to the development of effective drugs for the clinical control of SADS-CoV infection.IMPORTANCEOver the last 20 years, multiple animal-originated coronaviruses, including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), middle east respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), and SARS-CoV-2, have caused millions of deaths, seriously jeopardized human health, and hindered social development, indicating that the study of animal-originated coronaviruses with potential for cross-species transmission is particularly important. Bat-originated swine acute diarrhea syndrome coronavirus (SADS-CoV), discovered in 2017, can not only cause fatal diarrhea in piglets, but also infect multiple human cells, with a potential risk of cross-species transmission, but its pathogenesis is unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that NS7a of SADS-CoV suppresses IFN-lambda production via apoptosis-inducing factor mitochondria associated 1 (AIFM1)-caspase-6-caspase-3-interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) pathway, and caspase-3 inhibitor (Z-DEVD-FMK) can effectively inhibit SADS-CoV replication and protect infected piglets. Our findings in this study contribute to a better understanding of SADS-CoV-host interactions as a part of the coronaviruses pathogenesis and using apoptosis-inhibitor as a drug as potential therapeutic approaches for prevention and control of SADS-CoV infection.
PXD050162	38626009	Decoding cocaine-induced proteomic adaptations in the mouse nucleus accumbens. 	Decoding Cocaine-Induced Proteomic Adaptations in the Mouse Nucleus Accumbens	Cocaine, chromatin, nucleus accumbens	Cocaine use disorder (CUD) is a chronic neuropsychiatric condition that results from enduring cellular and molecular adaptations. Among substance use disorders, CUD is notable for its rising prevalence and the lack of approved pharmacotherapies. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a region that is integral to the brain's reward circuitry, plays a crucial role in the initiation and continuation of maladaptive behaviors that are intrinsic to CUD. Leveraging advancements in neuroproteomics, we undertook a proteomic analysis that spanned membrane, cytosolic, nuclear, and chromatin compartments of the NAc in a mouse model. The results unveiled immediate and sustained proteomic modifications after cocaine exposure and during prolonged withdrawal. We identified congruent protein regulatory patterns during initial cocaine exposure and reexposure after withdrawal, which contrasted with distinct patterns during withdrawal. Pronounced proteomic shifts within the membrane compartment indicated adaptive and long-lasting molecular responses prompted by cocaine withdrawal. In addition, we identified potential protein translocation events between soluble-nuclear and chromatin-bound compartments, thus providing insight into intracellular protein dynamics after cocaine exposure. Together, our findings illuminate the intricate proteomic landscape that is altered in the NAc by cocaine use and provide a dataset for future research toward potential therapeutics.
PXD040145	38626916	Superparamagnetic Iron Oxide Nanoparticles Reprogram the Tumor Microenvironment and Reduce Lung Cancer Regrowth after Crizotinib Treatment. 	Super-paramagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles reprogram the tumor microenvironment and reduce lung cancer growth	SPION, immunotherapy, iron, lung cancer, macrophages	ALK-positive NSCLC patients demonstrate initial responses to ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) treatments, but eventually develop resistance, causing rapid tumor relapse and poor survival rates. Growing evidence suggests that the combination of drug and immune therapies greatly improves patient survival; however, due to the low immunogenicity of the tumors, ALK-positive patients do not respond to currently available immunotherapies. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play a crucial role in facilitating lung cancer growth by suppressing tumoricidal immune activation and absorbing chemotherapeutics. However, they can also be programmed toward a pro-inflammatory tumor suppressive phenotype, which represents a highly active area of therapy development. Iron loading of TAMs can achieve such reprogramming correlating with an improved prognosis in lung cancer patients. We previously showed that superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles containing core-cross-linked polymer micelles (SPION-CCPMs) target macrophages and stimulate pro-inflammatory activation. Here, we show that SPION-CCPMs stimulate TAMs to secrete reactive nitrogen species and cytokines that exert tumoricidal activity. We further show that SPION-CCPMs reshape the immunosuppressive Eml4-Alk lung tumor microenvironment (TME) toward a cytotoxic profile hallmarked by the recruitment of CD8(+) T cells, suggesting a multifactorial benefit of SPION-CCPM application. When intratracheally instilled into lung cancer-bearing mice, SPION-CCPMs delay tumor growth and, after first line therapy with a TKI, halt the regrowth of relapsing tumors. These findings identify SPIONs-CCPMs as an adjuvant therapy, which remodels the TME, resulting in a delay in the appearance of resistant tumors.
PXD048538	38627210	Proteome-based molecular subtyping and therapeutic target prediction in gastric cancer. 	LC-MSMS based (phospho)proteomics on gastric cancer cell lines	gastric cancer, phosphoproteomics, tyrosine phosphorylation profiling	Different molecular classifications for gastric cancer (GC) have been proposed based on multi-omics platforms with the long-term goal of improved precision treatment. However, the GC (phospho)proteome remains incompletely characterized, particularly at the level of tyrosine phosphorylation. In addition, previous multiomics-based stratification of patient cohorts has lacked identification of corresponding cell line models and comprehensive validation of broad or subgroup-selective therapeutic targets. To address these knowledge gaps, we applied a reverse approach, undertaking the most comprehensive (phospho)proteomic analysis of GC cell lines to date and cross-validating this using publicly available data. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based (phospho)proteomic and tyrosine phosphorylation datasets were subjected to individual or integrated clustering to identify subgroups that were subsequently characterized in terms of enriched molecular processes and pathways. Significant congruence was detected between cell line proteomic and specific patient-derived transcriptomic subclassifications. Many protein kinases exhibiting 'outlier' expression or phosphorylation in the cell line dataset exhibited genomic aberrations in patient samples and association with poor prognosis, with casein kinase I isoform delta/epsilon (CSNK1D/E) being experimentally validated as potential therapeutic targets. Src family kinases were predicted to be commonly hyperactivated in GC cell lines, consistent with broad sensitivity to the next-generation Src inhibitor eCF506. In addition, phosphoproteomic and integrative clustering segregated the cell lines into two subtypes, with epithelial-mesenchyme transition (EMT) and proliferation-associated processes enriched in one, designated the EMT subtype, and metabolic pathways, cell-cell junctions, and the immune response dominating the features of the other, designated the metabolism subtype. Application of kinase activity prediction algorithms and interrogation of gene dependency and drug sensitivity databases predicted that the mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and dual specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 2 (MAP2K2) represented potential therapeutic targets for the EMT and metabolism subtypes, respectively, and this was confirmed using selective inhibitors. Overall, our study provides novel, in-depth insights into GC proteomics, kinomics, and molecular taxonomy and reveals potential therapeutic targets that could provide the basis for precision treatments.
PXD042789	38628727	Inhibition of autophagosome-lysosome fusion contributes to TDCIPP-induced Abeta1-42 production in N2a-APPswe cells. 	Lysosome-autophagy dysfunction contribute to TDCIPP induced Abeta1-42 production in N2a-APPswe cells.	Abeta42, Alzheimer disease, STAT1, autophagy	Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia and is characterized by cognitive impairment. The disruption of autophagosome-lysosome function has been linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Tris (1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCIPP) is a widely used organophosphorus flame retardant that has the potential to cause neuronal damage. We found that TDCIPP significantly increased the expression of beta-site amyloid precursor protein (APP)-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), presenilin-1 (PS1) and Abeta42. Proteomic studies with TMT labeling revealed changes in the profiles of N2a-APPswe cells after exposure to TDCIPP. Proteomic and bioinformatics analyses revealed that lysosomal proteins were dysregulated in N2a-APPswe cells after treatment with TDCIPP. The LC3, P62, CTSD, and LAMP1 levels were increased after TDCIPP exposure, and dysregulated protein expression was validated by Western blotting. The exposure to TDCIPP led to the accumulation of autophagosomes, and this phenomenon was enhanced in the presence of chloroquine (CQ). Our results revealed for the first time that TDCIPP could be a potential environmental risk factor for AD development. The inhibition of autophagosome-lysosome fusion may have a significant impact on the generation of Abeta1-42 in response to TDCIPP.
PXD047582	38629187	Characterization of a chromatin-associated TCF7L1 complex in human embryonic stem cells. 	Chromatin immunoprecipitation of ectopic FLAG-tagged TCF7L1 followed by Mass Spectrome-try in H9-TCF7L1 Human Embryonic Stem Cells	Human Embryonic Stem Cells, Immunoprecipitation, TCF7L1, WNT/beta-CATENIN pathway	Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) resemble the pluripotent epiblast cells found in the early postimplantation human embryo and represent the "primed" state of pluripotency. One factor that helps primed pluripotent cells retain pluripotency and prepare genes for differentiation is the transcription factor TCF7L1, a member of a small family of proteins known as T cell factors/Lymphoid enhancer factors (TCF/LEF) that act as downstream components of the WNT signaling pathway. Transcriptional output of the WNT pathway is regulated, in part, by the activity of TCF/LEFs in conjunction with another component of the WNT pathway, beta-CATENIN. Because TCF7L1 plays an important role in regulating pluripotency, we began to characterize the protein complex associated with TCF7L1 when bound to chromatin in hESCs using rapid immunoprecipitation of endogenous proteins (RIME).  Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD047582. These data identify known and new partners of TCF7L1 on chromatin and provide novel insights into how TCF7L1 and pluripotency itself might be regulated.
PXD050817	38630589	A p85 isoform switch enhances PI3K activation on endosomes by a MAP4- and PI3P-dependent mechanism. 	A p85 Isoform Switch Enhances PI3K Activation on Endosomes by a MAP4- and  PI3P-dependent Mechanism	Akt, MAP4, PI3K, PI3P, endosomes, p110, p85	Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase alpha (PI3Kalpha) is a heterodimer of p110alpha catalytic and p85 adaptor subunits that is activated by agonist-stimulated receptor tyrosine kinases. Although p85alpha recruits p110alpha to activated receptors on membranes, p85alpha loss, which occurs commonly in cancer, paradoxically promotes agonist-stimulated PI3K/Akt signaling. p110alpha localizes to microtubules via microtubule-associated protein 4 (MAP4), facilitating its interaction with activated receptor kinases on endosomes to initiate PI3K/Akt signaling. Here, we demonstrate that in response to agonist stimulation and p85alpha knockdown, the residual p110alpha, coupled predominantly to p85beta, exhibits enhanced recruitment with receptor tyrosine kinases to endosomes. Moreover, the p110alpha C2 domain binds PI3-phosphate, and this interaction is also required to recruit p110alpha to endosomes and for PI3K/Akt signaling. Stable knockdown of p85alpha, which mimics the reduced p85alpha levels observed in cancer, enhances cell growth and tumorsphere formation, and these effects are abrogated by MAP4 or p85beta knockdown, underscoring their role in the tumor-promoting activity of p85alpha loss.
PXD050497	38632280	Comparative proteomic analysis of papaya bud flowers reveals metabolic signatures and pathways driving hermaphrodite development. 	Comparative proteomic analysis between female and hermaphrodite flower buds of papaya (Carica papaya)	floral development, phenylpropanoid, sexual differentiation, sporopollenin biosynthesis.	Papaya (Carica papaya) is a trioecious species with female, male, and hermaphrodite plants. Given the sex segregation, selecting hermaphroditic plants is vital for orchard establishment due to their greater commercial value. However, selecting hermaphrodite plants through sexing is laborious and costly. Moreover, environmental stressors can exacerbate the issue by potentially inducing abnormal flower development, thus affecting fruit quality. Despite these challenges, the molecular mechanisms governing sex development in papaya remain poorly understood. Thus, this study aimed to identify proteins associated with sex development in female and hermaphrodite flowers of papaya through comparative proteomic analysis. Proteins from flower buds at the early and late developmental stages of three papaya genotypes (UENF-CALIMAN 01, JS12, and Sunrise Solo 72/12) were studied via proteomic analysis via the combination of the shotgun method and nanoESI-HDMS(E) technology. In buds at an early stage of development, 496 (35.9%) proteins exhibited significantly different abundances between sexes for the SS72/12 genotype, 139 (10%) for the JS12 genotype, and 165 (11.9%) for the UC-01 genotype. At the final stage of development, there were 181 (13.5%) for SS72/12, 113 (8.4%) for JS12, and 125 (9.1%) for UC-01. The large group of differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) between the sexes was related to metabolism, as shown by the observation of only the proteins that exhibited the same pattern of accumulation in the three genotypes. Specifically, carbohydrate metabolism proteins were up-regulated in hermaphrodite flower buds early in development, while those linked to monosaccharide and amino acid metabolism increased during late development. Enrichment of sporopollenin and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathways characterizes hermaphrodite samples across developmental stages, with predicted protein interactions highlighting the crucial role of phenylpropanoids in sporopollenin biosynthesis for pollen wall formation. Most of the DAPs played key roles in pectin, cellulose, and lignin synthesis and were essential for cell wall formation and male flower structure development, notably in the pollen coat. These findings suggest that hermaphrodite flowers require more energy for development, likely due to complex pollen wall formation. Overall, these insights illuminate the molecular mechanisms of papaya floral development, revealing complex regulatory networks and energetic demands in the formation of male reproductive structures.
PXD043747	38632343	tRNA modification reprogramming contributes to artemisinin resistance in Plasmodium falciparum. 	tRNA modification reprogramming of Plasmodium falciparum as a feature of artemisinin resistance	Artemisinin, Plasmodium, RNA modification	Plasmodium falciparum artemisinin (ART) resistance is driven by mutations in kelch-like protein 13 (PfK13). Quiescence, a key aspect of resistance, may also be regulated by a yet unidentified epigenetic pathway. Transfer RNA modification reprogramming and codon bias translation is a conserved epitranscriptomic translational control mechanism that allows cells to rapidly respond to stress. We report a role for this mechanism in ART-resistant parasites by combining tRNA modification, proteomic and codon usage analyses in ring-stage ART-sensitive and ART-resistant parasites in response to drug. Post-drug, ART-resistant parasites differentially hypomodify mcm(5)s(2)U on tRNA and possess a subset of proteins, including PfK13, that are regulated by Lys codon-biased translation. Conditional knockdown of the terminal s(2)U thiouridylase, PfMnmA, in an ART-sensitive parasite background led to increased ART survival, suggesting that hypomodification can alter the parasite ART response. This study describes an epitranscriptomic pathway via tRNA s(2)U reprogramming that ART-resistant parasites may employ to survive ART-induced stress.
PXD050843	38632996	Long-lived proteins and DNA as candidate predictive biomarkers for tissue associated diseases. 	Long-lived proteins and DNA as candidate predictive biomarkers for tissue associated diseases	Long-lived proteins and DNA, biomarkers, diseases, tissue	Protein turnover is an important mechanism to maintain proteostasis. Long-lived proteins (LLPs) are vulnerable to lose their function due to time-accumulated damages. In this study we employed in vivo stable isotope labeling in mice from birth to postnatal day 89. Quantitative proteomics analysis of ten tissues and plasma identified 2113 LLPs, including widespread and tissue-specific ones. Interestingly, a significant percentage of LLPs was detected in plasma, implying a potential link to age-related cardiovascular diseases. LLPs identified in brains were related to neurodegenerative diseases. In addition, the relative quantification of DNA-derived deoxynucleosides from the same tissues provided information about cellular DNA renewal and showed good correlation with LLPs in the brain. The combined data reveal tissue-specific maps of mouse LLPs that may be involved in pathology due to a low renewal rate and an increased risk of damage. Tissue-derived peripheral LLPs hold promise as biomarkers for aging and age-related diseases.
PXD051064	38635900	The circMYBL2-encoded p185 protein suppresses colorectal cancer progression by inhibiting serine biosynthesis. 	Mass spectrometry identification of proteins pulled down by PHGDH	SW480	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a class of covalently closed single-stranded loop RNAs that have been implicated to play a functional role in almost all types of cancers. Previous studies have revealed that circMYBL2 acts as a tumor-promoting circRNA. Here, we found that circMYBL2 in colorectal cancer (CRC) encodes a 185-amino acid protein, p185. Functionally, circMYBL2-encoded p185 suppressed the growth and aggressiveness of CRC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, p185 counteracted UCHL3-mediated deubiquitination of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) by competitively binding to the C1 domain of UCHL3, resulting in PHGDH degradation and a subsequent reduction in serine and glycine biosynthesis. These data revealed that the circMYBL2-encoded p185 isoform serves as a tumor suppressor to inhibit the progression of CRC by reducing serine biosynthesis.
PXD040354	38636436	Improved synthesis and application of an alkyne-functionalized isoprenoid analogue to study the prenylomes of motor neurons, astrocytes and their stem cell progenitors. 	Improved synthesis and application of an alkyne-functionalized isoprenoid analogue to study the prenylomes of motor neurons, astrocytes  and their stem cell progenitors	ALS, Astrocytes, Chemical enrichment, Neurons, Prenylation	Protein prenylation is one example of a broad class of post-translational modifications where proteins are covalently linked to various hydrophobic moieties. To globally identify and monitor levels of all prenylated proteins in a cell simultaneously, our laboratory and others have developed chemical proteomic approaches that rely on the metabolic incorporation of isoprenoid analogues bearing bio-orthogonal functionality followed by enrichment and subsequent quantitative proteomic analysis. Here, several improvements in the synthesis of the alkyne-containing isoprenoid analogue C15AlkOPP are reported to improve synthetic efficiency. Next, metabolic labeling with C15AlkOPP was optimized to obtain useful levels of metabolic incorporation of the probe in several types of primary cells. Those conditions were then used to study the prenylomes of motor neurons (ES-MNs), astrocytes (ES-As), and their embryonic stem cell progenitors (ESCs), which allowed for the identification of 54 prenylated proteins from ESCs, 50 from ES-MNs, and 84 from ES-As, representing all types of prenylation. Bioinformatic analysis revealed specific enriched pathways, including nervous system development, chemokine signaling, Rho GTPase signaling, and adhesion. Hierarchical clustering showed that most enriched pathways in all three cell types are related to GTPase activity and vesicular transport. In contrast, STRING analysis showed significant interactions in two populations that appear to be cell type dependent. The data provided herein demonstrates that robust incorporation of C15AlkOPP can be obtained in ES-MNs and related primary cells purified via magnetic-activated cell sorting allowing the identification and quantification of numerous prenylated proteins. These results suggest that metabolic labeling with C15AlkOPP should be an effective approach for investigating the role of prenylated proteins in primary cells in both normal cells and disease pathologies, including ALS.
PXD050916	38636661	Restoring retinal polyunsaturated fatty acid balance and retina function by targeting ceramide in AdipoR1 deficient mice. 	Restoring retinal polyunsaturated fatty acid balance and retina function by targeting ceramide in Adiponectin receptor 1 (AdipoR1) deficient mice	Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), lipidomics, retina, retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)	Mutations in the adiponectin receptor 1 gene (AdipoR1) lead to retinitis pigmentosa and are associated with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). This study explores the effects of AdipoR1 gene deficiency in mice, revealing a striking decline in omega3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), an increase in omega6 FAs, and elevated ceramides in the retina. The AdipoR1 deficiency impairs peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) signaling, which is crucial for FA metabolism, particularly affecting proteins associated with FA transport and oxidation in the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE). Our lipidomic and proteomic analyses indicate changes that could affect membrane composition and viscosity through altered omega3 PUFA transport and synthesis, suggesting a potential influence of AdipoR1 on these properties. Furthermore, we noted a reduction in the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) proteins, which are crucial for forming and maintaining photoreceptor outer segments that are PUFA-enriched ciliary structures. Diminution in BBS-proteins content combined with our electron microscopic observations raises the possibility that AdipoR1 deficiency might impair ciliary function. Treatment with inhibitors of ceramide synthesis led to substantial elevation of omega3 LC-PUFAs, alleviating photoreceptor degeneration and improving retinal function. These results serve as the proof of concept for a ceramide-targeted strategy to treat retinopathies linked to PUFA deficiency, including AMD.
PXD043778	38637049	Overcoming the detrimental O-acylation in TMTpro labeling improves the proteome depth and quantification precision. 	Overcoming the detrimental O-acylation in TMTpro labeling improves the proteome depth and quantification precision.	TMTpro	BACKGROUND: With the advent of proline-based reporter isobaric Tandem Mass Tag (TMTpro) reagents, the sample multiplexing capacity of tandem mass tags (TMTs) has been expanded, and up to 18 samples can be quantified in a multiplexed manner. Like classic TMT reagents, TMTpro reagents contain a tertiary amine group, which markedly enhances their reactivity toward hydroxyl groups and results in O-acylation of serine, threonine and tyrosine residues. This overlabeling significantly compromises proteome analysis in terms of depth and precision. In particular, the reactivity of hydroxyl-containing residues can be dramatically enhanced when coexisting with a histidine in the same peptides, leading to a severe systematic bias against the analysis of these peptides. Although some protocols using a reduced molar excess of TMT under alkaline conditions can alleviate overlabeling of histidine-free peptides to some extent, they have a limited effect on histidyl- and hydroxyl-containing peptides. RESULTS: Here, we report a novel TMTpro labeling method that overcomes detrimental overlabeling while providing high labeling efficiency of amines. Additionally, our method is cost-effective, as it requires only half the amount of TMTpro reagents recommended by the reagent manufacturer. In a deep-scale analysis of a yeast/human two-proteome model sample, we compared our method with a typical alkaline labeling method using a reduced molar excess of TMTpro. Even at a depth of over 10,000 proteins, our method detected 23.7% more unique peptides and 8.7% more protein groups compared to the alkaline labeling method. Moreover, our method significantly improved the quantitative precision due to the reduced variability in labeling and increased protein sequence coverage. This substantially enhanced the statistical power of our method for detecting differentially abundant proteins, providing an average of 13% more yeast proteins that reached statistical significance. SIGNIFCANCE: We presented a novel TMTpro labeling method that overcomes the detrimental O-acylation and thus significantly improves the depth and quantitative precision for proteome analysis.
PXD046375	38637076	Bacterial proteome adaptation during fermentation in dairy environments. 	Proteome-wide adaptation of Lactococcus cremoris during growth in milk and during cheese production and ripening	Lactococcus cremoris, Milk, cheese production, dairy fermentation, protein-rich food matrix, starter cultures	The enzymatic repertoire of starter cultures belonging to the Lactococcus genus determines various important characteristics of fermented dairy products but might change in response to the substantial environmental changes in the manufacturing process. Assessing bacterial proteome adaptation in dairy and other food environments is challenging due to the high matrix-protein concentration and is even further complicated in particularly cheese by the high fat concentrations, the semi-solid state of that matrix, and the non-growing state of the bacteria. Here, we present bacterial harvesting and processing procedures that enable reproducible, high-resolution proteome determination in lactococcal cultures harvested from laboratory media, milk, and miniature Gouda cheese. Comparative proteome analysis of Lactococcus cremoris NCDO712 grown in laboratory medium and milk revealed proteome adaptations that predominantly reflect the differential (micro-)nutrient availability in these two environments. Additionally, the drastic environmental changes during cheese manufacturing only elicited subtle changes in the L. cremoris NCDO712 proteome, including modified expression levels of enzymes involved in flavour formation. The technical advances we describe offer novel opportunities to evaluate bacterial proteomes in relation to their performance in complex, protein- and/or fat-rich food matrices and highlight the potential of steering starter culture performance by preculture condition adjustments.
PXD050355	38637505	Structural basis for antiepileptic drugs and botulinum neurotoxin recognition of SV2A. 	Structural basis for antiepileptic drugs and botulinum neurotoxin recognition of SV2A	AED, BoNT, LEV, SV2A	More than one percent of people have epilepsy worldwide. Levetiracetam (LEV) is a successful new-generation antiepileptic drug (AED), and its derivative, brivaracetam (BRV), shows improved efficacy. Synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2a (SV2A), a putative membrane transporter in the synaptic vesicles (SVs), has been identified as a target of LEV and BRV. SV2A also serves as a receptor for botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT), which is the most toxic protein and has paradoxically emerged as a potent reagent for therapeutic and cosmetic applications. Nevertheless, no structural analysis on AEDs and BoNT recognition by full-length SV2A has been available. Here we describe the cryo-electron microscopy structures of the full-length SV2A in complex with the BoNT receptor-binding domain, BoNT/A2 HC, and either LEV or BRV. The large fourth luminal domain of SV2A binds to BoNT/A2 HC through protein-protein and protein-glycan interactions. LEV and BRV occupy the putative substrate-binding site in an outward-open conformation. A propyl group in BRV creates additional contacts with SV2A, explaining its higher binding affinity than that of LEV, which was further supported by label-free spectral shift assay. Numerous LEV derivatives have been developed as AEDs and positron emission tomography (PET) tracers for neuroimaging. Our work provides a structural framework for AEDs and BoNT recognition of SV2A and a blueprint for the rational design of additional AEDs and PET tracers.
PXD039951	38638965	Quantitative proteomics assay reveals G protein-coupled receptor kinase 4-induced HepG2 cell growth inhibition. 	Quantitative Proteomics Assay of G Protein-Coupled Receptor Kinase4 in hepatocellualr carcinoma  Cell Growth	G protein-coupled receptor kinase 4, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Quantitative proteomics	Background and aim: To investigate the biological effects and putative biological mechanism of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 4 (GRK4) on HepG2 cells. Materials and methods: Cell proliferation, cycle, and apoptosis were evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8 and flow cytometry (FCM) in HepG2 cells infected with either the GRK4-overexpressing lentivirus vector (OE) or the negative control lentivirus vector (NC). The protein profiles and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) of the OE and NC cells were analyzed and compared using the quantitative proteomics technique, and their function, expression, and probable mechanism were investigated using bioinformatic assays and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Results: HepG2 cells that received the OE grew more slowly than those that received the NC. FCM revealed that, when compared to the NC cells, the OE cells had undergone S-phase cycle arrest, and neither the OE nor NC cells underwent apoptosis. Among the 7006 proteins that were identified by quantitative proteomics, 403 DEPs were examined based on the filtering parameters, with the expressions of 135 being downregulated and 268 being upregulated. In addition to being involved in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway, the DEPs were implicated in the biological processes of cell proliferation, cycle, and metabolism. PRM verified the expressions of DEPs that were connected to the PPAR pathway. Conclusions: This study shows that GRK4 prevents HepG2 cells from proliferating and causes cell cycle arrest in the S-phase, while the PPAR pathway is involved in the regulation of HepG2 cells via GRK4.
PXD042715	38639920	Potential functionality of Cutibacterium acnes extracellular vesicles in atopic dermatitis and acne vulgaris: A comparative proteomic analysis. 	Potential Functionality of Cutibacterium acnes Extracellular Vesicles in Atopic Dermatitis and Acne Vulgaris: A Comparative Proteomic Analysis	Cutibacterium acnes, acne vulgaris, atopic dermatitis, extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND: Cutibacterium acnes is a commensal bacterium residing in healthy skin and plays a critical role in maintaining skin homeostasis. C. acnes has been considered closely related to acne vulgaris, while recent studies suggest that C. acnes and its metabolites may have a protective role in atopic dermatitis (AD) by modulating the immune system and maintaining skin homeostasis. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are small membranous vesicles secreted by bacteria that participate in bacteria-host interactions. METHODS: This study first compared C. acnes EVs from AD lesions (AD-EVs), acne lesions (Acne-EVs), and healthy skin (NC-EVs), using Label-free quantitative LC-MS/MS and validated differently expressed proteins by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Then Normal Human Epidermal Keratinocytes (NHEK) and human primary keratinocytes (KC) were treated with C. acnes EVs isolated from different groups, and the expressions of inflammatory factors were measured by quantitative real-time PCR and Western blotting. RESULTS: Compared with the acne group, the AD group showed greater downregulation of proteins related to energy metabolism and carbon source utilization pathway. Differences in protein profile in AD and acne lesion-separated C. acnes EVs correspond to the abnormal sebum secretion pattern in both diseases. C. acnes EVs from different groups affected different expressions of Th1 and Th2 inflammatory factors and epidermal barrier markers in NHEK and KC, indicating different immunomodulatory potentials. CONCLUSIONS: This study observed distinct proteomic differences between AD-EVs and Acne-EVs, and provided insights into the functional differences of C. acnes EVs in AD and acne.
PXD049146	38641226	Proteome, lysine acetylome and succinylome identify post-translational modification of STAT1 as a novel drug target in silicosis. 	Proteome, lysine acetylome and succinylome identify post-translational modification of STAT1 as a novel drug target in silicosis	acetylome, lysine, silicosis, succinylome	Inhalation of crystalline silica dust induces incurable lung damage, silicosis and pulmonary fibrosis. However, the mechanisms of the lung injury remain poorly understood, with limited therapeutic options aside from lung transplantation. Post-translational modifications can regulate the function of proteins and play an important role in studying disease mechanisms. To investigate changes in post-translational modifications of proteins in silicosis, combined quantitative proteome, acetylome, and succinylome analyses were performed with lung tissues from silica-injured and healthy mice using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Combined analysis was applied to the three omics datasets to construct a protein landscape. The acetylation and succinylation of the key transcription factor STAT1 were found to play important roles in the silica-induced pathophysiological changes. Modulating the acetylation level of STAT1 with geranylgeranylacetone (GGA) effectively inhibited the progression of silicosis. This report revealed a comprehensive landscape of post-translational modifications in silica-injured mouse, presented a novel therapeutic strategy targeting the post-translational level for silica-induced lung diseases.
PXD044735	38641995	Biallelic loss-of-function variants of ZFTRAF1 cause neurodevelopmental disorder with microcephaly and hypotonia. 	Biallelic loss-of-function variants of ZFTRAF1 cause neurodevelopmental disorder with microcephaly and hypotonia by impairing autophagy	Autophagy, Microcephaly, ZFTRAF1	PURPOSE: Neurodevelopmental disorders exhibit clinical and genetic heterogeneity, ergo manifest dysfunction in components of diverse cellular pathways; the precise pathomechanism for the majority remains elusive. METHODS: We studied five affected individuals from three unrelated families manifesting global developmental delay, postnatal microcephaly, and hypotonia. We employed exome sequencing and prioritized variants that were subsequently characterized using immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, pulldown assays, and RNA sequencing. RESULTS: We identified biallelic variants in ZFTRAF1, encoding a protein of yet unknown function. Four affected individuals from two unrelated families segregated two homozygous frameshift variants in ZFTRAF1, whereas, in the third family, an intronic splice site variant was detected. We investigated ZFTRAF1 at the cellular level and signified it as a nucleocytoplasmic protein in different human cell lines. ZFTRAF1 was completely absent in the fibroblasts of two affected individuals. We also identified 110 interacting proteins enriched in mRNA processing and autophagy-related pathways. Based on profiling of autophagy markers, patient-derived fibroblasts show irregularities in the protein degradation process. CONCLUSION: Thus, our findings suggest that biallelic variants of ZFTRAF1 cause a severe neurodevelopmental disorder.
PXD024355	38643192	N4BP1 functions as a dimerization-dependent linear ubiquitin reader which regulates TNF signalling. 	N4BP1 is a unique, dimerization-dependent linear ubiquitin reader that regulates TNFR1 signalling through linear ubiquitin binding and Caspase-8-dependent processing	Caspase 8, N4BP1, proteolytic processing	Signalling through TNFR1 modulates proinflammatory gene transcription and programmed cell death, and its impairment causes autoimmune diseases and cancer. NEDD4-binding protein 1 (N4BP1) is a critical suppressor of proinflammatory cytokine production that acts as a regulator of innate immune signalling and inflammation. However, our current understanding about the molecular properties that enable N4BP1 to exert its suppressive potential remain limited. Here, we show that N4BP1 is a novel linear ubiquitin reader that negatively regulates NFkappaB signalling by its unique dimerization-dependent ubiquitin-binding module that we named LUBIN. Dimeric N4BP1 strategically positions two non-selective ubiquitin-binding domains to ensure preferential recognition of linear ubiquitin. Under proinflammatory conditions, N4BP1 is recruited to the nascent TNFR1 signalling complex, where it regulates duration of proinflammatory signalling in LUBIN-dependent manner. N4BP1 deficiency accelerates TNFalpha-induced cell death by increasing complex II assembly. Under proapoptotic conditions, caspase-8 mediates proteolytic processing of N4BP1, resulting in rapid degradation of N4BP1 by the 26 S proteasome, and acceleration of apoptosis. In summary, our findings demonstrate that N4BP1 dimerization creates a novel type of ubiquitin reader that selectively recognises linear ubiquitin which enables the timely and coordinated regulation of TNFR1-mediated inflammation and cell death.
PXD045074	38644352	The tumour-derived extracellular vesicle proteome varies by endometrial cancer histology and is confounded by an obesogenic environment. 	The tumour-derived extracellular vesicle proteome varies by endometrial cancer histology and is confounded by an obesogenic environment	SWATH, biomarkers, endometrial cancer, extracellular vesicles, secretome	Endometrial cancer, the most common gynaecological cancer worldwide, is closely linked to obesity and metabolic diseases, particularly in younger women. New circulating biomarkers have the potential to improve diagnosis and treatment selections, which could significantly improve outcomes. Our approach focuses on extracellular vesicle (EV) biomarker discovery by directly profiling the proteome of EVs enriched from frozen biobanked endometrial tumours. We analysed nine tissue samples to compare three clinical subgroups-low BMI (Body Mass Index) Endometrioid, high BMI Endometrioid, and Serous (any BMI)-identifying proteins related to histological subtype, BMI, and shared secreted proteins. Using collagenase digestion and size exclusion chromatography, we successfully enriched generous quantities of EVs (range 204.8-1291.0 microg protein: 1.38 x 10(11)-1.10 x 10(12) particles), characterised by their size (~150 nm), expression of EV markers (CD63/81), and proposed endometrial cancer markers (L1CAM, ANXA2). Mass spectrometry-based proteomic profiling identified 2075 proteins present in at least one of the 18 samples. Compared to cell lysates, EVs were successfully depleted for mitochondrial and blood proteins and enriched for common EV markers and large secreted proteins. Further analysis highlighted significant differences in EV protein profiles between the high BMI subgroup and others, underlining the impact of comorbidities on the EV secretome. Interestingly, proteins differentially abundant in tissue subgroups were largely not also differential in matched EVs. This research identified secreted proteins known to be involved in endometrial cancer pathophysiology and proposed novel diagnostic biomarkers (EIF6, MUC16, PROM1, SLC26A2).
PXD048373	38644369	Dynamics of CD44(+) bovine nucleus pulposus cells with inflammation. 	Dissecting inflammatory response in intervertebral disc degeneration: triggering of CD44 by IL-1beta	CD44, IL-1beta, inflammation, intervertebral disc, nucleus pulposus	Intervertebral Disc (IVD) degeneration has been associated with a chronic inflammatory response, but knowledge on the contribution of distinct IVD cells, namely CD44, to the progression of IVD degeneration remains elusive. Here, bovine nucleus pulposus (NP) CD44 cells were sorted and compared by gene expression and proteomics with the negative counterpart. NP cells were then stimulated with IL-1b (10 ng/ml) and dynamics of CD44 gene and protein expression was analyzed upon pro-inflammatory treatment. The results emphasize that CD44 has a multidimensional functional role in IVD metabolism, ECM synthesis and production of neuropermissive factors. CD44 widespread expression in NP was partially associated with CD14 and CD45, resulting in the identification of distinct cell subsets. In conclusion, this study points out CD44 and CD44-based cell subsets as relevant targets in the modulation of the IVD pro-inflammatory/degenerative cascade.
PXD041940	38644792	Role of the Putative Histidine Kinase BP1092 in Bordetella pertussis Virulence Regulation and Intracellular Survival. 	Proteome data of a BP1092 mutant of Bordetella pertussis	BP1092, Bordetella pertussis, virulence factors	Bordetella pertussis persists inside host cells, and virulence factors are crucial for intracellular adaptation. The regulation of B. pertussis virulence factor transcription primarily occurs through the modulation of the two-component system (TCS) known as BvgAS. However, additional regulatory systems have emerged as potential contributors to virulence regulation. Here, we investigate the impact of BP1092, a putative TCS histidine kinase that shows increased levels after bacterial internalization by macrophages, on B. pertussis proteome adaptation under nonmodulating (Bvg+) and modulating (Bvg-) conditions. Using mass spectrometry, we compare B. pertussis wild-type (wt), a BP1092-deficient mutant (DeltaBP1092), and a DeltaBP1092 trans-complemented strain under both conditions. We find an altered abundance of 10 proteins, including five virulence factors. Specifically, under nonmodulating conditions, the mutant strain showed decreased levels of FhaB, FhaS, and Cya compared to the wt. Conversely, under modulating conditions, the mutant strain exhibited reduced levels of BvgA and BvgS compared to those of the wt. Functional assays further revealed that the deletion of BP1092 gene impaired B. pertussis ability to survive within human macrophage THP-1 cells. Taken together, our findings allow us to propose BP1092 as a novel player involved in the intricate regulation of B. pertussis virulence factors and thus in adaptation to the intracellular environment. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD041940.
PXD047442	38644795	Selective Hypoxia-Sensitive Oxomer Formation by FIH Prevents Binding of the NF-kappaB Inhibitor IkappaBbeta to NF-kappaB Subunits. 	Selective hypoxia-sensitive oxomer formation by FIH prevents binding of the NF-kB inhibitor IkB to NF-?B subunits	HIF, HIF1AN, hydroxylase inhibitor, inflammation, oxygen sensor	Pharmacologic inhibitors of cellular hydroxylase oxygen sensors are protective in multiple preclinical in vivo models of inflammation. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this regulation are only partly understood, preventing clinical translation. We previously proposed a new mechanism for cellular oxygen sensing: oxygen-dependent, (likely) covalent protein oligomer (oxomer) formation. Here, we report that the oxygen sensor factor inhibiting HIF (FIH) forms an oxomer with the NF-kappaB inhibitor beta (IkappaBbeta). The formation of this protein complex required FIH enzymatic activity and was prevented by pharmacologic inhibitors. Oxomer formation was highly hypoxia-sensitive and very stable. No other member of the IkappaB protein family formed an oxomer with FIH, demonstrating that FIH-IkappaBbeta oxomer formation was highly selective. In contrast to the known FIH-dependent oxomer formation with the deubiquitinase OTUB1, FIH-IkappaBbeta oxomer formation did not occur via an IkappaBbeta asparagine residue, but depended on the amino acid sequence VAERR contained within a loop between IkappaBbeta ankyrin repeat domains 2 and 3. Oxomer formation prevented IkappaBbeta from binding to its primary interaction partners p65 and c-Rel, subunits of NF-kappaB, the master regulator of the cellular transcriptional response to pro-inflammatory stimuli. We therefore propose that FIH-mediated oxomer formation with IkappaBbeta contributes to the hypoxia-dependent regulation of inflammation.
PXD050256	38645096	Analysis of endogenous NOTCH1 from POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts reveals the importance of the O -fucose modification on EGF12 in human development. 	Analysis of endogenous NOTCH1 from POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts reveals the importance of the O-fucose modification on EGF12 in human development	NOTCH1, O-fucose, POFUT1	NOTCH1 (N1) is a transmembrane receptor interacting with membrane-tethered ligands on opposing cells that mediate the direct cell-cell interaction necessary for many cell fate decisions. Protein O -fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) adds O -fucose to Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF)-like repeats in the NOTCH1 extracellular domain, which is required for trafficking and signaling activation. We previously showed that POFUT1 S162L caused a 90% loss of POFUT1 activity and global developmental defects in a patient; however, the mechanism by which POFUT1 contributes to these symptoms is still unclear. Compared to controls, POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblast cells had an equivalent amount of N1 on the cell surface but showed a 60% reduction of DLL1 ligand binding and a 70% reduction in JAG1 ligand binding. To determine if the reduction of O -fucose on N1 in POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts was the cause of these effects, we immunopurified endogenous N1 from control and patient fibroblasts and analyzed O -fucosylation using mass spectral glycoproteomics methods. N1 EGF8 to EGF12 comprise the ligand binding domain, and O -fucose on EGF8 and EGF12 physically interact with ligands to enhance affinity. Glycoproteomics of N1 from POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts showed WT fucosylation levels at all sites analyzed except for a large decrease at EGF9 and the complete absence of O -fucose at EGF12. Since the loss of O -fucose on EGF12 is known to have significant effects on N1 activity, this may explain the symptoms observed in the POFUT1 S162L patient.
PXD028932	38645677	ATP5O Hypo-crotonylation Caused by HDAC2 Hyper-Phosphorylation Is a Primary Detrimental Factor for Downregulated Phospholipid Metabolism under Chronic Stress. 	TMT-labeled quantitative phosphoproteomics of mouse ovaries-Chronic resistant stress (CRS), High salt (HS), Arecoline and control group, two repeats each	Arecoline, Chronic resistant stress, High salt, mouse ovaries, quantitative phosphoproteomics	Objective. Chronic stress (CS)-induced abnormal metabolism and other subsequent aspects of abnormality are threatening human health. Little is known regarding whether and how protein post-translational-modifications (PTMs) correlate with abnormal metabolism under CS. The aim of this study was to address this issue and also identify novel key protein PTM. Methods. First, we screened which pan-PTM had significant change between control and CS female mice and whether clinical CS females had similar pan-PTM change. Second, we performed quantitative PTM-omics and metabolomics to verify the correlation between abnormal protein PTMs and atypical metabolism. Third, we performed quantitative phospho-omics to identify the key PTM-regulating enzyme and investigate the interaction between PTM protein and PTM-regulating enzyme. Fourth, we attempted to rectify the abnormal metabolism by correcting the activity of the PTM-regulating enzyme. Finally, we examined whether the selected key protein was also correlated with stress scores and atypical metabolism in clinical women. Results. We initially found that multiple tissues of CS female mice have downregulated pan-crotonylation, and verified that the plasma of clinical CS females also had downregulated pan-crotonylation. Then we determined that ATP5O-K51 crotonylation decreased the most and also caused gross ATP5O decrement, whereas the plasma of CS mice had downregulated phospholipids. Next, downregulating ATP5O crotonylation partially recapitulated the downregulated phospholipid metabolism in CS mice. Next, we verified that HDAC2-S424 phosphorylation determined its decrotonylation activity on ATP5O-K51. Furthermore, correcting HDAC2 hyper-phosphorylation recovered the gross ATP5O level and partially rescued the downregulated phospholipid metabolism in CS mice. Finally, the ATP5O level was also significantly lower and correlated with high stress scores and downregulated phospholipid metabolism in clinical female plasma. Conclusion. This study discovered a novel PTM mechanism involving two distinct types of PTM in CS and provided a novel reference for the clinical precautions and treatments of CS.
PXD045061	38647704	Global profiling of protein S-palmitoylation in the second-generation merozoites of Eimeria tenella. 	Global profiling of protein S-palmitoylation in the second-generation merozoites of Eimeria tenella	Biological process, E. tenella, Palmitoylation, The second-generation merozoites	The intracellular protozoan Eimeria tenella is responsible for avian coccidiosis which is characterized by host intestinal damage. During developmental cycle, E. tenella undergoes versatile transitional stages such as oocyst, sporozoites, merozoites, and gametocytes. These developmental transitions involve changes in cell shape and cell size requiring cytoskeletal remodeling and changes in membrane proteins, which may require transcriptional and translational regulations as well as post-translational modification of proteins. Palmitoylation is a post-translational modification (PTM) of protein that orchestrates protein targeting, folding, stability, regulated enzymatic activity and even epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Previous research revealed that protein palmitoylation play essential role in Toxoplasma gondii, Trypanosoma cruzi, Trichomonas vaginalis, and several Plasmodium parasites. Until now, there is little information on the enzymes related to palmitoylation and role of protein acylation or palmitoylation in E. tenella. Therefore, palmitome of the second-generation merozoite of E. tenella was investigated. We identified a total of 2569 palmitoyl-sites that were assigned to 2145 palmitoyl-peptides belonging to 1561 protein-groups that participated in biological processes including parasite morphology, motility and host cell invasion. In addition, RNA biosynthesis, protein biosynthesis, folding, proteasome-ubiquitin degradation, and enzymes involved in PTMs, carbohydrate metabolism, glycan biosynthesis, and mitochondrial respiratory chain as well as vesicle trafficking were identified. The study allowed us to decipher the broad influence of palmitoylation in E. tenella biology, and its potential roles in the pathobiology of E. tenella infection. Raw data are publicly available at iProX with the dataset identifier PXD045061.
PXD046795	38648465	Rhodopsin mislocalization drives ciliary dysregulation in a novel autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa knock-in mouse model. 	Proteome analysis of the retina from RhoQ344X/+ mouse	retina	Rhodopsin mislocalization encompasses various blind conditions. Rhodopsin mislocalization is the primary factor leading to rod photoreceptor dysfunction and degeneration in autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (adRP) caused by class I mutations. In this study, we report a new knock-in mouse model that harbors a class I Q344X mutation in the endogenous rhodopsin gene, which causes rod photoreceptor degeneration in an autosomal dominant pattern. In Rho(Q344X/+) mice, mRNA transcripts from the wild-type (Rho) and Rho(Q344X) mutant rhodopsin alleles are expressed at equal levels. However, the amount of RHO(Q344X) mutant protein is 2.7 times lower than that of wild-type rhodopsin, a finding consistent with the rapid degradation of the mutant protein. Immunofluorescence microscopy indicates that RHO(Q344X) is mislocalized to the inner segment and outer nuclear layers of rod photoreceptors in both Rho(Q344X/+) and Rho(Q344X/Q344X) mice, confirming the essential role of the C-terminal VxPx motif in promoting OS delivery of rhodopsin. The mislocalization of RHO(Q344X) is associated with the concurrent mislocalization of wild-type rhodopsin in Rho(Q344X/+) mice. To understand the global changes in proteostasis, we conducted quantitative proteomics analysis and found attenuated expression of rod-specific OS membrane proteins accompanying reduced expression of ciliopathy causative gene products, including constituents of BBSome and axonemal dynein subunit. Those studies unveil a novel negative feedback regulation involving ciliopathy-associated proteins. In this process, a defect in the trafficking signal leads to a reduced quantity of the trafficking apparatus, culminating in a widespread reduction in the transport of ciliary proteins.
PXD050178	38649411	Phage defence system CBASS is regulated by a prokaryotic E2 enzyme that imitates the ubiquitin pathway. 	A prokaryotic E2 enzyme imitates the ubiquitin pathway to regulate the antiviral cGAS	CABSS, cGAS, cGASylation	The cyclic-oligonucleotide-based anti-phage signalling system (CBASS) is a type of innate prokaryotic immune system. Composed of a cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) and CBASS-associated proteins, CBASS uses cyclic oligonucleotides to activate antiviral immunity. One major class of CBASS contains a homologue of eukaryotic ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, which is either an E1-E2 fusion or a single E2. However, the functions of single E2s in CBASS remain elusive. Here, using biochemical, genetic, cryo-electron microscopy and mass spectrometry investigations, we discover that the E2 enzyme from Serratia marcescens regulates cGAS by imitating the ubiquitination cascade. This includes the processing of the cGAS C terminus, conjugation of cGAS to a cysteine residue, ligation of cGAS to a lysine residue, cleavage of the isopeptide bond and poly-cGASylation. The poly-cGASylation activates cGAS to produce cGAMP, which acts as an antiviral signal and leads to cell death. Thus, our findings reveal a unique regulatory role of E2 in CBASS.
PXD044377	38649864	COVID-19 increases extracorporeal coagulation during hemodialysis associated with upregulation of vWF/FBLN5 signaling in patients with severe/critical symptoms. 	COVID-19 increases extracorporeal coagulation during hemodialysis through upregulation of vWF/FBNL5 signaling	anticoagulant, blood clots, coagulation, hemodialysis, newcoronavirus-19	BACKGROUND: COVID-19 has been shown to increase the risk of extracorporeal coagulation during hemodialysis in patients, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effect and mechanism of COVID-19 on the risk of extracorporeal coagulation in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing hemodialysis. METHODS: A retrospective analysis of the extracorporeal coagulation status of 339 hemodialysis patients at our center before and after COVID-19 infection was performed, including subgroup analyses. Post-infection blood composition was analyzed by protein spectrometry and ELISA. RESULTS: Compared to the pre-COVID-19 infection period, COVID-19-induced extracorporeal coagulation predominantly occurred in patients with severe/critical symptoms. Further proteomic analysis demonstrated that in patients with severe/critical symptoms, the coagulation cascade reaction, platelet activation, inflammation, and oxidative stress-related pathways were significantly amplified compared to those in patients with no/mild symptoms. Notably, the vWF/FBLN5 pathway, which is associated with inflammation, vascular injury, and coagulation, was significantly upregulated. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with severe/critical COVID-19 symptoms are at a higher risk of extracorporeal coagulation during hemodialysis, which is associated with the upregulation of the vWF/FBLN5 signaling pathway. These findings highlight the importance of early anticoagulant therapy initiation in COVID-19 patients with severe/critical symptoms, particularly those undergoing hemodialysis. Additionally, vWF/FBLN5 upregulation may be a novel mechanism for virus-associated thrombosis/coagulation.
PXD042723	38650989	Bacterial symbionts in oral niche use type VI secretion nanomachinery for fitness increase against pathobionts. 	Bacterial symbionts use a type VI secretion system for fitness increase against pathobionts	Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Aggregatibacter aphrophilus, T6SS	Microbial ecosystems experience spatial and nutrient restrictions leading to the coevolution of cooperation and competition among cohabiting species. To increase their fitness for survival, bacteria exploit machinery to antagonizing rival species upon close contact. As such, the bacterial type VI secretion system (T6SS) nanomachinery, typically expressed by pathobionts, can transport proteins directly into eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells, consequently killing cohabiting competitors. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that oral symbiont Aggregatibacter aphrophilus possesses a T6SS and can eliminate its close relative oral pathobiont Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans using its T6SS. These findings bring nearer the anti-bacterial prospects of symbionts against cohabiting pathobionts while introducing the presence of an active T6SS in the oral cavity.
PXD045998	38651221	Proteogenomic Gene Structure Validation in the Pineapple Genome. 	Proteogenomics Pipeline For Pineapple	MaxQuant, Orbitrap Elite, Pineapple	MD2 pineapple (Ananas comosus) is the second most important tropical crop that preserves crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM), which has high water-use efficiency and is fast becoming the most consumed fresh fruit worldwide. Despite the significance of environmental efficiency and popularity, until very recently, its genome sequence has not been determined and a high-quality annotated proteome has not been available. Here, we have undertaken a pilot proteogenomic study, analyzing the proteome of MD2 pineapple leaves using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), which validates 1781 predicted proteins in the annotated F153 (V3) genome. In addition, a further 603 peptide identifications are found that map exclusively to an independent MD2 transcriptome-derived database but are not found in the standard F153 (V3) annotated proteome. Peptide identifications derived from these MD2 transcripts are also cross-referenced to a more recent and complete MD2 genome annotation, resulting in 402 nonoverlapping peptides, which in turn support 30 high-quality gene candidates novel to both pineapple genomes. Many of the validated F153 (V3) genes are also supported by an independent proteomics data set collected for an ornamental pineapple variety. The contigs and peptides have been mapped to the current F153 genome build and are available as bed files to display a custom gene track on the Ensembl Plants region viewer. These analyses add to the knowledge of experimentally validated pineapple genes and demonstrate the utility of transcript-derived proteomics to discover both novel genes and genetic structure in a plant genome, adding value to its annotation.
PXD041470	38651371	Comprehensive Proteome Profiling of a Xanthomonas campestris pv. Campestris B100 Culture Grown in Minimal Medium with a Specific Focus on Nutrient Consumption and Xanthan Biosynthesis. 	Comprehensive proteome profiling of a Xanthomonas campestris pv campestris B100 culture grown in a minimal medium with a specific focus on nutrient consumption and xanthan biosynthesis	Bacterial proteome, Quantitative proteomics, Time course, Xanthan fermentation, Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris B100	Xanthan, a bacterial polysaccharide, is widespread in industrial applications, particularly as a food additive. However, little is known about the process of xanthan synthesis on the proteome level, even though Xanthomonas campestris is frequently used for xanthan fermentation. A label-free LC-MS/MS method was employed to study the protein changes during xanthan fermentation in minimal medium. According to the reference database, 2416 proteins were identified, representing 54.75 % of the proteome. The study examined changes in protein abundances concerning the growth phase and xanthan productivity. Throughout the experiment, changes in nitrate concentration appeared to affect the abundance of most proteins involved in nitrogen metabolism, except Gdh and GlnA. Proteins involved in sugar nucleotide metabolism stay unchanged across all growth phases. Apart from GumD, GumB, and GumC, the gum proteins showed no significant changes throughout the experiment. GumD, the first enzyme in the assembly of the xanthan-repeating unit, peaked during the early stationary phase but decreased during the late stationary phase. GumB and GumC, which are involved in exporting xanthan, increased significantly during the stationary phase. This study suggests that a potential bottleneck for xanthan productivity does not reside in the abundance of proteins directly involved in the synthesis pathways.
PXD040226	38652110	Proteomic studies in VWA1-related neuromyopathy allowed new pathophysiological insights and the definition of blood biomarkers. 	Proteomic studies in VWA1-related neuromyopathy allowed new pathophysiological insights and the definition of blood biomarkers	BET1, HNRNPDL, NEFM, PHGDH, white blood cell proteomics	Bi-allelic variants in VWA1, encoding Von Willebrand Factor A domain containing 1 protein localized to the extracellular matrix (ECM), were linked to a neuromuscular disorder with manifestation in child- or adulthood. Clinical findings indicate a neuromyopathy presenting with muscle weakness. Given that pathophysiological processes are still incompletely understood, and biomarkers are still missing, we aimed to identify blood biomarkers of pathophysiological relevance: white blood cells (WBC) and plasma derived from six VWA1-patients were investigated by proteomics. Four proteins, BET1, HNRNPDL, NEFM and PHGDH, known to be involved in neurological diseases and dysregulated in WBC were further validated by muscle-immunostainings unravelling HNRNPDL as a protein showing differences between VWA1-patients, healthy controls and patients suffering from neurogenic muscular atrophy and BICD2-related neuromyopathy. Immunostaining studies of PHGDH indicate its involvement in apoptotic processes via co-localisation with caspase-3. NEFM showed an increase in cells within the ECM in biopsies of all patients studied. Plasma proteomics unravelled dysregulation of 15 proteins serving as biomarker candidates among which a profound proportion of increased ones (6/11) are mostly related to antioxidative processes and have even partially been described as blood biomarkers for other entities of neuromuscular disorders before. CRP elevated in plasma also showed an increase in the extracellular space of VWA1-mutant muscle. Results of our combined studies for the first time describe pathophysiologically relevant biomarkers for VWA1-related neuromyopathy and suggest that VWA1-patient derived blood might hold the potential to study disease processes of clinical relevance, an important aspect for further preclinical studies.
PXD043214	38654040	RAPID resistance to BET inhibitors is mediated by FGFR1 in glioblastoma. 	RAPID RESISTANCE TO BET INHIBITORS IS MEDIATED BY FGFR1 IN GLIOBLASTOMA	BET Inhibitor, FGFR1, Glioblastoma	Bromodomain and extra-terminal domain (BET) proteins are therapeutic targets in several cancers including the most common malignant adult brain tumor glioblastoma (GBM). Multiple small molecule inhibitors of BET proteins have been utilized in preclinical and clinical studies. Unfortunately, BET inhibitors have not shown efficacy in clinical trials enrolling GBM patients. One possible reason for this may stem from resistance mechanisms that arise after prolonged treatment within a clinical setting. However, the mechanisms and timeframe of resistance to BET inhibitors in GBM is not known. To identify the temporal order of resistance mechanisms in GBM we performed quantitative proteomics using multiplex-inhibitor bead mass spectrometry and demonstrated that intrinsic resistance to BET inhibitors in GBM treatment occurs rapidly within hours and involves the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) protein. Additionally, small molecule inhibition of BET proteins and FGFR1 simultaneously induces synergy in reducing GBM tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Further, FGFR1 knockdown synergizes with BET inhibitor mediated reduction of GBM cell proliferation. Collectively, our studies suggest that co-targeting BET and FGFR1 may dampen resistance mechanisms to yield a clinical response in GBM.
PXD041531	38654109	P4HA2 activates mTOR via hydroxylation and targeting P4HA2-mTOR inhibits lung adenocarcinoma cell growth. 	Prolyl 4-hydroxylase alpha-2 directly activates mTOR kinase	HEK293, MS, P4HA2, hydroxylation, mTOR	Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase functions as a central regulator of cell growth and metabolism, and its complexes mTORC1 and mTORC2 phosphorylate distinct substrates. Dysregulation of mTOR signaling is commonly implicated in human diseases, including cancer. Despite three decades of active research in mTOR, much remains to be determined. Here, we demonstrate that prolyl 4-hydroxylase alpha-2 (P4HA2) binds directly to mTOR and hydroxylates one highly conserved proline 2341 (P2341) within a kinase domain of mTOR, thereby activating mTOR kinase and downstream effector proteins (e.g. S6K and AKT). Moreover, the hydroxylation of P2341 strengthens mTOR stability and allows mTOR to accurately recognize its substrates such as S6K and AKT. The growth of lung adenocarcinoma cells overexpressing mTOR(P2341A) is significantly reduced when compared with that of cells overexpressing mTOR(WT). Interestingly, in vivo cell growth assays show that targeting P4HA2-mTOR significantly suppresses lung adenocarcinoma cell growth. In summary, our study reveals an undiscovered hydroxylation-regulatory mechanism by which P4HA2 directly activates mTOR kinase, providing insights for therapeutically targeting mTOR kinase-driven cancers.
PXD045277	38654427	Broadening the Utility of Farnesyltransferase-Catalyzed Protein Labeling Using Norbornene-Tetrazine Click Chemistry. 	Broadening the Utility of Farnesyltransferase-Catalyzed Protein Labeling Using Norbornene-Tetrazine Click Chemistry	Click Chemistry, LFQ, Prenylation	Bioorthogonal chemistry has gained widespread use in the study of many biological systems of interest, including protein prenylation. Prenylation is a post-translational modification, in which one or two 15- or 20-carbon isoprenoid chains are transferred onto cysteine residues near the C-terminus of a target protein. The three main enzymes-protein farnesyltransferase (FTase), geranylgeranyl transferase I (GGTase I), and geranylgeranyl transferase II (GGTase II)-that catalyze this process have been shown to tolerate numerous structural modifications in the isoprenoid substrate. This feature has previously been exploited to transfer an array of farnesyl diphosphate analogues with a range of functionalities, including an alkyne-containing analogue for copper-catalyzed bioconjugation reactions. Reported here is the synthesis of an analogue of the isoprenoid substrate embedded with norbornene functionality (C10NorOPP) that can be used for an array of applications, ranging from metabolic labeling to selective protein modification. The probe was synthesized in seven steps with an overall yield of 7% and underwent an inverse electron demand Diels-Alder (IEDDA) reaction with tetrazine-containing tags, allowing for copper-free labeling of proteins. The use of C10NorOPP for the study of prenylation was explored in the metabolic labeling of prenylated proteins in HeLa, COS-7, and astrocyte cells. Furthermore, in HeLa cells, these modified prenylated proteins were identified and quantified using label-free quantification (LFQ) proteomics with 25 enriched prenylated proteins. Additionally, the unique chemistry of C10NorOPP was utilized for the construction of a multiprotein-polymer conjugate for the targeted labeling of cancer cells. That construct was prepared using a combination of norbornene-tetrazine conjugation and azide-alkyne cycloaddition, highlighting the utility of the additional degree of orthogonality for the facile assembly of new protein conjugates with novel structures and functions.
PXD040419	38655200	Sequential trypsin and ProAlanase digestions unearth immunological protein biomarkers shrouded by skeletal collagen. 	Ancient palaeoimmunology: diving deeper with a two enzyme proteomics approach	Ancient proteins, immune response, leprosy, paleoimmunoproteomics	This study investigates the efficacy of proteomic analysis of human remains to identify active infections in the past through the detection of pathogens and the host response to infection. We advance leprosy as a case study due to the sequestering of sufferers in leprosaria and the suggestive skeletal lesions that can result from the disease. Here we present a sequential enzyme extraction protocol, using trypsin followed by ProAlanase, to reduce the abundance of collagen peptides and in so doing increase the detection of non-collagenous proteins. Through our study of five individuals from an 11th to 18th century leprosarium, as well as four from a contemporaneous non-leprosy associated cemetery in Barcelona, we show that samples from 2 out of 5 leprosarium individuals extracted with the sequential digestion methodology contain numerous host immune proteins associated with modern leprosy. In contrast, individuals from the non-leprosy associated cemetery and all samples extracted with a trypsin-only protocol did not. Through this study, we advance a palaeoproteomic methodology to gain insights into the health of archaeological individuals and take a step toward a proteomics-based method to study immune responses in past populations.
PXD048687	38655769	Spatial Proteomics Reveals Alcohol-Induced Damages to the Crypts and Villi of the Mouse Small Intestine. 	Spatial proteomics mouse intestine	DIA proteomics, alcohol, crypts, villi	Alcohol consumption perturbs the gut immune barrier and ultimately results in alcoholic liver diseases, but little is known about how immune-related cells in the gut are perturbed in this process. In this study, we employed laser capture microdissection and a label-free proteomics approach to investigate the consequences of alcohol exposure to the proteomes of crypts and villi in the proximal small intestine. Intestinal tissues from alcohol-fed and pair-fed mice were microdissected to selectively capture cells in the crypts and villi regions, followed by one-pot protein digestion and data-independent LC-MS/MS analysis. We successfully identified over 3000 proteins from each of the crypt or villi regions equivalent to ~3000 cells. Analysis of alcohol-treated tissues indicated an enhanced alcohol metabolism and reduced levels of alpha-defensins in crypts, alongside increased lipid metabolism and apoptosis in villi. Immunofluorescence imaging further corroborated the proteomic findings. Our work provides a detailed profiling of the proteomic changes in the compartments of the mouse small intestine and aids in molecular-level understanding of alcohol-induced tissue damage.
PXD048168	38655860	Establishing Personalized Blood Protein Reference Ranges Using Noninvasive Microsampling and Targeted Proteomics: Implications for Antidoping Strategies. 	Establishing personalized blood protein reference ranges using non-invasive microsampling and targeted proteomics: Implications for anti-doping strategies	DBS, athletes, doping, longitudinal blood profiling, targeted proteomics	To prevent doping practices in sports, the World Anti-Doping Agency implemented the Athlete Biological Passport (ABP) program, monitoring biological variables over time to indirectly reveal the effects of doping rather than detect the doping substance or the method itself. In the context of this program, a highly multiplexed mass spectrometry-based proteomics assay for 319 peptides corresponding to 250 proteins was developed, including proteins associated with blood-doping practices. "Baseline" expression profiles of these potential biomarkers in capillary blood (dried blood spots (DBS)) were established using multiple reaction monitoring (MRM). Combining DBS microsampling with highly multiplexed MRM assays is the best-suited technology to enhance the effectiveness of the ABP program, as it represents a cost-effective and robust alternative analytical method with high specificity and selectivity of targets in the attomole range. DBS data were collected from 10 healthy athlete volunteers over a period of 140 days (28 time points per participant). These comprehensive findings provide a personalized targeted blood proteome "fingerprint" showcasing that the targeted proteome is unique to an individual and likely comparable to a DNA fingerprint. The results can serve as a baseline for future studies investigating doping-related perturbations.
PXD045193	38657288	Optimising a self-assembling peptide hydrogel as a Matrigel alternative for 3-dimensional mammary epithelial cell culture. 	Optimising a self-assembling peptide hydrogel as a Matrigel alternative for 3-dimensional mammary epithelial cell culture	3D, laminin, mammary epithelial cell, organoid	Three-dimensional (3D) organoid models have been instrumental in understanding molecular mechanisms responsible for many cellular processes and diseases. However, established organic biomaterial scaffolds used for 3D hydrogel cultures, such as Matrigel, are biochemically complex and display significant batch variability, limiting reproducibility in experiments. Recently, there has been significant progress in the development of synthetic hydrogels for in vitro cell culture that are reproducible, mechanically tuneable, and biocompatible. Self-assembling peptide hydrogels (SAPHs) are synthetic biomaterials that can be engineered to be compatible with 3D cell culture. Here we investigate the ability of PeptiGel(R) SAPHs to model the mammary epithelial cell (MEC) microenvironment in vitro. The positively charged PeptiGel(R)Alpha4 supported MEC viability, but did not promote formation of polarised acini. Modifying the stiffness of PeptiGel(R) Alpha4 stimulated changes in MEC viability and changes in protein expression associated with altered MEC function, but did not fully recapitulate the morphologies of MECs grown in Matrigel. To supply the appropriate biochemical signals for MEC organoids, we supplemented PeptiGels(R) with laminin. Laminin was found to require negatively charged PeptiGel(R) Alpha7 for functionality, but was then able to provide appropriate signals for correct MEC polarisation and expression of characteristic proteins. Thus, optimisation of SAPH composition and mechanics allows tuning to support tissue-specific organoids.
PXD038170	38657611	DDX20 is required for cell-cycle reentry of prospermatogonia and establishment of spermatogonial stem cell pool during testicular development in mice. 	Proteomic analysis of the effects of DDX20 deletion in spermatogonia	DDX20, knockout, spermatogonia	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), as key regulators of mRNA fate, are abundantly expressed in the testis. However, RBPs associated with human male infertility remain largely unknown. Through bioinformatic analyses, we identified 62 such RBPs, including an evolutionarily conserved RBP, DEAD-box helicase 20 (DDX20). Male germ-cell-specific inactivation of Ddx20 at E15.5 caused T1-propsermatogonia (T1-ProSG) to fail to reenter cell cycle during the first week of testicular development in mice. Consequently, neither the foundational spermatogonial stem cell (SSC) pool nor progenitor spermatogonia were ever formed in the knockout testes. Mechanistically, DDX20 functions to control the translation of its target mRNAs, many of which encode cell-cycle-related regulators, by interacting with key components of the translational machinery in prospermatogonia. Our data demonstrate a previously unreported function of DDX20 as a translational regulator of critical cell-cycle-related genes, which is essential for cell-cycle reentry of T1-ProSG and formation of the SSC pool.
PXD044853	38658525	A giant virus infecting the amoeboflagellate Naegleria. 	Catovirus naegleriensis (Naegleriavirus) shotgun LCMS/MS	Mimiviridae, Naegleria fowleri, giant virus, translation components	Giant viruses (Nucleocytoviricota) are significant lethality agents of various eukaryotic hosts. Although metagenomics indicates their ubiquitous distribution, available giant virus isolates are restricted to a very small number of protist and algal hosts. Here we report on the first viral isolate that replicates in the amoeboflagellate Naegleria. This genus comprises the notorious human pathogen Naegleria fowleri, the causative agent of the rare but fatal primary amoebic meningoencephalitis. We have elucidated the structure and infection cycle of this giant virus, Catovirus naegleriensis (a.k.a. Naegleriavirus, NiV), and show its unique adaptations to its Naegleria host using fluorescence in situ hybridization, electron microscopy, genomics, and proteomics. Naegleriavirus is only the fourth isolate of the highly diverse subfamily Klosneuvirinae, and like its relatives the NiV genome contains a large number of translation genes, but lacks transfer RNAs (tRNAs). NiV has acquired genes from its Naegleria host, which code for heat shock proteins and apoptosis inhibiting factors, presumably for host interactions. Notably, NiV infection was lethal to all Naegleria species tested, including the human pathogen N. fowleri. This study expands our experimental framework for investigating giant viruses and may help to better understand the basic biology of the human pathogen N. fowleri.
PXD044202	38658754	Discovery of WRN inhibitor HRO761 with synthetic lethality in MSI cancers. 	Discovery and characterization of a novel WRN inhibitor	MSI, WRN, cancer, inhibitor	The Werner syndrome RecQ helicase WRN was identified as a synthetic lethal target in cancer cells with microsatellite instability (MSI) by several genetic screens(1-6). Despite advances in treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors(7-10), there is an unmet need in the treatment of MSI cancers(11-14). Here we report the structural, biochemical, cellular and pharmacological characterization of the clinical-stage WRN helicase inhibitor HRO761, which was identified through an innovative hit-finding and lead-optimization strategy. HRO761 is a potent, selective, allosteric WRN inhibitor that binds at the interface of the D1 and D2 helicase domains, locking WRN in an inactive conformation. Pharmacological inhibition by HRO761 recapitulated the phenotype observed by WRN genetic suppression, leading to DNA damage and inhibition of tumour cell growth selectively in MSI cells in a p53-independent manner. Moreover, HRO761 led to WRN degradation in MSI cells but not in microsatellite-stable cells. Oral treatment with HRO761 resulted in dose-dependent in vivo DNA damage induction and tumour growth inhibition in MSI cell- and patient-derived xenograft models. These findings represent preclinical pharmacological validation of WRN as a therapeutic target in MSI cancers. A clinical trial with HRO761 (NCT05838768) is ongoing to assess the safety, tolerability and preliminary anti-tumour activity in patients with MSI colorectal cancer and other MSI solid tumours.
PXD041298	38659623	Functional redundancy revealed by the deletion of the mimivirus GMC-oxidoreductase genes. 	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of virions and fibrils from Mimiviridae	Mimivirus, fibrils, nanoLC-MS/MS, virion	The mimivirus 1.2 Mb genome was shown to be organized into a nucleocapsid-like genomic fiber encased in the nucleoid compartment inside the icosahedral capsid. The genomic fiber protein shell is composed of a mixture of two GMC-oxidoreductase paralogs, one of them being the main component of the glycosylated layer of fibrils at the surface of the virion. In this study, we determined the effect of the deletion of each of the corresponding genes on the genomic fiber and the layer of surface fibrils. First, we deleted the GMC-oxidoreductase, the most abundant in the genomic fiber, and determined its structure and composition in the mutant. As expected, it was composed of the second GMC-oxidoreductase and contained 5- and 6-start helices similar to the wild-type fiber. This result led us to propose a model explaining their coexistence. Then we deleted the GMC-oxidoreductase, the most abundant in the layer of fibrils, to analyze its protein composition in the mutant. Second, we showed that the fitness of single mutants and the double mutant were not decreased compared with the wild-type viruses under laboratory conditions. Third, we determined that deleting the GMC-oxidoreductase genes did not impact the glycosylation or the glycan composition of the layer of surface fibrils, despite modifying their protein composition. Because the glycosylation machinery and glycan composition of members of different clades are different, we expanded the analysis of the protein composition of the layer of fibrils to members of the B and C clades and showed that it was different among the three clades and even among isolates within the same clade. Taken together, the results obtained on two distinct central processes (genome packaging and virion coating) illustrate an unexpected functional redundancy in members of the family Mimiviridae, suggesting this may be the major evolutionary force behind their giant genomes.
PXD050371	38659924	Nuclear speckle rejuvenation alleviates proteinopathies at the expense of YAP1. 	Profile the composition of reconstituted nuclear speckles	nuclear speckles	Current treatments targeting individual protein quality control have limited efficacy in alleviating proteinopathies, highlighting the prerequisite for a common upstream druggable target capable of global proteostasis modulation. Building on our prior research establishing nuclear speckles as pivotal organelles responsible for global proteostasis transcriptional control, we aim to alleviate proteinopathies through nuclear speckle rejuvenation. We identified pyrvinium pamoate as a small-molecule nuclear speckle rejuvenator that enhances protein quality control while suppressing YAP1 signaling via decreasing the surface tension of nuclear speckle condensates through interaction with the intrinsically disordered region of nuclear speckle scaffold protein SON. In pre-clinical models, pyrvinium pamoate reduced tauopathy and alleviated retina degeneration by promoting autophagy and ubiquitin-proteasome system. Aberrant nuclear speckle morphology, reduced protein quality control and increased YAP1 activity were also observed in human tauopathies. Our study uncovers novel therapeutic targets for tackling protein misfolding disorders within an expanded proteostasis framework encompassing nuclear speckles and YAP1.
PXD043901	38660744	Probing the salivary proteome for prognostic biomarkers in response to non-surgical periodontal therapy. 	Probing the Salivary Proteome for Prognostic Biomarkers in Response to Non-Surgical Management of Periodontitis	biomarkers, label-free quantitative proteomics, periodontal treatment, periodontitis, saliva	AIM: This prospective study investigated the salivary proteome before and after periodontal therapy. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten systemically healthy, non-smoking, stage III, grade C periodontitis patients underwent non-surgical periodontal treatment. Full-mouth periodontal parameters were measured, and saliva (n = 30) collected pre- (T0), and one (T1) and six (T6) months post-treatment. The proteome was investigated by label-free quantitative proteomics. Protein expression changes were modelled over time, with significant protein regulation considered at false discovery rate <0.05. RESULTS: Treatment significantly reduced bleeding scores, percentages of sites with pocket depth >=5 mm, plaque and gingival indexes. One thousand seven hundred and thirteen proteins were identified and 838 proteins (human = 757, bacterial = 81) quantified (>=2 peptides). At T1, 80 (T1 vs. T0: 60^:20v), and at T6, 118 human proteins (T6 vs. T0: 67^:51v) were regulated. The salivary proteome at T6 versus T1 remained stable. Highest protein activity post- versus pre-treatment was observed for cellular movement and inflammatory response. The small proline-rich protein 3 (T1 vs. T0: 5.4-fold^) and lymphocyte-specific protein 1 (T6 vs. T0: 4.6-foldv) were the top regulated human proteins. Proteins from Neisseria mucosa and Treponema socranskii (T1 vs. T0: 8.0-foldv, 4.9-foldv) were down-regulated. CONCLUSIONS: Periodontal treatment reduced clinical disease parameters and these changes were reflected in the salivary proteome. This underscores the potential of utilizing saliva biomarkers as prognostic tools for monitoring treatment outcomes.
PXD049710	38661232	The ABCF proteins in Escherichia coli individually cope with 'hard-to-translate' nascent peptide sequences. 	The ABCF proteins in Escherichia coli individually address "hard-to-translate" nascent peptide sequences.	ABC-F, EF-P, Intrinsic Ribosome Destabilization, SecM, polyacidic, polybasic, polyproline, translation stalling	Organisms possess a wide variety of proteins with diverse amino acid sequences, and their synthesis relies on the ribosome. Empirical observations have led to the misconception that ribosomes are robust protein factories, but in reality, they have several weaknesses. For instance, ribosomes stall during the translation of the proline-rich sequences, but the elongation factor EF-P assists in synthesizing proteins containing the poly-proline sequences. Thus, living organisms have evolved to expand the translation capability of ribosomes through the acquisition of translation elongation factors. In this study, we have revealed that Escherichia coli ATP-Binding Cassette family-F (ABCF) proteins, YheS, YbiT, EttA and Uup, individually cope with various problematic nascent peptide sequences within the exit tunnel. The correspondence between noncanonical translations and ABCFs was YheS for the translational arrest by nascent SecM, YbiT for poly-basic sequence-dependent stalling and poly-acidic sequence-dependent intrinsic ribosome destabilization (IRD), EttA for IRD at the early stage of elongation, and Uup for poly-proline-dependent stalling. Our results suggest that ATP hydrolysis-coupled structural rearrangement and the interdomain linker sequence are pivotal for handling 'hard-to-translate' nascent peptides. Our study highlights a new aspect of ABCF proteins to reduce the potential risks that are encoded within the nascent peptide sequences.
PXD041587	38662832	Large-scale chemoproteomics expedites ligand discovery and predicts ligand behavior in cells. 	Large-scale chemoproteomics expedites ligand discovery and predicts ligand behavior in cells	AI, Chemical Proteomics, FBLD, Ligandability, Screening, bioactive, chemical probe, drug, fragment-protein interaction, machine learning	Chemical modulation of proteins enables a mechanistic understanding of biology and represents the foundation of most therapeutics. However, despite decades of research, 80% of the human proteome lacks functional ligands. Chemical proteomics has advanced fragment-based ligand discovery toward cellular systems, but throughput limitations have stymied the scalable identification of fragment-protein interactions. We report proteome-wide maps of protein-binding propensity for 407 structurally diverse small-molecule fragments. We verified that identified interactions can be advanced to active chemical probes of E3 ubiquitin ligases, transporters, and kinases. Integrating machine learning binary classifiers further enabled interpretable predictions of fragment behavior in cells. The resulting resource of fragment-protein interactions and predictive models will help to elucidate principles of molecular recognition and expedite ligand discovery efforts for hitherto undrugged proteins.
PXD043649	38663634	The downregulation of Kv1 channels in Lgi1(-/-)mice is accompanied by a profound modification of its interactome and a parallel decrease in Kv2 channels. 	Molecular Basis of Kv1 Channel Downregulation and Its Epileptogenic Implications in Lgi1 Knock-out Mice	Kv1, LGI1, interactome	In animal models of LGI1-dependent autosomal dominant lateral temporal lobe epilepsy, Kv1 channels are downregulated, suggesting their crucial involvement in epileptogenesis. The molecular basis of Kv1 channel-downregulation in LGI1 knock-out mice has not been elucidated and how the absence of this extracellular protein induces an important modification in the expression of Kv1 remains unknown. In this study we analyse by immunofluorescence the modifications in neuronal Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 distribution throughout the hippocampal formation of LGI1 knock-out mice. We show that Kv1 downregulation is not restricted to the axonal compartment, but also takes place in the somatodendritic region and is accompanied by a drastic decrease in Kv2 expression levels. Moreover, we find that the downregulation of these Kv channels is associated with a marked increase in bursting patterns. Finally, mass spectrometry uncovered key modifications in the Kv1 interactome that highlight the epileptogenic implication of Kv1 downregulation in LGI1 knock-out animals.
PXD042549	38664367	Denaturing mass photometry for rapid optimization of chemical protein-protein cross-linking reactions. 	Denaturing mass photometry for rapid optimization of chemical protein-protein cross-linking reactions	Cross-linking mass spectrometry, Mass Photometry	Chemical cross-linking reactions (XL) are an important strategy for studying protein-protein interactions (PPIs), including low abundant sub-complexes, in structural biology. However, choosing XL reagents and conditions is laborious and mostly limited to analysis of protein assemblies that can be resolved using SDS-PAGE. To overcome these limitations, we develop here a denaturing mass photometry (dMP) method for fast, reliable and user-friendly optimization and monitoring of chemical XL reactions. The dMP is a robust 2-step protocol that ensures 95% of irreversible denaturation within only 5 min. We show that dMP provides accurate mass identification across a broad mass range (30 kDa-5 MDa) along with direct label-free relative quantification of all coexisting XL species (sub-complexes and aggregates). We compare dMP with SDS-PAGE and observe that, unlike the benchmark, dMP is time-efficient (3 min/triplicate), requires significantly less material (20-100x) and affords single molecule sensitivity. To illustrate its utility for routine structural biology applications, we show that dMP affords screening of 20 XL conditions in 1 h, accurately identifying and quantifying all coexisting species. Taken together, we anticipate that dMP will have an impact on ability to structurally characterize more PPIs and macromolecular assemblies, expected final complexes but also sub-complexes that form en route.
PXD047052	38664393	An Efficient, Amine-Specific, and Cost-Effective Method for TMT 6/11-plex Labeling Improves the Proteome Coverage, Quantitative Accuracy and Precision. 	n Efficient, Amine-Specific, and Cost-Effective Method for TMT 6/11-plex Labeling Improves the Proteome Coverage, Quantitative Accuracy and Precision	TMT	Tandem mass tags (TMT) are widely used in proteomics to simultaneously quantify multiple samples in a single experiment. The tags can be easily added to the primary amines of peptides/proteins through chemical reactions. In addition to amines, TMT reagents also partially react with the hydroxyl groups of serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues under alkaline conditions, which significantly compromises the analytical sensitivity and precision. Under alkaline conditions, reducing the TMT molar excess can partially mitigate overlabeling of histidine-free peptides, but has a limited effect on peptides containing histidine and hydroxyl groups. Here, we present a method under acidic conditions to suppress overlabeling while efficiently labeling amines, using only one-fifth of the TMT amount recommended by the manufacturer. In a deep-scale analysis of a yeast/human two-proteome sample, we systematically evaluated our method against the manufacturer's method and a previously reported TMT-reduced method. Our method reduced overlabeled peptides by 9-fold and 6-fold, respectively, resulting in the substantial enhancement in peptide/protein identification rates. More importantly, the quantitative accuracy and precision were improved as overlabeling was reduced, endowing our method with greater statistical power to detect 42% and 12% more statistically significant yeast proteins compared to the standard and TMT-reduced methods, respectively. Mass spectrometric data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the iProX partner repository with the data set identifier PXD047052.
PXD046150	38665522	Protein painting for structural and binding site analysis via intracellular lysine reactivity profiling with o-phthalaldehyde. 	Cellular protein painting for structural and binding sites analysis via lysine reactivity profiling with o-phthalaldehyde	Protein structural conformation, binding site, chemical probe	The three-dimensional structure and the molecular interaction of proteins determine their roles in many cellular processes. Chemical protein painting with protein mass spectrometry can identify changes in structural conformations and molecular interactions of proteins including their binding sites. Nevertheless, most current protein painting techniques identify protein targets and binding sites of drugs in vitro using a cell lysate or purified protein. Here, we tested 11 membrane-permeable lysine-reactive chemical probes for intracellular covalent labeling of endogenous proteins, which reveals ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA) as the most reactive probe in the intracellular environment. An MS workflow and a new data analysis strategy termed RAPID (Reactive Amino acid Profiling by Inverse Detection) was developed to enhance detection sensitivity. RAPID with OPA successfully identified structural changes induced by the allosteric drug TEPP-46 on its target protein PKM2 and was applied to profile the conformation change of the proteome occurring in cells during thermal denaturation. The application of RAPID-OPA on cells treated with geldanamycin, selumetinib, and staurosporine successfully revealed their binding sites on target proteins. Thus, RAPID-OPA for cellular protein painting enables the identification of ligand-binding sites and detection of protein structural changes occurring in cells.
PXD048930	38666819	Influence of Mutations and N-Glycosylation Sites in the Receptor-Binding Domain (RBD) and the Membrane Protein of SARS-CoV-2 Variants of Concern on Antibody Binding in ELISA. 	Analysis of N-Glycosylation for SARS-CoV-2 expressed receptor-binding domain VOCs and membrane protein with LC-MS.	ESI-IMS-Q-TOF-MS, HD-DDA, N-Glycosylation, SARS-CoV-2	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) can infect human cells by first attaching to the ACE-2 receptor via its receptor-binding domain (RBD) in the spike protein. Here, we report the influence of N-glycosylation sites of the RBD and the membrane (M) protein on IgG antibody binding in serum samples from patients infected with the original SARS-CoV-2 strain in Germany. The RBDs of the wildtype, alpha, beta, gamma, and kappa variants expressed in HEK293S GnTI- cells were all N-glycosylated at Asn331, Asn334, Asn343, and Asn360 or Asn370, whereas the M-protein was glycosylated at Asn5. An ELISA using a coated RBD and probed with anti-RBD IgG antibodies gave a sensitivity of 96.3% and a specificity of 100% for the wildtype RBD, while the sensitivity decreased by 5% to 10% for the variants of concern, essentially in the order of appearance. Deglycosylation of the wildtype RBD strongly reduced antibody recognition by ~20%, considering the mean of the absorbances recorded for the ELISA. This effect was even stronger for the unglycosylated RBD expressed in Escherichia coli, suggesting structural changes affecting epitope recognition. Interestingly, the N-glycosylated M-protein expressed in HEK293S GnTI- cells gave good sensitivity (95%), which also decreased to 65% after deglycosylation, and selectivity (100%). In conclusion, N-glycosylation of the M-protein, the RBD, and most likely the spike protein are important for proper antibody binding and immunological assays, whereas the type of N-glycosylation is less relevant.
PXD047507	38667022	Differences in the Synovial Fluid Proteome of Septic and Aseptic Implant Failure. 	Proteomic differences in the synovial fluid of patients undergoing septic or aseptic revision arthroplasty	arthroplasty, synovial fluid	Implant loosening is a severe complication after total joint replacement. Here, differential diagnosis between septic and aseptic cases is crucial for further surgical treatment, but low-grade periprosthetic joint infections (PJIs) in particular remain a challenge. In this study, we analyzed the synovial fluid proteome of 21 patients undergoing revision surgery for septic (eight cases) or aseptic (thirteen cases) implant failure using LC-MS/MS to identify potential new biomarkers as future diagnostic tools. Staphylococci were found in four cases, Streptococci in two cases, Serratia marcescens and Cutibacterium acnes in one case. Proteomic analysis of the synovial fluid resulted in the identification of 515 different proteins based on at least two peptides. A statistical comparison revealed 37 differentially abundant proteins (p < 0.05), of which 17 proteins (46%) showed a higher abundance in the septic group. The proteins with the highest fold change included the known marker proteins c-reactive protein (7.57-fold) and the calprotectin components protein S100-A8 (4.41-fold) and protein S100-A9 (3.1-fold). However, the protein with the highest fold change was leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 (LRG1) (9.07-fold), a currently discussed new biomarker for inflammatory diseases. Elevated LRG1 levels could facilitate the diagnosis of PJI in the future, but their significance needs to be further investigated.
PXD048450	38667270	Sit4 Genetically Interacts with Vps27 to Regulate Mitochondrial Function and Lifespan in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Sit4 genetically interacts with Vps27 to regulate mitochondrial function and lifespan in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Sit4, Vps27, chronological aging, iron, mitochondria, vacuolar trafficking	The Sit4 protein phosphatase plays a key role in orchestrating various cellular processes essential for maintaining cell viability during aging. We have previously shown that SIT4 deletion promotes vacuolar acidification, mitochondrial derepression, and oxidative stress resistance, increasing yeast chronological lifespan. In this study, we performed a proteomic analysis of isolated vacuoles and yeast genetic interaction analysis to unravel how Sit4 influences vacuolar and mitochondrial function. By employing high-resolution mass spectrometry, we show that sit4Delta vacuolar membranes were enriched in Vps27 and Hse1, two proteins that are part of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport-0. In addition, SIT4 exhibited a negative genetic interaction with VPS27, as sit4incrementvps27increment double mutants had a shortened lifespan compared to sit4increment and vps27increment single mutants. Our results also show that Vps27 did not increase sit4increment lifespan by improving protein trafficking or vacuolar sorting pathways. However, Vps27 was critical for iron homeostasis and mitochondrial function in sit4increment cells, as sit4incrementvps27increment double mutants exhibited high iron levels and impaired mitochondrial respiration. These findings show, for the first time, cross-talk between Sit4 and Vps27, providing new insights into the mechanisms governing chronological lifespan.
PXD045527	38667364	In Drosophila Hemolymph, Serine Proteases Are the Major Gelatinases and Caseinases. 	Drosophila melanogaster hemolymph gelatinase	Caseinase, Drosophila, Gelatinase, Hemolymph, Immunity, Proteases, in gel zymography	After separation on gel zymography, Drosophila melanogaster hemolymph displays gelatinase and caseinase bands of varying sizes, ranging from over 140 to 25 kDa. Qualitative and quantitative variations in these bands were observed during larval development and between different D. melanogaster strains and Drosophila species. The activities of these Drosophila hemolymph gelatinase and caseinase were strongly inhibited by serine protease inhibitors, but not by EDTA. Mass spectrometry identified over 60 serine proteases (SPs) in gel bands corresponding to the major D. melanogaster gelatinases and caseinases, but no matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) were found. The most abundant proteases were tequila and members of the Jonah and trypsin families. However, the gelatinase bands did not show any change in the tequila null mutant. Additionally, no clear changes could be observed in D. melanogaster gel bands 24 h after injection of bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) or after oviposition by Leptopilina boulardi endoparasitoid wasps. It can be concluded that the primary gelatinases and caseinases in Drosophila larval hemolymph are serine proteases (SPs) rather than matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Furthermore, the gelatinase pattern remains relatively stable even after short-term exposure to pathogenic challenges.
PXD048042	38668343	Cathepsin S Is More Abundant in Serum of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis-Infected Dairy Cows. 	Cathepsin S in Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis Infected Dairy Cows	Serum, label-free mass spectrometry, preomics	Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) is the causative agent of bovine paratuberculosis, a chronic granulomatous enteritis leading to economic losses and posing a risk to human health due to its zoonotic potential. The pathogen cannot reliably be detected by standard methods, and immunological procedures during the infection are not well understood. Therefore, the aim of our study was to explore host-pathogen interactions in MAP-infected dairy cows and to improve diagnostic tests. Serum proteomics analysis using quantitative label-free LC-MS/MS revealed 60 differentially abundant proteins in MAP-infected dairy cows compared to healthy controls from the same infected herd and 90 differentially abundant proteins in comparison to another control group from an uninfected herd. Pathway enrichment analysis provided new insights into the immune response to MAP and susceptibility to the infection. Furthermore, we found a higher abundance of Cathepsin S (CTSS) in the serum of MAP-infected dairy cows, which is involved in multiple enriched pathways associated with the immune system. Confirmed with Western blotting, we identified CTSS as a potential biomarker for bovine paratuberculosis. This study enabled a better understanding of procedures in the host-pathogen response to MAP and improved detection of paratuberculosis-diseased cattle.
PXD047251	38670310	Generation of a deep mouse brain spectral library for transmembrane proteome profiling in mental disease models. 	Generation of a deep mouse brain spectral library for transmembrane proteome profiling in mental disease models	data-independent acquisition, mental disorder, mouse brain, spectral library, transmembrane proteome	Transmembrane (TM) proteins constitute over 30% of the mammalian proteome and play essential roles in mediating cell-cell communication, synaptic transmission and plasticity in the central nervous system. Many of these proteins, especially the G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), are validated or candidate drug targets for therapeutic development for mental diseases, yet their expression profiles are underrepresented in most global proteomic studies. Herein, we establish a brain TM protein-enriched spectral library based on 136 DDA runs acquired from various brain regions of both naive mice and mental disease models. This spectral library comprises 3043 TM proteins including 171 GPCRs, 231 ion channels and 598 transporters. Leveraging this library, we analyzed the DIA data from different brain regions of two mouse models exhibiting depression- or anxiety-like behaviors. By integrating multiple informatics workflows and library sources, our study significantly expanded the mental stress-perturbed TM proteome landscape, from which a new GPCR regulator of depression was verified by in vivo pharmacological testing. In summary, we provide a high-quality mouse brain TM protein spectral library to largely increase the TM proteome coverage in specific brain regions, which would catalyze the discovery of new potential drug targets for the treatment of mental disorders.
PXD048667	38670937	Oxygen enhances antiviral innate immunity through maintenance of EGLN1-catalyzed proline hydroxylation of IRF3. 	IRF3 and HIF hydroxylation by EGLN1	EGLN1, HIF, IRF3, hydroxylation	Oxygen is essential for aerobic organisms, but little is known about its role in antiviral immunity. Here, we report that during responses to viral infection, hypoxic conditions repress antiviral-responsive genes independently of HIF signaling. EGLN1 is identified as a key mediator of the oxygen enhancement of antiviral innate immune responses. Under sufficient oxygen conditions, EGLN1 retains its prolyl hydroxylase activity to catalyze the hydroxylation of IRF3 at proline 10. This modification enhances IRF3 phosphorylation, dimerization and nuclear translocation, leading to subsequent IRF3 activation. Furthermore, mice and zebrafish with Egln1 deletion, treatment with the EGLN inhibitor FG4592, or mice carrying an Irf3 P10A mutation are more susceptible to viral infections. These findings not only reveal a direct link between oxygen and antiviral responses, but also provide insight into the mechanisms by which oxygen regulates innate immunity.
PXD034989	38671194	Evolutionarily conserved ovarian fluid proteins are responsible for extending egg viability in salmonid fish. 	Fish coelomic fluid proteomic analysis by LC-MSMS	coelimic fluid, fish	In contrast to most fishes, salmonids exhibit the unique ability to hold their eggs for several days after ovulation without significant loss of viability. During this period, eggs are held in the body cavity in a biological fluid, the coelomic fluid (CF) that is responsible for preserving egg viability. To identify CF proteins responsible for preserving egg viability, a proteomic comparison was performed using 3 salmonid species and 3 non-salmonid species to identify salmonid-specific highly abundant proteins. In parallel, rainbow trout CF fractions were purified and used in a biological test to estimate their egg viability preservation potential. The most biologically active CF fractions were then subjected to mass spectrometry analysis. We identified 50 proteins overabundant in salmonids and present in analytical fractions with high egg viability preservation potential. The identity of these proteins illuminates the biological processes participating in egg viability preservation. Among identified proteins of interest, the ovarian-specific expression and abundance in CF at ovulation of N-acetylneuraminic acid synthase a (Nansa) suggest a previously unsuspected role. We show that salmonid CF is a complex biological fluid containing a diversity of proteins related to immunity, calcium binding, lipid metabolism, proteolysis, extracellular matrix and sialic acid metabolic pathway that are collectively responsible for preserving egg viability.
PXD044674	38671439	CAV3 alleviates diabetic cardiomyopathy via inhibiting NDUFA10-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction. 	Potential binding proteins of CAV3 obtained from LC-MS/MS	CAV3, Potential binding proteins	BACKGROUND: The progression of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is noticeably influenced by mitochondrial dysfunction. Variants of caveolin 3 (CAV3) play important roles in cardiovascular diseases. However, the potential roles of CAV3 in mitochondrial function in DCM and the related mechanisms have not yet been elucidated. METHODS: Cardiomyocytes were cultured under high-glucose and high-fat (HGHF) conditions in vitro, and db/db mice were employed as a diabetes model in vivo. To investigate the role of CAV3 in DCM and to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying its involvement in mitochondrial function, we conducted Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis and functional experiments. RESULTS: Our findings demonstrated significant downregulation of CAV3 in the cardiac tissue of db/db mice, which was found to be associated with cardiomyocyte apoptosis in DCM. Importantly, cardiac-specific overexpression of CAV3 effectively inhibited the progression of DCM, as it protected against cardiac dysfunction and cardiac remodeling associated by alleviating cardiomyocyte mitochondrial dysfunction. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis and immunoprecipitation assays indicated that CAV3 interacted with NDUFA10, a subunit of mitochondrial complex I. CAV3 overexpression reduced the degradation of lysosomal pathway in NDUFA10, restored the activity of mitochondrial complex I and improved mitochondrial function. Finally, our study demonstrated that CAV3 overexpression restored mitochondrial function and subsequently alleviated DCM partially through NDUFA10. CONCLUSIONS: The current study provides evidence that CAV3 expression is significantly downregulated in DCM. Upregulation of CAV3 interacts with NDUFA10, inhibits the degradation of lysosomal pathway in NDUFA10, a subunit of mitochondrial complex I, restores the activity of mitochondrial complex I, ameliorates mitochondrial dysfunction, and thereby protects against DCM. These findings indicate that targeting CAV3 may be a promising approach for the treatment of DCM.
PXD023792	38671504	Deciphering the role of FUS::DDIT3 expression and tumor microenvironment in myxoid liposarcoma development. 	Characterisation of a cell-free myxoid liposarcoma patient-derived xenograft scaffold model	FUS-DDIT3 expression and tumor microenvironment, cancer	BACKGROUND: Myxoid liposarcoma (MLS) displays a distinctive tumor microenvironment and is characterized by the FUS::DDIT3 fusion oncogene, however, the precise functional contributions of these two elements remain enigmatic in tumor development. METHODS: To study the cell-free microenvironment in MLS, we developed an experimental model system based on decellularized patient-derived xenograft tumors. We characterized the cell-free scaffold using mass spectrometry. Subsequently, scaffolds were repopulated using sarcoma cells with or without FUS::DDIT3 expression that were analyzed with histology and RNA sequencing. RESULTS: Characterization of cell-free MLS scaffolds revealed intact structure and a large variation of protein types remaining after decellularization. We demonstrated an optimal culture time of 3 weeks and showed that FUS::DDIT3 expression decreased cell proliferation and scaffold invasiveness. The cell-free MLS microenvironment and FUS::DDIT3 expression both induced biological processes related to cell-to-cell and cell-to-extracellular matrix interactions, as well as chromatin remodeling, immune response, and metabolism. Data indicated that FUS::DDIT3 expression more than the microenvironment determined the pre-adipocytic phenotype that is typical for MLS. CONCLUSIONS: Our experimental approach opens new means to study the tumor microenvironment in detail and our findings suggest that FUS::DDIT3-expressing tumor cells can create their own extracellular niche.
PXD044721	38672470	Intact Transition Epitope Mapping-Force Interferences by Variable Extensions (ITEM-FIVE). 	Intact Transition Epitope Mapping - Forces of Interactions between Variants of Equivalent macromolecules (ITEM-FIVE)	Foldon, ITEM-TWO, Offline ESI-MS, complex dissociation, gas phase, hetero-trimer, homo-trimer	Investigations on binding strength differences of non-covalent protein complex components were performed by mass spectrometry. T4 fibritin foldon (T4Ff) is a well-studied miniprotein, which together with its biotinylated version served as model system to represent a compactly folded protein to which an Intrinsically Disordered Region (IDR) was attached. The apparent enthalpies of the gas phase dissociation reactions of the homo-trimeric foldon F-F-F and of the homo-trimeric triply biotinylated foldon bF-bF-bF have been determined to be rather similar (3.32 kJ/mol and 3.85 kJ/mol) but quite distinct from those of the singly and doubly biotinylated hetero-trimers F-F-bF and F-bF-bF (1.86 kJ/mol and 1.08 kJ/mol). Molecular dynamics simulations suggest that the ground states of the (biotinylated) T4Ff trimers are highly symmetric and well comparable to each other, indicating that the energy levels of all four (biotinylated) T4Ff trimer ground states are nearly indistinguishable. The experimentally determined differences and/or similarities in enthalpies of the complex dissociation reactions are explained by entropic spring effects, which are noticeable in the T4Ff hetero-trimers but not in the T4Ff homo-trimers. A lowering of the transition state energy levels of the T4Ff hetero-trimers seems likely because the biotin moieties, mimicking intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs), induced asymmetries in the transition states of the biotinylated T4Ff hetero-trimers. This transition state energy level lowering effect is absent in the T4Ff homo-trimer, as well as in the triply biotinylated T4Ff homo-trimer. In the latter, the IDR-associated entropic spring effects on complex stability cancel each other out. ITEM-FIVE enabled semi-quantitative determination of energy differences of complex dissociation reactions, whose differences were modulated by IDRs attached to compactly folded proteins.
PXD047577	38673795	Tumor-Extrinsic Axl Expression Shapes an Inflammatory Microenvironment Independent of Tumor Cell Promoting Axl Signaling in Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	Gas6/Axl signaling activates Akt in liver cancer cells	Axl, Gas6, cell invasion, hepatocellular carcinoma.	The activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase Axl by Gas6 is a major driver of tumorigenesis. Despite recent insights, tumor cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic Axl functions are poorly understood in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Thus, we analyzed the cell-specific aspects of Axl in liver cancer cells and in the tumor microenvironment. We show that tumor-intrinsic Axl expression decreased the survival of mice and elevated the number of pulmonary metastases in a model of resection-based tumor recurrence. Axl expression increased the invasion of hepatospheres by the activation of Akt signaling and a partial epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, the liver tumor burden of Axl(+/+) mice induced by diethylnitrosamine plus carbon tetrachloride was reduced compared to systemic Axl(-/-) mice. Tumors of Axl(+/+) mice were highly infiltrated with cytotoxic cells, suggesting a key immune-modulatory role of Axl. Interestingly, hepatocyte-specific Axl deficiency did not alter T cell infiltration, indicating that these changes are independent of tumor cell-intrinsic Axl. In this context, we observed an upregulation of multiple chemokines in Axl(+/+) compared to Axl(-/-) tumors, correlating with HCC patient data. In line with this, Axl is associated with a cytotoxic immune signature in HCC patients. Together these data show that tumor-intrinsic Axl expression fosters progression, while tumor-extrinsic Axl expression shapes an inflammatory microenvironment.
PXD050025	38673840	TMT-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Key Role of Cell Proliferation and Apoptosis in Intestine Regeneration of Apostichopus japonicus. 	TMT-Based quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the key role of cell proliferation and apoptosis in intestine regeneration of Apostichopus japonicus	Intestine regeneration, Proteome profiling, Sea cucumber	Sea cucumbers are widely known for their powerful regenerative abilities, which allow them to regenerate a complete digestive tract within a relatively short time following injury or autotomy. Recently, even though the histological changes and cellular events in the processes of intestinal regeneration have been extensively studied, the molecular machinery behind this faculty remains unclear. In this study, tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitation was utilized to investigate protein abundance changes during the process of intestine regeneration. Approximately 538, 445, 397, 1012, and 966 differential proteins (DEPs) were detected (p < 0.05) between the normal and 2, 7, 12, 20, and 28 dpe stages, respectively. These DEPs also mainly focus on pathways of cell proliferation and apoptosis, which were further validated by 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) or Tunel-based flow cytometry assay. These findings provide a reference for a comprehensive understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of various stages of intestinal regeneration and provide a foundation for subsequent research on changes in cell fate in echinoderms.
PXD044160	38673965	A Multi-Faceted Analysis Showing CRNDE Transcripts and a Recently Confirmed Micropeptide as Important Players in Ovarian Carcinogenesis. 	A Multi-Faceted Analysis Showing CRNDE Transcripts and a Recently Confirmed Micropeptide as Important Players in Ovarian Carcinogenesis (CRNDEP co-immunoprecipitation)	CRNDE, DNA methylation, DNA sequence variant, SEP, TP53, adhesion, affinity chromatography, centrosome, cytoskeleton, lncRNA, micropeptide, microtubular toxin, microtubule, nucleolus, ovarian cancer, protein expression	CRNDE is considered an oncogene expressed as long non-coding RNA. Our previous paper is the only one reporting CRNDE as a micropeptide-coding gene. The amino acid sequence of this micropeptide (CRNDEP) has recently been confirmed by other researchers. This study aimed at providing a mass spectrometry (MS)-based validation of the CRNDEP sequence and an investigation of how the differential expression of CRNDE(P) influences the metabolism and chemoresistance of ovarian cancer (OvCa) cells. We also assessed cellular localization changes of CRNDEP, looked for its protein partners, and bioinformatically evaluated its RNA-binding capacities. Herein, we detected most of the CRNDEP sequence by MS. Moreover, our results corroborated the oncogenic role of CRNDE, portraying it as the gene impacting carcinogenesis at the stages of DNA transcription and replication, affecting the RNA metabolism, and stimulating the cell cycle progression and proliferation, with CRNDEP being detected in the centrosomes of dividing cells. We also showed that CRNDEP is located in nucleoli and revealed interactions of this micropeptide with p54, an RNA helicase. Additionally, we proved that high CRNDE(P) expression increases the resistance of OvCa cells to treatment with microtubule-targeted cytostatics. Furthermore, altered CRNDE(P) expression affected the activity of the microtubular cytoskeleton and the formation of focal adhesion plaques. Finally, according to our in silico analyses, CRNDEP is likely capable of RNA binding. All these results contribute to a better understanding of the CRNDE(P) role in OvCa biology, which may potentially improve the screening, diagnosis, and treatment of this disease.
PXD033521	38674154	Transcription Factor McHB7 Improves Ice Plant Drought Tolerance through ABA Signaling Pathway. 	Multi-functions of McHB7 in Mesembryanthemum crystallinum responses to salt and drought stresses	drought stress, salt stress	As global climate change continues, drought episodes have become increasingly frequent. Studying plant stress tolerance is urgently needed to ensure food security. The common ice plant is one of the model halophyte plants for plant stress biology research. This study aimed to investigate the functions of a newly discovered transcription factor, Homeobox 7 (HB7), from the ice plant in response to drought stress. An efficient Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method was established in the ice plant, where ectopic McHB7 expression may be sustained for four weeks. The McHB7 overexpression (OE) plants displayed drought tolerance, and the activities of redox enzymes and chlorophyll content in the OE plants were higher than the wild type. Quantitative proteomics revealed 1910 and 495 proteins significantly changed in the OE leaves compared to the wild type under the control and drought conditions, respectively. Most increased proteins were involved in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, photosynthesis, glycolysis, pyruvate metabolism, and oxidative phosphorylation pathways. Some were found to participate in abscisic acid signaling or response. Furthermore, the abscisic acid levels increased in the OE compared with the wild type. McHB7 was revealed to bind to the promoter motifs of Early Responsive to Dehydration genes and abscisic acid-responsive genes, and protein-protein interaction analysis revealed candidate proteins responsive to stresses and hormones (e.g., abscisic acid). To conclude, McHB7 may contribute to enhance plant drought tolerance through abscisic acid signaling.
PXD048722	38674386	Early Chronic Fluoxetine Treatment of Ts65Dn Mice Rescues Synaptic Vesicular Deficits and Prevents Aberrant Proteomic Alterations. 	Quantitative Proteomics of Intracellular Traffic in Down Syndrome Brain	Down Syndrome, cerebral cortex, fluoxetine, mose	Down syndrome (DS) is the most common form of inherited intellectual disability caused by trisomy of chromosome 21, presenting with intellectual impairment, craniofacial abnormalities, cardiac defects, and gastrointestinal disorders. The Ts65Dn mouse model replicates many abnormalities of DS. We hypothesized that investigation of the cerebral cortex of fluoxetine-treated trisomic mice may provide proteomic signatures that identify therapeutic targets for DS. Subcellular fractionation of synaptosomes from cerebral cortices of age- and brain-area-matched samples from fluoxetine-treated vs. water-treated trisomic and euploid male mice were subjected to HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry. Analysis of the data revealed enrichment of trisomic risk genes that participate in regulation of synaptic vesicular traffic, pre-synaptic and post-synaptic development, and mitochondrial energy pathways during early brain development. Proteomic analysis of trisomic synaptic fractions revealed significant downregulation of proteins involved in synaptic vesicular traffic, including vesicular endocytosis (CLTA, CLTB, CLTC), synaptic assembly and maturation (EXOC1, EXOC3, EXOC8), anterograde axonal transport (EXOC1), neurotransmitter transport to PSD (SACM1L), endosomal-lysosomal acidification (ROGDI, DMXL2), and synaptic signaling (NRXN1, HIP1, ITSN1, YWHAG). Additionally, trisomic proteomes revealed upregulation of several trafficking proteins, involved in vesicular exocytosis (Rab5B), synapse elimination (UBE3A), scission of endocytosis (DBN1), transport of ER in dendritic spines (MYO5A), presynaptic activity-dependent bulk endocytosis (FMR1), and NMDA receptor activity (GRIN2A). Chronic fluoxetine treatment of Ts65Dn mice rescued synaptic vesicular abnormalities and prevented abnormal proteomic changes in adult Ts65Dn mice, pointing to therapeutic targets for potential treatment of DS.
PXD050008	38676925	Focal clusters of peri-synaptic matrix contribute to activity-dependent plasticity and memory in mice. 	human amygdala CS-56 enrichment LC-MS/MS	CS56, amygdala, immunoprecipitation, postmortem	Recent findings show that effective integration of novel information in the brain requires coordinated processes of homo- and heterosynaptic plasticity. In this work, we hypothesize that activity-dependent remodeling of the peri-synaptic extracellular matrix (ECM) contributes to these processes. We show that clusters of the peri-synaptic ECM, recognized by CS56 antibody, emerge in response to sensory stimuli, showing temporal and spatial coincidence with dendritic spine plasticity. Using CS56 co-immunoprecipitation of synaptosomal proteins, we identify several molecules involved in Ca(2+) signaling, vesicle cycling, and AMPA-receptor exocytosis, thus suggesting a role in long-term potentiation (LTP). Finally, we show that, in the CA1 hippocampal region, the attenuation of CS56 glycoepitopes, through the depletion of versican as one of its main carriers, impairs LTP and object location memory in mice. These findings show that activity-dependent remodeling of the peri-synaptic ECM regulates the induction and consolidation of LTP, contributing to hippocampal-dependent memory.
PXD032169	38677284	Systematic analysis of proteome turnover in an organoid model of pancreatic cancer by dSILO. 	An Approach to Measuring Protein Turnover in Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell Organoids by Mass Spectrometry	SILAC, Topograph, d3-leucine, half-life determination, midbrain, midbrain organoid, organoid, turnover	The role of protein turnover in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) metastasis has not been previously investigated. We introduce dynamic stable-isotope labeling of organoids (dSILO): a dynamic SILAC derivative that combines a pulse of isotopically labeled amino acids with isobaric tandem mass-tag (TMT) labeling to measure proteome-wide protein turnover rates in organoids. We applied it to a PDA model and discovered that metastatic organoids exhibit an accelerated global proteome turnover compared to primary tumor organoids. Globally, most turnover changes are not reflected at the level of protein abundance. Interestingly, the group of proteins that show the highest turnover increase in metastatic PDA compared to tumor is involved in mitochondrial respiration. This indicates that metastatic PDA may adopt alternative respiratory chain functionality that is controlled by the rate at which proteins are turned over. Collectively, our analysis of proteome turnover in PDA organoids offers insights into the mechanisms underlying PDA metastasis.
PXD049266	38677285	Photoregulatory protein kinases fine-tune plant photomorphogenesis by directing a bifunctional phospho-code on HY5 in Arabidopsis. 	Photoregulatory Protein Kinases Fine-tune Plant Photomorphogenesis by Directing a Bifunctional Phospho-code on HY5	HY5, PPK1, phosphorylation	Photomorphogenesis is a light-dependent plant growth and development program. As the core regulator of photomorphogenesis, ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL 5 (HY5) is affected by dynamic changes in its transcriptional activity and protein stability; however, little is known about the mediators of these processes. Here, we identified PHOTOREGULATORY PROTEIN KINASE 1 (PPK1), which interacts with and phosphorylates HY5 in Arabidopsis, as one such mediator. The phosphorylation of HY5 by PPK1 is essential to establish high-affinity binding with B-BOX PROTEIN 24 (BBX24) and CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC 1 (COP1), which inhibit the transcriptional activity and promote the degradation of HY5, respectively. As such, PPKs regulate not only the binding of HY5 to its target genes under light conditions but also HY5 degradation when plants are transferred from light to dark. Our data identify a PPK-mediated phospho-code on HY5 that integrates the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of HY5 to precisely control plant photomorphogenesis.
PXD043479	38677512	Senp7 Deficiency Impairs Lipid Droplets Maturation in White Adipose Tissues via Plin4 DeSUMOylation. 	MS analysis of anti-Senp7 pulldown in adipocytes	Senp7, adipocyte	Lipid metabolism is important for the maintenance of physiological homeostasis. Several members of the SUMO-specific protease (SENP) family have been reported as the regulators of lipid homeostasis. However, the function of Senp7 in lipid metabolism remains unclear. In this study, we generated both conventional and adipocyte-specific Senp7 knockout mice to characterize the role of Senp7 in lipid metabolism homeostasis. Both Senp7-deficient mice displayed reduced white adipose tissue mass and decreased size of adipocytes. By analyzing the lipid droplet morphology, we demonstrated that the lipid droplet size was significantly smaller in Senp7-deficient adipocytes. Mechanistically, Senp7 could deSUMOylate the perilipin family protein Plin4 to promote the lipid droplet localization of Plin4. Our results reveal an important role of Senp7 in the maturation of lipid droplets via Plin4 deSUMOylation.
PXD051061	38678024	Loss of NEDD8 in cancer cells causes vulnerability to immune checkpoint blockade in triple-negative breast cancer. 	NEDD8 loss causes cancer vulnerability to immune checkpoint blockade in triple-negative breast cancer	PD-1, triple-negative breast cancer	Immune checkpoint blockade therapy aims to activate the immune system to eliminate cancer cells. However, clinical benefits are only recorded in a subset of patients. Here, we leverage genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screens in a Tumor-Immune co-Culture System focusing on triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). We reveal that NEDD8 loss in cancer cells causes a vulnerability to nivolumab (anti-PD-1). Genetic deletion of NEDD8 only delays cell division initially but cell proliferation is unaffected after recovery. Since the NEDD8 gene is commonly essential, we validate this observation with additional CRISPR screens and uncover enhanced immunogenicity in NEDD8 deficient cells using proteomics. In female immunocompetent mice, PD-1 blockade lacks efficacy against established EO771 breast cancer tumors. In contrast, we observe tumor regression mediated by CD8+ T cells against Nedd8 deficient EO771 tumors after PD-1 blockade. In essence, we provide evidence that NEDD8 is conditionally essential in TNBC and presents as a synergistic drug target for PD-1/L1 blockade therapy.
PXD046399	38679388	ASSESSING TARGET SPECIFICITY OF THE SMALL MOLECULE INHIBITOR MARIMASTAT TO SNAKE VENOM TOXINS: A NOVEL APPLICATION OF THERMAL PROTEOME PROFILING. 	Assessing Target Specificity of the Small Molecule Inhibitor Marimastat to Snake Venom Toxins: A Novel Application of Thermal Proteome Profiling	metalloprotease, snake venom, thermal proteome profiling	New treatments that circumvent the pitfalls of traditional antivenom therapies are critical to address the problem of snakebite globally. Numerous snake venom toxin inhibitors have shown promising cross-species neutralization of medically significant venom toxins in vivo and in vitro. The development of high-throughput approaches for the screening of such inhibitors could accelerate their identification, testing, and implementation, and thus holds exciting potential for improving the treatments and outcomes of snakebite envenomation worldwide. Energetics-based proteomic approaches, including Thermal Proteome Profiling (TPP) and Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (PISA) assays, represent "deep proteomics" methods for high throughput, proteome-wide identification of drug targets and ligands. In the following study, we apply TPP and PISA methods to characterize the interactions between venom toxin proteoforms in Crotalus atrox (Western Diamondback Rattlesnake) and the snake venom metalloprotease (SVMP) inhibitor marimastat. We investigate its venom proteome-wide effects and characterize its interactions with specific SVMP proteoforms, as well as its potential targeting of non-SVMP venom toxin families. We also compare the performance of PISA thermal window and soluble supernatant with insoluble precipitate using two inhibitor concentrations, providing the first demonstration of the utility of a sensitive high-throughput PISA-based approach to assess the direct targets of small molecule inhibitors for snake venom.
PXD045276	38679389	Proteomic Analysis Reveals Trilaciclib-Induced Senescence. 	Proteomic Analysis Reveals Trilaciclib-Induced Senescence	leukaemia, resistance, senescence, trilaciclib	Trilaciclib, a CDK4/6 inhibitor, was approved as a myeloprotective agent for protecting bone marrow from chemotherapy-induced damage in extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC). This is achieved through the induction of a temporary halt in the cell cycle of bone marrow cells. While it has been studied in various cancer types, its potential in haematological cancers remains unexplored. This research aimed to investigate the efficacy of trilaciclib in haematological cancers. Utilizing mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we examined the alterations induced by trilaciclib in the chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) cell line, K562. Interestingly, trilaciclib promoted senescence in these cells rather than cell death, as observed in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), and myeloma cells. In K562 cells, trilaciclib hindered cell cycle progression and proliferation by stabilising CDK4/6 and downregulating cell cycle-related proteins, along with the concomitant activation of autophagy pathways. Additionally, trilaciclib-induced senescence was also observed in the non-small cell lung carcinoma cell line (NSCLC), A549. These findings highlight trilaciclib's potential as a therapeutic option for haematological cancers and underscore the need to carefully balance senescence induction and autophagy modulation in CML treatment, as well as in NSCLC.
PXD034822	38679715	Mesenchymal stromal/stem cells promote intestinal epithelium regeneration after chemotherapy-induced damage. 	Graft versus host disease treatment with mesenchymal stem cells	GvHD, Human Proteome Project, MSC, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP)	BACKGROUND: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a curative treatment for leukemia and a range of non-malignant disorders. The success of the therapy is hampered by occurrence of acute graft-versus-host disease (aGvHD); an inflammatory response damaging recipient organs, with gut, liver, and skin being the most susceptible. Intestinal GvHD injury is often a life-threatening complication in patients unresponsive to steroid treatment. Allogeneic mesenchymal stromal/stem cell (MSC) infusions are a promising potential treatment for steroid-resistant aGvHD. Data from our institution and others demonstrate rescue of approximately 40-50% of aGvHD patients with MSCs in Phase I, II studies and minor side effects. Although promising, better understanding of MSC mode of action and patient response to MSC-based therapy is essential to improve this lifesaving treatment. METHODS: Single cell human small intestine organoids were embedded in Matrigel, grown for 5 days and treated with busulfan for 48 h. Organoids damaged by treatment with busulfan or control organoids were co-cultured with 5000, 10,000, and 50,000 MSCs for 24 h, 48 h or 7 days and the analyses such as surface area determination, proliferation and apoptosis assessment, RNA sequencing and proteomics were performed. RESULTS: Here, we developed a 3D co-culture model of human small intestinal organoids and MSCs, which allows to study the regenerative effects of MSCs on intestinal epithelium in a more physiologically relevant setting than existing in vitro systems. Using this model we mimicked chemotherapy-mediated damage of the intestinal epithelium. The treatment with busulfan, the chemotherapeutic commonly used as conditioning regiment before the HSCT, affected pathways regulating epithelial to mesenchymal transition, proliferation, and apoptosis in small intestinal organoids, as shown by transcriptomic and proteomic analysis. The co-culture of busulfan-treated intestinal organoids with MSCs reversed the effects of busulfan on the transcriptome and proteome of intestinal epithelium, which we also confirmed by functional evaluation of proliferation and apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, we demonstrate that our in vitro co-culture system is a new valuable tool to facilitate the investigation of the molecular mechanisms behind the therapeutic effects of MSCs on damaged intestinal epithelium. This could benefit further optimization of the use of MSCs in HSCT patients.
PXD043340	38679739	Plasma ALS and Gal-3BP differentiate early from advanced liver fibrosis in MASLD patients. 	Plasma ALS and LG3BP predict liver fibrosis in NAFLD patients	plasma NAFLD biomarkers discovery	BACKGROUND: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is estimated to affect 30% of the world's population, and its prevalence is increasing in line with obesity. Liver fibrosis is closely related to mortality, making it the most important clinical parameter for MASLD. It is currently assessed by liver biopsy - an invasive procedure that has some limitations. There is thus an urgent need for a reliable non-invasive means to diagnose earlier MASLD stages. METHODS: A discovery study was performed on 158 plasma samples from histologically-characterised MASLD patients using mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative proteomics. Differentially abundant proteins were selected for verification by ELISA in the same cohort. They were subsequently validated in an independent MASLD cohort (n = 200). RESULTS: From the 72 proteins differentially abundant between patients with early (F0-2) and advanced fibrosis (F3-4), we selected Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein complex acid labile subunit (ALS) and Galectin-3-binding protein (Gal-3BP) for further study. In our validation cohort, AUROCs with 95% CIs of 0.744 [0.673 - 0.816] and 0.735 [0.661 - 0.81] were obtained for ALS and Gal-3BP, respectively. Combining ALS and Gal-3BP improved the assessment of advanced liver fibrosis, giving an AUROC of 0.796 [0.731. 0.862]. The {ALS; Gal-3BP} model surpassed classic fibrosis panels in predicting advanced liver fibrosis. CONCLUSIONS: Further investigations with complementary cohorts will be needed to confirm the usefulness of ALS and Gal-3BP individually and in combination with other biomarkers for diagnosis of liver fibrosis. With the availability of ELISA assays, these findings could be rapidly clinically translated, providing direct benefits for patients.
PXD041318	38680323	Comprehensive Proteomic Profiling of Aqueous Humor in Idiopathic Uveitis and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome. 	Comprehensive proteomic profiling of aqueous humor in idiopathic uveitis and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome	Idiopathic uveitis, VKH, XGBoost, aqueous humor	Idiopathic uveitis (IU) and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) syndrome are common types of uveitis. However, the exact pathological mechanisms of IU and VKH remain unclear. Proteomic analysis of aqueous humor (AH), the most easily accessible intraocular fluid and a key site of uveitis development, may reveal potential biomarkers and elucidate uveitis pathogenesis. In this study, 44 AH samples, including 12 IU cases, 16 VKH cases, and 16 controls, were subjected to label-free quantitative proteomic analysis. We identified 557 proteins from a comprehensive spectral library of 634 proteins across all samples. The AH proteomic profiles of the IU and VKH groups were different from those of the control group. Differential analysis revealed a shared pattern of extracellular matrix disruption and downregulation of retinal cellular proteins in the IU and VKH groups. Enrichment analysis revealed a protein composition indicative of inflammation in the AH of the IU and VKH groups but not in that of the control group. In the IU and VKH groups, innate immunity played an important role, as indicated by complement cascade activation and overexpression of innate immune cell markers. Extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), an efficient and robust machine learning algorithm, was subsequently used to screen potential biomarkers for classifying the IU, VKH, and control groups. Transferrin and complement factor B were deemed the most important and represent a promising biomarker panel. These proteins were validated by high-resolution multiple reaction monitoring (HR-MRM) in an independent validation cohort. A classification decision tree was subsequently built for the diagnosis. Our findings further the understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms in IU and VKH and facilitate the development of potential therapeutic and diagnostic strategies.
PXD039454	38682589	DNA-PK participates in pre-rRNA biogenesis independent of DNA double-strand break repair. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of DNA-PK substrates	DNA-PK, Phosphoproteomic, TMT	Although DNA-PK inhibitors (DNA-PK-i) have been applied in clinical trials for cancer treatment, the biomarkers and mechanism of action of DNA-PK-i in tumor cell suppression remain unclear. Here, we observed that a low dose of DNA-PK-i and PARP inhibitor (PARP-i) synthetically suppresses BRCA-deficient tumor cells without inducing DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). Instead, we found that a fraction of DNA-PK localized inside of nucleoli, where we did not observe obvious DSBs. Moreover, the Ku proteins recognize pre-rRNA that facilitates DNA-PKcs autophosphorylation independent of DNA damage. Ribosomal proteins are also phosphorylated by DNA-PK, which regulates pre-rRNA biogenesis. In addition, DNA-PK-i acts together with PARP-i to suppress pre-rRNA biogenesis and tumor cell growth. Collectively, our studies reveal a DNA damage repair-independent role of DNA-PK-i in tumor suppression.
PXD045793	38683788	Polyaminated, acetylated and stop codon readthrough of recombinant Francisella tularensis universal stress protein in Escherichia coli. 	Post-translationally modified and stop codon readthrough of recombinant Francisella tularensis Universal stress protein in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli pET expression system, Francisella tularensis Universal stress protein, acetylation, polyamination, stop codon readthrough, transglutaminase	Recombinant Francisella tularensis universal stress protein with a C-terminal histidine-tag (rUsp/His6) was expressed in Escherichia coli. Endogenous F. tularensis Usp has a predicted molecular mass of 30 kDa, but rUsp/His6 had an apparent molecular weight of 33 kDa based on Western blot analyses. To determine the source of the higher molecular weight for rUsp/His6, post translational modifications were examined. Tryptic peptides of purified rUsp/His6 were subjected to liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and fragmentation spectra were searched for acetylated lysines and polyaminated glutamines. Of the 24 lysines in rUsp/His6, 10 were acetylated (K63, K68, K72, K129, K175, K201, K208, K212, K233, and K238) and three of the four glutamines had putrescine, spermidine and spermine adducts (Q55, Q60 and Q267). The level of post-translational modification was substoichiometric, eliminating the possibility that these modifications were the sole contributor to the 3 kDa extra mass of rUsp/His6. LC-MS/MS revealed that stop codon readthrough had occurred resulting in the unexpected addition of 20 extra amino acids at the C-terminus of rUsp/His6, after the histidine tag. Further, the finding of polyaminated glutamines in rUsp/His6 indicated that E. coli is capable of transglutaminase activity.
PXD038573	38683963	A Targetable N-Terminal Motif Orchestrates alpha-Synuclein Oligomer-to-Fibril Conversion. 	HDX-MS of alpha-synuclein oligomers	HDX, amyloid, oligomer, synuclein	Oligomeric species populated during alpha-synuclein aggregation are considered key drivers of neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease. However, the development of oligomer-targeting therapeutics is constrained by our limited knowledge of their structure and the molecular determinants driving their conversion to fibrils. Phenol-soluble modulin alpha3 (PSMalpha3) is a nanomolar peptide binder of alpha-synuclein oligomers that inhibits aggregation by blocking oligomer-to-fibril conversion. Here, we investigate the binding of PSMalpha3 to alpha-synuclein oligomers to discover the mechanistic basis of this protective activity. We find that PSMalpha3 selectively targets an alpha-synuclein N-terminal motif (residues 36-61) that populates a distinct conformation in the mono- and oligomeric states. This alpha-synuclein region plays a pivotal role in oligomer-to-fibril conversion as its absence renders the central NAC domain insufficient to prompt this structural transition. The hereditary mutation G51D, associated with early onset Parkinson's disease, causes a conformational fluctuation in this region, leading to delayed oligomer-to-fibril conversion and an accumulation of oligomers that are resistant to remodeling by molecular chaperones. Overall, our findings unveil a new targetable region in alpha-synuclein oligomers, advance our comprehension of oligomer-to-amyloid fibril conversion, and reveal a new facet of alpha-synuclein pathogenic mutations.
PXD051085	38684656	Atypical heat shock transcription factor HSF5 is critical for male meiotic prophase under non-stress conditions. 	IP-MS analysis of HSF5 in mice	Meiosis, Spermatogenesis, testis	Meiotic prophase progression is differently regulated in males and females. In males, pachytene transition during meiotic prophase is accompanied by robust alteration in gene expression. However, how gene expression is regulated differently to ensure meiotic prophase completion in males remains elusive. Herein, we identify HSF5 as a male germ cell-specific heat shock transcription factor (HSF) for meiotic prophase progression. Genetic analyzes and single-cell RNA-sequencing demonstrate that HSF5 is essential for progression beyond the pachytene stage under non-stress conditions rather than heat stress. Chromatin binding analysis in vivo and DNA-binding assays in vitro suggest that HSF5 binds to promoters in a subset of genes associated with chromatin organization. HSF5 recognizes a DNA motif different from typical heat shock elements recognized by other canonical HSFs. This study suggests that HSF5 is an atypical HSF that is required for the gene expression program for pachytene transition during meiotic prophase in males.
PXD045000	38684663	CD8(+) T-cell responses towards conserved influenza B virus epitopes across anatomical sites and age. 	Influenza B-derived peptide presentation by HLA-B*07:02, -B*08:01 and -B*35:01	HLA, Immunopeptidome, Influenza, antigen processing and presentation	Influenza B viruses (IBVs) cause substantive morbidity and mortality, and yet immunity towards IBVs remains understudied. CD8(+) T-cells provide broadly cross-reactive immunity and alleviate disease severity by recognizing conserved epitopes. Despite the IBV burden, only 18 IBV-specific T-cell epitopes restricted by 5 HLAs have been identified currently. A broader array of conserved IBV T-cell epitopes is needed to develop effective cross-reactive T-cell based IBV vaccines. Here we identify 9 highly conserved IBV CD8(+) T-cell epitopes restricted to HLA-B*07:02, HLA-B*08:01 and HLA-B*35:01. Memory IBV-specific tetramer(+)CD8(+) T-cells are present within blood and tissues. Frequencies of IBV-specific CD8(+) T-cells decline with age, but maintain a central memory phenotype. HLA-B*07:02 and HLA-B*08:01-restricted NP30-38 epitope-specific T-cells have distinct T-cell receptor repertoires. We provide structural basis for the IBV HLA-B*07:02-restricted NS1196-206 (11-mer) and HLA-B*07:02-restricted NP30-38 epitope presentation. Our study increases the number of IBV CD8(+) T-cell epitopes, and defines IBV-specific CD8(+) T-cells at cellular and molecular levels, across tissues and age.
PXD042935	38685067	Deubiquitination of CDC6 by OTUD6A promotes tumour progression and chemoresistance. 	Deubiquitination ofCDC6by OTUD6A promotes tumour progression and chemoresistance	Deubiquitinase, HEK293, OTUD6A	BACKGROUND: CDC6 is an oncogenic protein whose expression level fluctuates during the cell cycle. Although several E3 ubiquitin ligases responsible for the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of CDC6 have been identified, the deubiquitination pathway for CDC6 has not been investigated. METHODS: The proteome-wide deubiquitinase (DUB) screening was used to identify the potential regulator of CDC6. Immunofluorescence, protein half-life and deubiquitination assays were performed to determine the protein stability of CDC6. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments were implemented to analyse the impacts of OUTD6A-CDC6 axis on tumour growth and chemosensitivity in vitro. N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine (BBN)-induced conditional Otud6a knockout (CKO) mouse model and tumour xenograft model were performed to analyse the role of OTUD6A-CDC6 axis in vivo. Tissue specimens were used to determine the association between OTUD6A and CDC6. RESULTS: OTUD6A interacts with, depolyubiquitinates and stabilizes CDC6 by removing K6-, K33-, and K48-linked polyubiquitination. Moreover, OTUD6A promotes cell proliferation and decreases sensitivity to chemotherapy by upregulating CDC6. CKO mice are less prone to BCa tumorigenesis induced by BBN, and knockdown of OTUD6A inhibits tumour progression in vivo. Furthermore, OTUD6A protein level has a positive correlation with CDC6 protein level, and high protein levels of OTUD6A and CDC6 are associated with poor prognosis in patients with bladder cancer. CONCLUSIONS: We reveal an important yet missing piece of novel DUB governing CDC6 stability. In addition, our findings propose a model for the OTUD6A-CDC6 axis that provides novel insights into cell cycle and chemosensitivity regulation, which may become a potential biomarker and promising drug target for cancer treatment.
PXD051459	38685100	The TP53-activated E3 ligase RNF144B is a tumour suppressor that prevents genomic instability. 	The TP53-activated E3 ligase RNF144B is a tumour suppressor that prevents genomic instability	aneuploidy, cancer, genomic instability, tumor suppressor	BACKGROUND: TP53, the most frequently mutated gene in human cancers, orchestrates a complex transcriptional program crucial for cancer prevention. While certain TP53-dependent genes have been extensively studied, others, like the recently identified RNF144B, remained poorly understood. This E3 ubiquitin ligase has shown potent tumor suppressor activity in murine Emu Myc-driven lymphoma, emphasizing its significance in the TP53 network. However, little is known about its targets and its role in cancer development, requiring further exploration. In this work, we investigate RNF144B's impact on tumor suppression beyond the hematopoietic compartment in human cancers. METHODS: Employing TP53 wild-type cells, we generated models lacking RNF144B in both non-transformed and cancerous cells of human and mouse origin. By using proteomics, transcriptomics, and functional analysis, we assessed RNF144B's impact in cellular proliferation and transformation. Through in vitro and in vivo experiments, we explored proliferation, DNA repair, cell cycle control, mitotic progression, and treatment resistance. Findings were contrasted with clinical datasets and bioinformatics analysis. RESULTS: Our research underscores RNF144B's pivotal role as a tumor suppressor, particularly in lung adenocarcinoma. In both human and mouse oncogene-expressing cells, RNF144B deficiency heightened cellular proliferation and transformation. Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis revealed RNF144B's novel function in mediating protein degradation associated with cell cycle progression, DNA damage response and genomic stability. RNF144B deficiency induced chromosomal instability, mitotic defects, and correlated with elevated aneuploidy and worse prognosis in human tumors. Furthermore, RNF144B-deficient lung adenocarcinoma cells exhibited resistance to cell cycle inhibitors that induce chromosomal instability. CONCLUSIONS: Supported by clinical data, our study suggests that RNF144B plays a pivotal role in maintaining genomic stability during tumor suppression.
PXD027861	38686791	The uS10c-BPG2 module mediates ribosomal RNA processing in chloroplast nucleoids. 	Data independent acquisition for Arabidopsis	BPG2, Plastid Ribosomal Protein S10	In plant chloroplasts, certain ribosomal proteins (RPs) and ribosome biogenesis factors (RBFs) are present in nucleoids, implying an association between nucleoids and ribosome biogenesis. In Arabidopsis, the YqeH-type GTPase Brassinazole-Insensitive Pale Green2 (BPG2) is a chloroplast nucleoid-associated RBF. Here, we investigated the relationship between nucleoids and BPG2-involved ribosome biogenesis steps by exploring how BPG2 targets ribosomes. Our findings demonstrate that BPG2 interacts with an essential plastid RP, uS10c, in chloroplast nucleoids in a ribosomal RNA (rRNA)-independent manner. We also discovered that uS10c is a haploinsufficient gene, as the heterozygous deletion of this gene leads to variegated shoots and chlorophyll aggregation. uS10c is integrated into 30S ribosomal particles when rRNA is relatively exposed and also exists in polysome fractions. In contrast, BPG2 exclusively associates with 30S ribosomal particles. Notably, the interaction between BPG2 and 30S particles is influenced by the absence of uS10c, resulting in BPG2 diffusing in chloroplasts instead of targeting nucleoids. Further, our results reveal that the loss of BPG2 function and the heterozygous deletion of uS10c impair the processing of 16S and 23S-4.5S rRNAs, reduce plastid protein accumulation, and trigger the plastid signaling response. Together, these findings indicate that the uS10c-BPG2 module mediates ribosome biogenesis in chloroplast nucleoids.
PXD050878	38687323	HCMV US2 co-opts TRC8 to degrade the endoplasmic reticulum-resident protein LMAN2L. 	HCMV US2 co-opts TRC8 to degrade the ER-resident protein LMAN2L	Cytomegalovirus, plasma membrane, protein degradation, protein trafficking	The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) pUS2 glycoprotein exploits the host's endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation (ERAD) pathway to degrade major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) and prevent antigen presentation. Beyond MHC-I, pUS2 has been shown to target a range of cellular proteins for degradation, preventing their cell surface expression. Here we have identified a novel pUS2 target, ER-resident protein lectin mannose binding 2 like (LMAN2L). pUS2 expression was both necessary and sufficient for the downregulation of LMAN2L, which was dependent on the cellular E3 ligase TRC8. Given the hypothesized role of LMAN2L in the trafficking of glycoproteins, we employed proteomic plasma membrane profiling to measure LMAN2L-dependent changes at the cell surface. A known pUS2 target, integrin alpha-6 (ITGA6), was downregulated from the surface of LMAN2L-deficient cells, but not other integrins. Overall, these results suggest a novel strategy of pUS2-mediated protein degradation whereby pUS2 targets LMAN2L to impair trafficking of ITGA6. Given that pUS2 can directly target other integrins, we propose that this single viral protein may exhibit both direct and indirect mechanisms to downregulate key cell surface molecules.
PXD044973	38688280	GPATCH8 modulates mutant SF3B1 mis-splicing and pathogenicity in hematologic malignancies. 	GPATCH8 modulates mutant SF3B1 mis-splicing and pathogenicity in hematologic malignancies	DHX15, G-patch domain, GPATCH8, Leukemia, Myelodysplastic Syndromes, RNA, SF3B1, SUGP1., Splicing	Mutations in the RNA splicing factor gene SF3B1 are common across hematologic and solid cancers and result in widespread alterations in splicing, yet there is currently no therapeutic means to correct this mis-splicing. Here, we utilize synthetic introns uniquely responsive to mutant SF3B1 to identify trans factors required for aberrant mutant SF3B1 splicing activity. This revealed the G-patch domain-containing protein GPATCH8 as required for mutant SF3B1-induced splicing alterations and impaired hematopoiesis. GPATCH8 is involved in quality control of branchpoint selection, interacts with the RNA helicase DHX15, and functionally opposes SURP and G-patch domain containing 1 (SUGP1), a G-patch protein recently implicated in SF3B1-mutant diseases. Silencing of GPATCH8 corrected one-third of mutant SF3B1-dependent splicing defects and was sufficient to improve dysfunctional hematopoiesis in SF3B1-mutant mice and primary human progenitors. These data identify GPATCH8 as a novel splicing factor required for mis-splicing by mutant SF3B1 and highlight the therapeutic impact of correcting aberrant splicing in SF3B1-mutant cancers.
PXD047498	38688559	Suppression of the E. coli rnpA49 conditionally lethal phenotype by different compensatory mutations. 	Suppression of the E. coli rnpA49 conditionally lethal phenotype via different compensatory mutations	Gene amplification, Lon, RNase P, RNase R, Suppressor mutation, Temperature-sensitivity	RNase P is an essential enzyme found across all domains of life that is responsible for the 5'-end maturation of precursor tRNAs. For decades, numerous studies have sought to elucidate the mechanisms and biochemistry governing RNase P function. However, much remains unknown about the regulation of RNase P expression, the turnover and degradation of the enzyme, and the mechanisms underlying the phenotypes and complementation of specific RNase P mutations, especially in the model bacterium, Escherichia coli. In E. coli, the temperature-sensitive rnpA49 mutation in the protein subunit of RNase P has arguably been one of the most well-studied mutations for examining the enzyme's activity in vivo. Here, we report for the first time naturally-occurring temperature-resistant suppressor mutations of E. coli strains carrying the rnpA49 allele. We find that rnpA49 strains can partially compensate the temperature-sensitive defect via gene amplifications of either RNase P subunit (rnpA49 or rnpB) or by the acquisition of loss-of-function mutations in Lon protease or RNase R. Our results agree with previous plasmid overexpression and gene deletion complementation studies, and importantly suggest the involvement of Lon protease in the degradation and/or regulatory pathway(s) of the mutant protein subunit of RNase P. This work offers novel insights into the behavior and complementation of the rnpA49 allele in vivo and provides direction for follow-up studies regarding RNase P regulation and turnover in E. coli.
PXD041227	38689020	Immunopeptidome mining reveals a novel ERS-induced target in T1D. 	Ubiquitin Thioesterase OTUB2 is An Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress-associated beta Cell Autoantigen Targeted by CD8+ T cells in Type 1 Diabetes	CD8+ T-cell., Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress, OTUB2, Type 1 Diabetes	Autoreactive CD8(+) T cells play a key role in type 1 diabetes (T1D), but the antigen spectrum that activates autoreactive CD8(+) T cells remains unclear. Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) has been implicated in beta-cell autoantigen generation. Here, we analyzed the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I)-associated immunopeptidome (MIP) of islet beta-cells under steady and ERS conditions and found that ERS reshaped the MIP of beta-cells and promoted the MHC-I presentation of a panel of conventional self-peptides. Among them, OTUB258-66 showed immunodominance, and the corresponding autoreactive CD8(+) T cells were diabetogenic in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice. High glucose intake upregulated pancreatic OTUB2 expression and amplified the OTUB258-66-specific CD8(+) T-cell response in NOD mice. Repeated OTUB258-66 administration significantly reduced the incidence of T1D in NOD mice. Interestingly, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with T1D, but not from healthy controls, showed a positive IFN-gamma response to human OTUB2 peptides. This study provides not only a new explanation for the role of ERS in promoting beta-cell-targeted autoimmunity but also a potential target for the prevention and treatment of T1D. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD041227.
PXD050357	38690294	Proteomic analysis reveals a potential role for extracellular vesicles within the erythroblastic island niche. 	KLF1-activated macrophages proteomic analysis	Erythroid Island niche, KLF1, Macrophages, iPSCs	Introduction: Erythroblastic island (EBI) macrophages play an essential role in the production and maturation of the vast numbers of red blood cells (RBCs) that are produced throughout life. Their location within the bone marrow makes it difficult to study the cellular and molecular interactions associated with their action so we have used an in vitro model of the EBI niche using macrophages derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). We previously demonstrated that the activation of the transcription factor KLF1 enhanced the activity of hiPSC-derived EBI macrophages. Methods: To elucidate the mechanisms associated with EBI-like activity we carried out a quantitative proteomic analysis and assessed the role of extracellular vesicles using Nanosight Tracking analyses and media filtration. Results and Discussion: Gene ontology analysis showed that many of the proteins upregulated by KLF1 were protein-binding factors, some of which were associated with the cell membrane or extracellular vesicles We demonstrated that filtration of macrophage-conditioned media resulted in a reduction in the supportive effects on erythroid cell viability and maturation implying a role for extracellular vesicles but this was not KLF1 dependent. Pathway analyses of the proteomic data revealed that proteins upregulated by KLF1 were associated with the citric acid cycle, pyruvate metabolism and ATP synthesis indicating that KLF1-activated macrophages had a metabolic profile comparable to a pro-reparative phenotype. This study has generated a proteomic dataset that could provide new insights into the role of macrophages within the EBI niche and has indicated a potential role for extracellular vesicles in the differentiation and maturation of RBCs in vitro. Further research will aid in the production of RBCs in vitro for use in disease modelling and cell therapy.
PXD043200	38690930	IGF1 promotes human myotube differentiation toward a mature metabolic and contractile phenotype. 	Engineering of human myotubes towards a mature metabolic and contractile phenotype	IGF, Myotubes, immunohistochemistry	Skeletal muscle mediates the beneficial effects of exercise, thereby improving insulin sensitivity and reducing the risk for type 2 diabetes. Current human skeletal muscle models in vitro are incapable of fully recapitulating its physiological functions especially muscle contractility. By supplementation of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), a growth factor secreted by myofibers in vivo, we aimed to overcome these limitations. We monitored the differentiation process starting from primary human CD56-positive myoblasts in the presence/absence of IGF1 in serum-free medium in daily collected samples for 10 days. IGF1-supported differentiation formed thicker multinucleated myotubes showing physiological contraction upon electrical pulse stimulation following day 6. Myotubes without IGF1 were almost incapable of contraction. IGF1-treatment shifted the proteome toward skeletal muscle-specific proteins that contribute to myofibril and sarcomere assembly, striated muscle contraction, and ATP production. Elevated PPARGC1A, MYH7 and reduced MYH1/2 suggest a more oxidative phenotype further demonstrated by higher abundance of proteins of the respiratory chain and elevated mitochondrial respiration. IGF1-treatment also upregulated GLUT4 and increased insulin-dependent glucose uptake compared to myotubes differentiated without IGF1. To conclude, addition of IGF1 to serum-free medium significantly improves the differentiation of human myotubes that showed enhanced myofibril formation, response to electrical pulse stimulation, oxidative respiratory capacity and glucose metabolism overcoming limitations of previous standards. This novel protocol enables investigation of muscular exercise on a molecular level.
PXD048017	38696595	Quantitative proteomics of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex reveals an early pattern of synaptic dysmaturation in children with idiopathic autism. 	Quantitative Proteomics of Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex	Autism, Brodmann area 9, childhood	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder with a rising prevalence and unknown etiology presenting with deficits in cognition and abnormal behavior. We hypothesized that the investigation of the synaptic component of prefrontal cortex may provide proteomic signatures that may identify the biological underpinnings of cognitive deficits in childhood ASD. Subcellular fractions of synaptosomes from prefrontal cortices of age-, brain area-, and postmortem-interval-matched samples from children and adults with idiopathic ASD vs. controls were subjected to HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry. Analysis of data revealed the enrichment of ASD risk genes that participate in slow maturation of the postsynaptic density (PSD) structure and function during early brain development. Proteomic analysis revealed down regulation of PSD-related proteins including AMPA and NMDA receptors, GRM3, DLG4, olfactomedins, Shank1-3, Homer1, CaMK2alpha, NRXN1, NLGN2, Drebrin1, ARHGAP32, and Dock9 in children with autism (FDR-adjusted P < 0.05). In contrast, PSD-related alterations were less severe or unchanged in adult individuals with ASD. Network analyses revealed glutamate receptor abnormalities. Overall, the proteomic data support the concept that idiopathic autism is a synaptopathy involving PSD-related ASD risk genes. Interruption in evolutionarily conserved slow maturation of the PSD complex in prefrontal cortex may lead to the development of ASD in a susceptible individual.
PXD047307	38696819	A Workflow for Improved Analysis of Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Data Integrating Parallel Accumulation-Serial Fragmentation with MeroX and Skyline. 	Peptide centric detection of cross-linked peptides using PASEF, MeroX, and Skyline	DDA, DIA, PASEF, Peptide-centric, XL-MS	Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has evolved into a pivotal technique for probing protein interactions. This study describes the implementation of Parallel Accumulation-Serial Fragmentation (PASEF) on timsTOF instruments, enhancing the detection and analysis of protein interactions by XL-MS. Addressing the challenges in XL-MS, such as the interpretation of complex spectra, low abundant cross-linked peptides, and a data acquisition bias, our current study integrates a peptide-centric approach for the analysis of XL-MS data and presents the foundation for integrating data-independent acquisition (DIA) in XL-MS with a vendor-neutral and open-source platform. A novel workflow is described for processing data-dependent acquisition (DDA) of PASEF-derived information. For this, software by Bruker Daltonics is used, enabling the conversion of these data into a format that is compatible with MeroX and Skyline software tools. Our approach significantly improves the identification of cross-linked products from complex mixtures, allowing the XL-MS community to overcome current analytical limitations.
PXD051117	38697125	NRDE2 deficiency impairs homologous recombination repair and sensitizes hepatocellular carcinoma to PARP inhibitors. 	Mass spectrometry-based protein interactome and phosphoproteomics data upon NRDE2 overexpression	Interactome, NRDE2, phosphoproteomics	To identify novel susceptibility genes for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), we performed a rare-variant association study in Chinese populations consisting of 2,750 cases and 4,153 controls. We identified four HCC-associated genes, including NRDE2, RANBP17, RTEL1, and STEAP3. Using NRDE2 (index rs199890497 [p.N377I], p = 1.19 x 10(-9)) as an exemplary candidate, we demonstrated that it promotes homologous recombination (HR) repair and suppresses HCC. Mechanistically, NRDE2 binds to the subunits of casein kinase 2 (CK2) and facilitates the assembly and activity of the CK2 holoenzyme. This NRDE2-mediated enhancement of CK2 activity increases the phosphorylation of MDC1 and then facilitates the HR repair. These functions are eliminated almost completely by the NRDE2-p.N377I variant, which sensitizes the HCC cells to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors, especially when combined with chemotherapy. Collectively, our findings highlight the relevance of the rare variants to genetic susceptibility to HCC, which would be helpful for the precise treatment of this malignancy.
PXD043497	38698559	Cerebrospinal fluid proteomic profile of frailty: Results from the PROLIPHYC cohort. 	Cerebrospinal Fluid Proteomics of Frailty	LCR Proteomics FRAILTY	Frailty is a clinical state reflecting a decrease in physiological reserve capacities, known to affect numerous biological pathways and is associated with health issues, including neurodegenerative diseases. However, how global protein expression is affected in the central nervous system in frail subject remains underexplored. In this post hoc cross-sectional biomarker analysis, we included 90 adults (52-85 years) suspected of normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) and presenting with markers of neurodegenerative diseases. We investigated the human proteomic profile of cerebrospinal fluid associated with frailty defined by an established cumulated frailty index (FI, average = 0.32), not enriched for neurology clinical features. Using a label-free quantitative proteomic approach, we identified and quantified 999 proteins of which 13 were positively associated with frailty. Pathway analysis with the top positively frailty-associated proteins revealed enrichment for proteins related to inflammation and immune response. Among the 60 proteins negatively associated with frailty, functional pathways enriched included neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and neuronal guidance. We constructed a frailty prediction model using ridge regression with 932 standardized proteins. Our results showed that the "proteomic model" could become an equivalent predictor of FI in order to study chronological age. This study represents the first comprehensive exploration of the proteomic profile of frailty within cerebrospinal fluid. It sheds light on the physiopathology of frailty, particularly highlighting processes of neuroinflammation and inhibition of neurogenesis. Our findings unveil a range of biological mechanisms that are dysregulated in frailty, in NPH subjects at risk of neurodegenerative impairment, offering new perspectives on frailty phenotyping and prediction.
PXD044326	38698660	Structural Characterization of Monoclonal Antibodies and Epitope Mapping by FFAP Footprinting. 	Antibody Characterisation using FFAP	FFAP, Togni agents, covalent labeling, protein structure	Covalent labeling in combination with mass spectrometry is a powerful approach used in structural biology to study protein structures, interactions, and dynamics. Recently, the toolbox of covalent labeling techniques has been expanded with fast fluoroalkylation of proteins (FFAP). FFAP is a novel radical labeling method that utilizes fluoroalkyl radicals generated from hypervalent Togni reagents for targeting aromatic residues. This report further demonstrates the benefits of FFAP as a new method for structural characterization of therapeutic antibodies and interaction interfaces of antigen-antibody complexes. The results obtained from human trastuzumab and its complex with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) correlate well with previously published structural data and demonstrate the potential of FFAP in structural biology.
PXD049002	38699779	Fracture haematoma proteomics. 	Fracture hematoma proteomics: surgical invasiveness characterizes the early fracture healing cascade after multiple trauma	Fracture Hematoma, LC-MS, Trauma	Aims: The aim of this study was to determine the fracture haematoma (fxH) proteome after multiple trauma using label-free proteomics, comparing two different fracture treatment strategies. Methods: A porcine multiple trauma model was used in which two fracture treatment strategies were compared: early total care (ETC) and damage control orthopaedics (DCO). fxH was harvested and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Per group, discriminating proteins were identified and protein interaction analyses were performed to further elucidate key biomolecular pathways in the early fracture healing phase. Results: The early fxH proteome was characterized by immunomodulatory and osteogenic proteins, and proteins involved in the coagulation cascade. Treatment-specific proteome alterations were observed. The fxH proteome of the ETC group showed increased expression of pro-inflammatory proteins related to, among others, activation of the complement system, neutrophil functioning, and macrophage activation, while showing decreased expression of proteins related to osteogenesis and tissue remodelling. Conversely, the fxH proteome of the DCO group contained various upregulated or exclusively detected proteins related to tissue regeneration and remodelling, and proteins related to anti-inflammatory and osteogenic processes. Conclusion: The early fxH proteome of the ETC group was characterized by the expression of immunomodulatory, mainly pro-inflammatory, proteins, whereas the early fxH proteome of the DCO group was more regenerative and osteogenic in nature. These findings match clinical observations, in which enhanced surgical trauma after multiple trauma causes dysbalanced inflammation, potentially leading to reduced tissue regeneration, and gained insights into regulatory mechanisms of fracture healing after severe trauma.
PXD050542	38700954	Comparative Proteomics Identified EXOSC1 as a Target Protein of Anticancer Peptide LVTX-8 in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Cells. 	Proteomic data of human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells	LVTX-8, nasopharyngeal carcinoma	Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a prevalent malignancy that usually occurs among the nose and throat. Due to mild initial symptoms, most patients are diagnosed in the late stage, and the recurrence rate of tumors is high, resulting in many deaths every year. Traditional radiotherapy and chemotherapy are prone to causing drug resistance and significant side effects. Therefore, searching for new bioactive drugs including anticancer peptides is necessary and urgent. LVTX-8 is a peptide toxin synthesized from the cDNA library of the spider Lycosa vittata, which is consisting of 25 amino acids. In this study, a series of in vitro cell experiments such as cell toxicity, colony formation, and cell migration assays were performed to exam the anticancer activity of LVTX-8 in NPC cells (5-8F and CNE-2). The results suggested that LVTX-8 significantly inhibited cell proliferation and migration of NPC cells. To find the potential molecular targets for the anticancer capability of LVTX-8, high-throughput proteomic and bioinformatics analysis were conducted on NPC cells. The results identified EXOSC1 as a potential target protein with significantly differential expression levels under LVTX-8+/LVTX-8- conditions. The results in this research indicate that spider peptide toxin LVTX-8 exhibits significant anticancer activity in NPC, and EXOSC1 may serve as a target protein for its anticancer activity. These findings provide a reference for the development of new therapeutic drugs for NPC and offer new ideas for the discovery of biomarkers related to NPC diagnosis. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (https://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org) via the iProX partner repository with the data set identifier PXD050542.
PXD046550	38701233	Longitudinal Fluctuations in Protein Concentrations and Higher-Order Structures in the Plasma Proteome of Kidney Failure Patients Subjected to a Kidney Transplant. 	Longitudinal fluctuations in protein concentrations and higher-order structures in the plasma proteome of patients enduring a kidney transplant: two in-depth case studies	acute phase, bottom-up MS, complexome profiling, medical proteomics, plasma	Using proteomics and complexome profiling, we evaluated in a year-long study longitudinal variations in the plasma proteome of kidney failure patients, prior to and after a kidney transplantation. The post-transplant period was complicated by bacterial infections, resulting in dramatic changes in the proteome, attributed to an acute phase response (APR). As positive acute phase proteins (APPs), being elevated upon inflammation, we observed the well-described C-reactive protein and Serum Amyloid A (SAA), but also Fibrinogen, Haptoglobin, Leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein, Lipopolysaccharide-binding protein, Alpha-1-antitrypsin, Alpha-1-antichymotrypsin, S100, and CD14. As negative APPs, being downregulated upon inflammation, we identified the well-documented Serotransferrin and Transthyretin, but added Kallistatin, Heparin cofactor 2, and interalpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H1 and H2 (ITIH1, ITIH2). For the patient with the most severe APR, we performed plasma complexome profiling by SEC-LC-MS on all longitudinal samples. We observed that several plasma proteins displaying alike concentration patterns coelute and form macromolecular complexes. By complexome profiling, we expose how SAA1 and SAA2 become incorporated into high-density lipid particles, replacing largely Apolipoprotein (APO)A1 and APOA4. Overall, our data highlight that the combination of in-depth longitudinal plasma proteome and complexome profiling can shed further light on correlated variations in the abundance of several plasma proteins upon inflammatory events.
PXD047461	38701337	Multimodal Mass Spectrometry Identifies a Conserved Protective Epitope in S. pyogenes Streptolysin O. 	De novo sequencing of an unknown monoclonal antibody using BU-MS and elucidation of the neutralizing antibody-Streptolysin O complex via cross-linking and hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry	antibody-antigen binding, host-pathogen interaction, structural proteomics	An important element of antibody-guided vaccine design is the use of neutralizing or opsonic monoclonal antibodies to define protective epitopes in their native three-dimensional conformation. Here, we demonstrate a multimodal mass spectrometry-based strategy for in-depth characterization of antigen-antibody complexes to enable the identification of protective epitopes using the cytolytic exotoxin Streptolysin O (SLO) from Streptococcus pyogenes as a showcase. We first discovered a monoclonal antibody with an undisclosed sequence capable of neutralizing SLO-mediated cytolysis. The amino acid sequence of both the antibody light and the heavy chain was determined using mass-spectrometry-based de novo sequencing, followed by chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry to generate distance constraints between the antibody fragment antigen-binding region and SLO. Subsequent integrative computational modeling revealed a discontinuous epitope located in domain 3 of SLO that was experimentally validated by hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry and reverse engineering of the targeted epitope. The results show that the antibody inhibits SLO-mediated cytolysis by binding to a discontinuous epitope in domain 3, likely preventing oligomerization and subsequent secondary structure transitions critical for pore-formation. The epitope is highly conserved across >98% of the characterized S. pyogenes isolates, making it an attractive target for antibody-based therapy and vaccine design against severe streptococcal infections.
PXD047165	38701777	Unraveling the impact of ZZZ3 on the mTOR/ribosome pathway in human embryonic stem cells homeostasis. 	Analysis of the ZZZ3 interactome in human embryonic stem cells	Human embryonic stem cells, ZZZ3	Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are defined as stem cells with self-renewing and differentiation capabilities. These unique properties are tightly regulated and controlled by complex genetic and molecular mechanisms, whose understanding is essential for both basic and translational research. A large number of studies have mostly focused on understanding the molecular mechanisms governing pluripotency and differentiation of ESCs, while the regulation of proliferation has received comparably less attention. Here, we investigate the role of ZZZ3 (zinc finger ZZ-type containing 3) in human ESCs homeostasis. We found that knockdown of ZZZ3 negatively impacts ribosome biogenesis, translation, and mTOR signaling, leading to a significant reduction in cell proliferation. This process occurs without affecting pluripotency, suggesting that ZZZ3-depleted ESCs enter a "dormant-like" state and that proliferation and pluripotency can be uncoupled also in human ESCs.
PXD050324	38702017	The Hansenula polymorpha mitochondrial carrier family protein Mir1 is dually localized at peroxisomes and mitochondria. 	The Hansenula polymorpha Mitochondrial Carrier Family protein Mir1  is dually localized at peroxisomes and mitochondria	Mir1, Peroxisomes, dual localization, mitochondria, mitochondrial carrier family, transporter proteins	Peroxisomes are ubiquitous cell organelles involved in various metabolic pathways. In order to properly function, several cofactors, substrates and products of peroxisomal enzymes need to pass the organellar membrane. So far only a few transporter proteins have been identified. We analysed peroxisomal membrane fractions purified from the yeast Hansenula polymorpha by untargeted label-free quantitation mass spectrometry. As expected, several known peroxisome-associated proteins were enriched in the peroxisomal membrane fraction. In addition, several other proteins were enriched, including mitochondrial transport proteins. Localization studies revealed that one of them, the mitochondrial phosphate carrier Mir1, has a dual localization on mitochondria and peroxisomes. To better understand the molecular mechanisms of dual sorting, we localized Mir1 in cells lacking Pex3 or Pex19, two peroxins that play a role in targeting of peroxisomal membrane proteins. In these cells Mir1 only localized to mitochondria, indicating that Pex3 and Pex19 are required to sort Mir1 to peroxisomes. Analysis of the localization of truncated versions of Mir1 in wild-type H. polymorpha cells revealed that most of them localized to mitochondria, but only one, consisting of the transmembrane domains 3-6, was peroxisomal. Peroxisomal localization of this construct was lost in a MIR1 deletion strain, indicating that full-length Mir1 was required for the localization of the truncated protein to peroxisomes. Our data suggest that only full-length Mir1 sorts to peroxisomes, while Mir1 contains multiple regions with mitochondrial sorting information. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD050324.
PXD047604	38702145	Favorable impact of PD1/PD-L1 antagonists on bone remodeling: an exploratory prospective clinical study and ex vivo validation. 	Impact of PD1/PD-L1 Inhibition on Bone Remodeling: a Prospective Clinical Study and ex-vivo Validation.	3D model, bone remodeling, data-independent acquisition, immune-checkpoint inhibitors	BACKGROUND: Skeletal morbidity in patients with cancer has a major impact on the quality of life, and preserving bone health while improving outcomes is an important goal of modern antitumor treatment strategies. Despite their widespread use in early disease stages, the effects of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) on the skeleton are still poorly defined. Here, we initiated a comprehensive investigation of the impact of ICIs on bone health by longitudinal assessment of bone turnover markers in patients with cancer and by validation in a novel bioengineered 3D model of bone remodeling. METHODS: An exploratory longitudinal study was conducted to assess serum markers of bone resorption (C-terminal telopeptide, CTX) and formation (procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide, PINP, and osteocalcin, OCN) before each ICI application (programmed cell death 1 (PD1) inhibitor or programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitor) for 6 months or until disease progression in patients with advanced cancer and no evidence of bone metastases. To validate the in vivo results, we evaluated osteoclast (OC) and osteoblast (OB) differentiation on treatment with ICIs. In addition, their effect on bone remodeling was assessed by immunohistochemistry, confocal microscopy, and proteomics analysis in a dynamic 3D bone model. RESULTS: During the first month of treatment, CTX levels decreased sharply but transiently. In contrast, we observed a delayed increase of serum levels of PINP and OCN after 4 months of therapy. In vitro, ICIs impaired the maturation of preosteoclasts by inhibiting STAT3/NFATc1 signaling but not JNK, ERK, and AKT while lacking any direct effect on osteogenesis. However, using our bioengineered 3D bone model, which enables the simultaneous differentiation of OB and OC precursor cells, we confirmed the uncoupling of the OC/OB activity on exposure to ICIs by demonstrating impaired OC maturation along with increased OB differentiation. CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that the inhibition of the PD1/PD-L1 signaling axis interferes with bone turnover and may exert a protective effect on bone by indirectly promoting osteogenesis.
PXD050381	38703364	Improved detection of DNA replication fork-associated proteins. 	Improved detection of DNA replication fork-associated proteins via iPOND2-DRIPPER	Mouse embryonic fibroblasts, quantitative proteomics, replisome	Innovative methods to retrieve proteins associated with actively replicating DNA have provided a glimpse into the molecular dynamics of replication fork stalling. We report that a combination of density-based replisome enrichment by isolating proteins on nascent DNA (iPOND2) and label-free quantitative mass spectrometry (iPOND2-DRIPPER) substantially increases both replication factor yields and the dynamic range of protein quantification. Replication protein abundance in retrieved nascent DNA is elevated up to 300-fold over post-replicative controls, and recruitment of replication stress factors upon fork stalling is observed at similar levels. The increased sensitivity of iPOND2-DRIPPER permits direct measurement of ubiquitination events without intervening retrieval of diglycine tryptic fragments of ubiquitin. Using this approach, we find that stalled replisomes stimulate the recruitment of a diverse cohort of DNA repair factors, including those associated with poly-K63-ubiquitination. Finally, we uncover the temporally controlled association of stalled replisomes with nuclear pore complex components and nuclear cytoskeleton networks.
PXD044446	38703770	The MYCN oncoprotein is an RNA-binding accessory factor of the nuclear exosome targeting complex. 	The MYCN oncoprotein is an RNA-binding protein that promotes nascent RNA turnover via the NEXT targeting complex of the nuclear exosome	MAX, MNT, MXD, MYC, MYCN, NEXT, ZCCHC8, eCLIP, exosome, intron, neuroblastoma	The MYCN oncoprotein binds active promoters in a heterodimer with its partner protein MAX. MYCN also interacts with the nuclear exosome, a 3'-5' exoribonuclease complex, suggesting a function in RNA metabolism. Here, we show that MYCN forms stable high-molecular-weight complexes with the exosome and multiple RNA-binding proteins. MYCN binds RNA in vitro and in cells via a conserved sequence termed MYCBoxI. In cells, MYCN associates with thousands of intronic transcripts together with the ZCCHC8 subunit of the nuclear exosome targeting complex and enhances their processing. Perturbing exosome function results in global re-localization of MYCN from promoters to intronic RNAs. On chromatin, MYCN is then replaced by the MNT(MXD6) repressor protein, inhibiting MYCN-dependent transcription. RNA-binding-deficient alleles show that RNA-binding limits MYCN's ability to activate cell growth-related genes but is required for MYCN's ability to promote progression through S phase and enhance the stress resilience of neuroblastoma cells.
PXD046117	38704026	The mitochondrial tRNA-derived fragment, mt-tRF-Leu(TAA), couples mitochondrial metabolism to insulin secretion. 	Fragmentation of mitochondrial mt-tRNA-LeuTAA provides a regulator of metabolic physiology	Mitochondrial tRNA, insulin secretion, insulin sensitivity, mitochondrial metabolism, tRNA-derived fragment	OBJECTIVE: The contribution of the mitochondrial electron transfer system to insulin secretion involves more than just energy provision. We identified a small RNA fragment (mt-tRF-Leu(TAA)) derived from the cleavage of a mitochondrially-encoded tRNA that is conserved between mice and humans. The role of mitochondrially-encoded tRNA-derived fragments remains unknown. This study aimed to characterize the impact of mt-tRF-Leu(TAA), on mitochondrial metabolism and pancreatic islet functions. METHODS: We used antisense oligonucleotides to reduce mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) levels in primary rat and human islet cells, as well as in insulin-secreting cell lines. We performed a joint transcriptome and proteome analysis upon mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) inhibition. Additionally, we employed pull-down assays followed by mass spectrometry to identify direct interactors of the fragment. Finally, we characterized the impact of mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) silencing on the coupling between mitochondrial metabolism and insulin secretion using high-resolution respirometry and insulin secretion assays. RESULTS: Our study unveils a modulation of mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) levels in pancreatic islets in different Type 2 diabetes models and in response to changes in nutritional status. The level of the fragment is finely tuned by the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1. Located within mitochondria, mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) interacts with core subunits and assembly factors of respiratory complexes of the electron transfer system. Silencing of mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) in islet cells limits the inner mitochondrial membrane potential and impairs mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, predominantly by affecting the Succinate (via Complex II)-linked electron transfer pathway. Lowering mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) impairs insulin secretion of rat and human pancreatic beta-cells. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that mt-tRF-Leu(TAA) interacts with electron transfer system complexes and is a pivotal regulator of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and its coupling to insulin secretion.
PXD050237	38704457	Excessive endometrial PlGF- Rac1 signalling underlies endometrial cell stiffness linked to pre-eclampsia. 	Effect of aberrant PlGF on endometrial stromal cell actin dynamics : implications in pre-eclampsia.	Endometrial cells, actin polymerization, angiogenesis, cell stiffness, pre-eclampsia.	Cell stiffness is regulated by dynamic interaction between ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) and p21 protein-activated kinase 1 (PAK1) proteins, besides other biochemical and molecular regulators. In this study, we investigated how the Placental Growth Factor (PlGF) changes endometrial mechanics by modifying the actin cytoskeleton at the maternal interface. We explored the global effects of PlGF in endometrial stromal cells (EnSCs) using the concerted approach of proteomics, atomic force microscopy (AFM), and electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). Proteomic analysis shows PlGF upregulated RhoGTPases activating proteins and extracellular matrix organization-associated proteins in EnSCs. Rac1 and PAK1 transcript levels, activity, and actin polymerization were significantly increased with PlGF treatment. AFM further revealed an increase in cell stiffness with PlGF treatment. The additive effect of PlGF on actin polymerization was suppressed with siRNA-mediated inhibition of Rac1, PAK1, and WAVE2. Interestingly, the increase in cell stiffness by PlGF treatment was pharmacologically reversed with pravastatin, resulting in improved trophoblast cell invasion. Taken together, aberrant PlGF levels in the endometrium can contribute to an altered pre-pregnancy maternal microenvironment and offer a unifying explanation for the pathological changes observed in conditions such as pre-eclampsia (PE).
PXD044689	38705386	Pericyte-Specific Secretome Profiling in Hypoxia Using TurboID in a Multicellular In Vitro Spheroid-Model. 	Pericyte-specific secretome profiling in hypoxia using TurboID in an in vitro spheroid-model	Secretome, TurboID, hypoxia, pericytes, spheroids	Cellular communication within the brain is imperative for maintaining homeostasis and mounting effective responses to pathological triggers like hypoxia. However, a comprehensive understanding of the precise composition and dynamic release of secreted molecules has remained elusive, confined primarily to investigations using isolated monocultures. To overcome these limitations, we utilized the potential of TurboID, a non-toxic biotin ligation enzyme, to capture and enrich secreted proteins specifically originating from human brain pericytes in spheroid co-cultures with human endothelial cells and astrocytes. This approach allowed us to characterize the pericyte secretome within a more physiologically relevant multi-cellular setting encompassing the constituents of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Through a combination of mass spectrometry and multiplex immunoassays, we identified a wide spectrum of different secreted proteins by pericytes. Our findings demonstrate that the pericytes secretome is profoundly shaped by their inter-cellular communication with other BBB-residing cells. Moreover, we identified substantial differences in the secretory profiles between hypoxic and normoxic pericytes. Mass spectrometry analysis showed that hypoxic pericytes in co-culture increase their release of signals related to protein secretion, mTOR signalling and the complement system, while hypoxic pericytes in monocultures showed an upregulation in proliferative pathways including G2M checkpoints, E2F- and Myc-targets. In addition, hypoxic pericytes show an upregulation of proangiogenic proteins such as VEGFA but display downregulation of canonical proinflammatory cytokines such as CXCL1, MCP-1, and CXCL6. Understanding the specific composition of secreted proteins in the multi-cellular brain microvasculature is crucial for advancing our knowledge of brain homeostasis and the mechanisms underlying pathology. This study has implications for the identification of targeted therapeutic strategies aimed at modulating microvascular signalling in brain pathologies associated with hypoxia.
PXD045057	38705944	Fibrillar extracellular matrix produced by pericyte-like cells facilitates glioma cell dissemination. 	Proteomic characterization of extracellular matrix (ECM) produced by human fibroblast activation protein (FAP)-positive pericyte-like cells and glioma cells	Collagen I, Extracellular matrix, Fibroblast activation protein, Fibronectin, Glioblastoma, SWATH-MS	Gliomagenesis induces profound changes in the composition of the extracellular matrix (ECM) of the brain. In this study, we identified a cellular population responsible for the increased deposition of collagen I and fibronectin in glioblastoma. Elevated levels of the fibrillar proteins collagen I and fibronectin were associated with the expression of fibroblast activation protein (FAP), which is predominantly found in pericyte-like cells in glioblastoma. FAP+ pericyte-like cells were present in regions rich in collagen I and fibronectin in biopsy material and produced substantially more collagen I and fibronectin in vitro compared to other cell types found in the GBM microenvironment. Using mass spectrometry, we demonstrated that 3D matrices produced by FAP+ pericyte-like cells are rich in collagen I and fibronectin and contain several basement membrane proteins. This expression pattern differed markedly from glioma cells. Finally, we have shown that ECM produced by FAP+ pericyte-like cells enhances the migration of glioma cells including glioma stem-like cells, promotes their adhesion, and activates focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling. Taken together, our findings establish FAP+ pericyte-like cells as crucial producers of a complex ECM rich in collagen I and fibronectin, facilitating the dissemination of glioma cells through FAK activation.
PXD047751	38706985	Phenotypic and proteomic differences in biofilm formation of two Lactiplantibacillus plantarum strains in static and dynamic flow environments. 	Differences between static supernatant-, static biofilm- and flow biofilm-cells of two Lactiplantibacillus plantarum strains.	Lactiplantibacillus plantarum, cell wall, exponential vs stationary, flow-static biofilm, stress resistance	Lactiplantibacillus plantarum is a Gram-positive non-motile bacterium capable of producing biofilms that contribute to the colonization of surfaces in a range of different environments. In this study, we compared two strains, WCFS1 and CIP104448, in their ability to produce biofilms in static and dynamic (flow) environments using an in-house designed flow setup. This flow setup enables us to impose a non-uniform flow velocity profile across the well. Biofilm formation occurred at the bottom of the well for both strains, under static and flow conditions, where in the latter condition, CIP104448 also showed increased biofilm formation at the walls of the well in line with the higher hydrophobicity of the cells and the increased initial attachment efficacy compared to WCFS1. Fluorescence and scanning electron microscopy showed open 3D structured biofilms formed under flow conditions, containing live cells and ~30 % damaged/dead cells for CIP104448, whereas the WCFS1 biofilm showed live cells closely packed together. Comparative proteome analysis revealed minimal changes between planktonic and static biofilm cells of the respective strains suggesting that biofilm formation within 24 h is merely a passive process. Notably, observed proteome changes in WCFS1 and CIP104448 flow biofilm cells indicated similar and unique responses including changes in metabolic activity, redox/electron transfer and cell division proteins for both strains, and myo-inositol production for WCFS1 and oxidative stress response and DNA damage repair for CIP104448 uniquely. Exposure to DNase and protease treatments as well as lethal concentrations of peracetic acid showed highest resistance of flow biofilms. For the latter, CIP104448 flow biofilm even maintained its high disinfectant resistance after dispersal from the bottom and from the walls of the well. Combining all results highlights that L. plantarum biofilm structure and matrix, and physiological state and stress resistance of cells is strain dependent and strongly affected under flow conditions. It is concluded that consideration of effects of flow on biofilm formation is essential to better understand biofilm formation in different settings, including food processing environments.
PXD038196	38707804	Kidney Tissue Proteome Profiles in Short Versus Long Duration of Delayed Graft Function - A Pilot Study in Donation After Circulatory Death Donors. 	Kidney tissue proteome profiles discriminate between short and long duration of delayed graft function in donation after circulatory death donors	graft, kidney	Introduction: Delayed graft function (DGF) is often defined as the need for dialysis treatment in the first week after a kidney transplantation. This definition, though readily applicable, is generic and unable to distinguish between "types" of DGF or time needed to recover function that may also significantly affect longer-term outcomes. We aimed to profile biological pathways in donation after circulatory death (DCD) kidney donors that correlate with DGF and different DGF durations. Methods: A total of N = 30 DCD kidney biopsies were selected from the UK Quality in Organ Donation (QUOD) biobank and stratified according to DGF duration (immediate function, IF n = 10; "short-DGF" (1-6 days), SDGF n = 10; "long-DGF" (7-22 days), LDGF n = 10). Samples were matched for donor and recipient demographics and analyzed by label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomics, yielding identification of N = 3378 proteins. Results: Ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) on differentially abundant proteins showed that SDGF kidneys presented upregulation of stress response pathways, whereas LDGF presented impaired response to stress, compared to IF. LDGF showed extensive metabolic deficits compared to IF and SDGF. Conclusion: DCD kidneys requiring dialysis only in the first week posttransplant present acute cellular injury at donation, alongside repair pathways upregulation. In contrast, DCD kidneys requiring prolonged dialysis beyond 7 days present minimal metabolic and antioxidant responses, suggesting that current DGF definitions might not be adequate in distinguishing different patterns of injury in donor kidneys contributing to DGF.
PXD050055	38709105	Multiple E3 ligases act as antiviral factors against SARS-CoV-2 via inducing the ubiquitination and degradation of ORF9b. 	Proteins interacting with SARS-CoV-2 ORF9b	Host factors, ORF9b, SARS-CoV-2	Severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) open reading frame 9b (ORF9b) antagonizes the antiviral type I and III interferon (IFN) responses and is ubiquitinated and degraded via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. However, E3 ubiquitin ligases that mediate the polyubiquitination and degradation of ORF9b remain unknown. In this study, we identified 14 E3 ligases that specifically bind to SARS-CoV-2 ORF9b. Specifically, three E3 ligases, HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HUWE1), ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component n-recognin 4 (UBR4), and UBR5, induced K48-linked polyubiquitination and degradation of ORF9b, thereby attenuating ORF9b-mediated inhibition of the IFN response and SARS-CoV-2 replication. Moreover, each E3 ligase performed this function independent of the other two E3 ligases. Therefore, the three E3 ligases identified in this study as anti-SARS-CoV-2 host factors provide novel molecular insight into the virus-host interaction.IMPORTANCEUbiquitination is an important post-translational modification that regulates multiple biological processes, including viral replication. Identification of E3 ubiquitin ligases that target viral proteins for degradation can provide novel targets for antagonizing viral infections. Here, we identified multiple E3 ligases, including HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HUWE1), ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component n-recognin 4 (UBR4), and UBR5, that ubiquitinated and induced the degradation of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) open reading frame 9b (ORF9b), an interferon (IFN) antagonist, thereby enhancing IFN production and attenuating SARS-CoV-2 replication. Our study provides new possibilities for drug development targeting the interaction between E3 ligases and ORF9b.
PXD051237	38710927	SUMOylated Golgin45 associates with PML-NB to transcriptionally regulate lipid metabolism genes during heat shock stress. 	Human SUMOylated Golgin45 CoIP-MS	CoIP-MS, Golgin45, SUMOylation	Golgin tethers are known to mediate vesicular transport in the secretory pathway, whereas it is relatively unknown whether they may mediate cellular stress response within the cell. Here, we describe a cellular stress response during heat shock stress via SUMOylation of a Golgin tether, Golgin45. We found that Golgin45 is a SUMOylated Golgin via SUMO1 under steady state condition. Upon heat shock stress, the Golgin enters the nucleus by interacting with Importin-beta2 and gets further modified by SUMO3. Importantly, SUMOylated Golgin45 appears to interact with PML and SUMO-deficient Golgin45 mutant functions as a dominant negative for PML-NB formation during heat shock stress, suppressing transcription of lipid metabolism genes. These results indicate that Golgin45 may play a role in heat stress response by transcriptional regulation of lipid metabolism genes in SUMOylation-dependent fashion.
PXD042048	38711141	Molecular weight control of poly-gamma-glutamic acid reveals novel insights into extracellular polymeric substance synthesis in Bacillus licheniformis. 	Metabonomics analyses of  pgds engineering strain in Bacillus licheniformis CGMCC 2876	Bacillus licheniformis, Metabonomics, pgdS	BACKGROUND: The structural diversity of extracellular polymeric substances produced by microorganisms is attracting particular attention. Poly-gamma-glutamic acid (gamma-PGA) is a widely studied extracellular polymeric substance from Bacillus species. The function of gamma-PGA varies with its molecular weight (Mw). RESULTS: Herein, different endogenous promoters in Bacillus licheniformis were selected to regulate the expression levels of pgdS, resulting in the formation of gamma-PGA with Mw values ranging from 1.61 x 10(3) to 2.03 x 10(4) kDa. The yields of gamma-PGA and exopolysaccharides (EPS) both increased in the pgdS engineered strain with the lowest Mw and viscosity, in which the EPS content was almost tenfold higher than that of the wild-type strain. Subsequently, the compositions of EPS from the pgdS engineered strain also changed. Metabolomics and RT-qPCR further revealed that improving the transportation efficiency of EPS and the regulation of carbon flow of monosaccharide synthesis could affect the EPS yield. CONCLUSIONS: Here, we present a novel insight that increased pgdS expression led to the degradation of gamma-PGA Mw and changes in EPS composition, thereby stimulating EPS and gamma-PGA production. The results indicated a close relationship between gamma-PGA and EPS in B. licheniformis and provided an effective strategy for the controlled synthesis of extracellular polymeric substances.
PXD047093	38713163	Development of Inhibitors, Probes, and PROTAC Provides a Complete Toolbox to Study PARK7 in the Living Cell. 	Development of inhibitors, probes, and PROTAC provides a complete toolbox to study PARK7 in the living cell	PARK7, PROTACs, activity-based probes, small molecule inhibitors	The integration of diverse chemical tools like small-molecule inhibitors, activity-based probes (ABPs), and proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) advances clinical drug discovery and facilitates the exploration of various biological facets of targeted proteins. Here, we report the development of such a chemical toolbox for the human Parkinson disease protein 7 (PARK7/DJ-1) implicated in Parkinson's disease and cancers. By combining structure-guided design, miniaturized library synthesis, and high-throughput screening, we identified two potent compounds, JYQ-164 and JYQ-173, inhibiting PARK7 in vitro and in cells by covalently and selectively targeting its critical residue, Cys106. Leveraging JYQ-173, we further developed a cell-permeable Bodipy probe, JYQ-196, for covalent labeling of PARK7 in living cells and a first-in-class PARK7 degrader JYQ-194 that selectively induces its proteasomal degradation in human cells. Our study provides a valuable toolbox to enhance the understanding of PARK7 biology in cellular contexts and opens new opportunities for therapeutic interventions.
PXD040912	38713285	The cAMP-dependent phosphorylation footprint in response to heat stress. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveal novel roles of cAMP in plants	RNA splicing, cAMP, cyclic adenosine monophosphate, cyclic nucleotide, kinases	KEY MESSAGE: cAMP modulates the phosphorylation status of highly conserved phosphosites in RNA-binding proteins crucial for mRNA metabolism and reprogramming in response to heat stress. In plants, 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (3',5'-cAMP) is a second messenger that modulates multiple cellular targets, thereby participating in plant developmental and adaptive processes. Although its role in ameliorating heat-related damage has been demonstrated, mechanisms that govern cAMP-dependent responses to heat have remained elusive. Here we analyze the role cAMP-dependent phosphorylation during prolonged heat stress (HS) with a view to gain insight into processes that govern plant responses to HS. To do so, we performed quantitative phosphoproteomic analyses in Nicotiana tabacum Bright Yellow-2 cells grown at 27 degreesC or 35 degreesC for 3 days overexpressing a molecular "sponge" that reduces free intracellular cAMP levels. Our phosphorylation data and analyses reveal that the presence of cAMP is an essential factor that governs specific protein phosphorylation events that occur during prolonged HS in BY-2 cells. Notably, cAMP modulates HS-dependent phosphorylation of proteins that functions in mRNA processing, transcriptional control, vesicular trafficking, and cell cycle regulation and this is indicative for a systemic role of the messenger. In particular, changes of cAMP levels affect the phosphorylation status of highly conserved phosphosites in 19 RNA-binding proteins that are crucial during the reprogramming of the mRNA metabolism in response to HS. Furthermore, phosphorylation site motifs and molecular docking suggest that some proteins, including kinases and phosphatases, are conceivably able to directly interact with cAMP thus further supporting a regulatory role of cAMP in plant HS responses.
PXD043213	38713535	A mitochondrial surveillance mechanism activated by SRSF2 mutations in hematologic malignancies. 	Targeting mitophagy in SRSF2 mutant hematologic malignancies	GSK-3, PINK1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, SRSF2, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), mitophagy, myelodysplasia, nonsense mediated decay, splicing	Splicing factor mutations are common in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), but how they alter cellular functions is unclear. We show that the pathogenic SRSF2P95H/+ mutation disrupts the splicing of mitochondrial mRNAs, impairs mitochondrial complex I function, and robustly increases mitophagy. We also identified a mitochondrial surveillance mechanism by which mitochondrial dysfunction modifies splicing of the mitophagy activator PINK1 to remove a poison intron, increasing the stability and abundance of PINK1 mRNA and protein. SRSF2P95H-induced mitochondrial dysfunction increased PINK1 expression through this mechanism, which is essential for survival of SRSF2P95H/+ cells. Inhibition of splicing with a glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibitor promoted retention of the poison intron, impairing mitophagy and activating apoptosis in SRSF2P95H/+ cells. These data reveal a homeostatic mechanism for sensing mitochondrial stress through PINK1 splicing and identify increased mitophagy as a disease marker and a therapeutic vulnerability in SRSF2P95H mutant MDS and AML.
PXD051147	38713765	The actin-binding protein CAP1 represses MRTF-SRF-dependent gene expression in mouse cerebral cortex. 	CAP1-KO E18.5 mouCAP1-KO E18.5 mouse cerebral cortices LC-MSMS	Cyclase-associated protein 1, MRTF, SRF, actin, brain, cortex, embryo, knock-out	Serum response factor (SRF) is an essential transcription factor for brain development and function. Here, we explored how an SRF cofactor, the actin monomer-sensing myocardin-related transcription factor MRTF, is regulated in mouse cortical neurons. We found that MRTF-dependent SRF activity in vitro and in vivo was repressed by cyclase-associated protein CAP1. Inactivation of the actin-binding protein CAP1 reduced the amount of actin monomers in the cytoplasm, which promoted nuclear MRTF translocation and MRTF-SRF activation. This function was independent of cofilin1 and actin-depolymerizing factor, and CAP1 loss of function in cortical neurons was not compensated by endogenous CAP2. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of cerebral cortex lysates from wild-type and Cap1 knockout mice supported the role of CAP1 in repressing MRTF-SRF-dependent signaling in vivo. Bioinformatic analysis identified likely MRTF-SRF target genes, which aligned with the transcriptomic and proteomic results. Together with our previous studies that implicated CAP1 in axonal growth cone function as well as the morphology and plasticity of excitatory synapses, our findings establish CAP1 as a crucial actin regulator in the brain relevant for formation of neuronal networks.
PXD048160	38714739	Transcriptome- and proteome-wide effects of a circular RNA encompassing four early exons of the spinal muscular atrophy genes. 	Human SMN C2A-2B-3-4 OE (LC-MS/MS)	C2A-2B-3-4, HEK293 derived inducible cells (T-REx), SMN, circular RNA, overexpression	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) genes, SMN1 and SMN2 (hereinafter referred to as SMN1/2), produce multiple circular RNAs (circRNAs), including C2A-2B-3-4 that encompasses early exons 2A, 2B, 3 and 4. C2A-2B-3-4 is a universally and abundantly expressed circRNA of SMN1/2. Here we report the transcriptome- and proteome-wide effects of overexpression of C2A-2B-3-4 in inducible HEK293 cells. Our RNA-Seq analysis revealed altered expression of ~ 15% genes (4172 genes) by C2A-2B-3-4. About half of the affected genes by C2A-2B-3-4 remained unaffected by L2A-2B-3-4, a linear transcript encompassing exons 2A, 2B, 3 and 4 of SMN1/2. These findings underscore the unique role of the structural context of C2A-2B-3-4 in gene regulation. A surprisingly high number of upregulated genes by C2A-2B-3-4 were located on chromosomes 4 and 7, whereas many of the downregulated genes were located on chromosomes 10 and X. Supporting a cross-regulation of SMN1/2 transcripts, C2A-2B-3-4 and L2A-2B-3-4 upregulated and downregulated SMN1/2 mRNAs, respectively. Proteome analysis revealed 61 upregulated and 57 downregulated proteins by C2A-2B-3-4 with very limited overlap with those affected by L2A-2B-3-4. Independent validations confirmed the effect of C2A-2B-3-4 on expression of genes associated with chromatin remodeling, transcription, spliceosome function, ribosome biogenesis, lipid metabolism, cytoskeletal formation, cell proliferation and neuromuscular junction formation. Our findings reveal a broad role of C2A-2B-3-4, and expands our understanding of functions of SMN1/2 genes.
PXD050085	38714822	An interphase actin wave promotes mitochondrial content mixing and organelle homeostasis. 	An interphase actin wave promotes mitochondrial content mixing and 2 organelle homeostasis	FMNL1, actin, homeostasis, mitochondrial fission	Across the cell cycle, mitochondrial dynamics are regulated by a cycling wave of actin polymerization/depolymerization. In metaphase, this wave induces actin comet tails on mitochondria that propel these organelles to drive spatial mixing, resulting in their equitable inheritance by daughter cells. In contrast, during interphase the cycling actin wave promotes localized mitochondrial fission. Here, we identify the F-actin nucleator/elongator FMNL1 as a positive regulator of the wave. FMNL1-depleted cells exhibit decreased mitochondrial polarization, decreased mitochondrial oxygen consumption, and increased production of reactive oxygen species. Accompanying these changes is a loss of hetero-fusion of wave-fragmented mitochondria. Thus, we propose that the interphase actin wave maintains mitochondrial homeostasis by promoting mitochondrial content mixing. Finally, we investigate the mechanistic basis for the observation that the wave drives mitochondrial motility in metaphase but mitochondrial fission in interphase. Our data indicate that when the force of actin polymerization is resisted by mitochondrial tethering to microtubules, as in interphase, fission results.
PXD046531	38714916	The association of protein-bound methionine sulfoxide with proteomic basis for aging in beech seeds. 	Does protein-bound methionine sulfoxide provides a proteomic basis for ageing in beech seeds?	Fagus sylvatica, longevity, methionine sulfoxide reductase, oxidative stress, seed storage	BACKGROUND: European beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) trees produce seeds irregularly; therefore, it is necessary to store beech seeds for forestation. Despite the acquisition of desiccation tolerance during development, beech seeds are classified as intermediate because they lose viability during long-term storage faster than typical orthodox seeds. In this study, beech seeds stored for short (3 years) or long (20 years) periods under optimal conditions and displaying 92 and 30% germination capacity, respectively, were compared. RESULTS: Aged seeds displayed increased membrane damage, manifested as electrolyte leakage and lipid peroxidation levels. Analyses have been based on embryonic axes, which contained higher levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and higher levels of protein-bound methionine sulfoxide (MetO) in aged seeds. Using label-free quantitative proteomics, 3,949 proteins were identified, of which 2,442 were reliably quantified pointing to 24 more abundant proteins and 35 less abundant proteins in beech seeds under long-term storage conditions. Functional analyses based on gene ontology annotations revealed that nucleic acid binding activity (molecular function), ribosome organization or biogenesis and transmembrane transport (cellular processes), translational proteins (protein class) and membranous anatomical entities (cellular compartment) were affected in aged seeds. To verify whether MetO, the oxidative posttranslational modification of proteins that can be reversed via the action of methionine sulfoxide reductase (Msr) enzymes, is involved in the aging of beech seeds, we identified and quantified 226 MetO-containing proteins, among which 9 and 19 exhibited significantly up- and downregulated MetO levels, respectively, in beech seeds under long-term storage conditions. Several Msr isoforms were identified and recognized as MsrA1-like, MsrA4, MsrB5 and MsrB5-like in beech seeds. Only MsrA1-like displayed decreased abundance in aged seeds. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that the loss of membrane integrity reflected in the elevated abundance of membrane proteins had a higher impact on seed aging progress than the MetO/Msr system. Proteome analyses enabled us to propose protein Sec61 and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase as potential longevity modulators in beech seeds.
PXD050212	38715938	The brain-specific kinase LMTK3 regulates neuronal excitability by decreasing KCC2-dependent neuronal Cl(-) extrusion. 	Studying the role of LMTK3 in the brain	brain, gaba, lmtk3, phosphorylation, synapse	LMTK3 is a brain-specific transmembrane serine/threonine protein kinase that acts as a scaffold for protein phosphatase-1 (PP1). Although LMKT3 has been identified as a risk factor for autism and epilepsy, its physiological significance is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that LMTK3 copurifies and binds to KCC2, a neuron-specific K(+)/Cl(-) transporter. KCC2 activity is essential for Cl(-)-mediated hyperpolarizing GABAAR receptor currents, the unitary events that underpin fast synaptic inhibition. LMTK3 acts to promote the association of KCC2 with PP1 to promote the dephosphorylation of S940 within its C-terminal cytoplasmic domain, a process the diminishes KCC2 activity. Accordingly, acute inhibition of LMTK3 increases KCC2 activity dependent upon S940 and increases neuronal Cl(-) extrusion. Consistent with this, LMTK3 inhibition reduced intrinsic neuronal excitability and the severity of seizure-like events in vitro. Thus, LMTK3 may have profound effects on neuronal excitability as an endogenous modulator of KCC2 activity.
PXD042129	38716781	Thermal proteome profiling reveals insight to antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of Lagunamide A in the modulation of DNA damage repair. 	Target Identification of Lagunamide A	Lagunamide A, Natural product, TMT-10plex, Target ID, Thermal Proteome Profiling	Lagunamide A is a biologically active natural product with a yet unidentified molecular mode of action. Cellular studies revealed that lagunamide A is a potent inhibitor of cancer cell proliferation, promotes apoptosis and causes mitochondrial dysfunction. To decipher the cellular mechanism responsible for these effects, we utilized thermal protein profiling (TPP) and identified EYA3 as a stabilized protein in cells upon lagunamide A treatment. EYA3, involved in the DNA damage repair process, was functionally investigated via siRNA based knockdown studies and corresponding effects of lagunamide A on DNA repair were confirmed. Furthermore, we showed that lagunamide A sensitized tumor cells to treatment with the drug doxorubicin highlighting a putative therapeutic strategy.
PXD045092	38718259	Global Proteomic Analysis Reveals Alterations in Differentially Expressed Proteins between Cardiopathic Lamin A/C Mutations. 	Proteomics Analysis Reveals differences in Differencial Expressed Proteins Between Cardiopathic LMNA utations	LCMS, cardiomyopathy, heart, lamin	Lamin A/C (LMNA) is an important component of nuclear lamina. Mutations cause arrhythmia, heart failure, and sudden cardiac death. While LMNA-associated cardiomyopathy typically has an aggressive course that responds poorly to conventional heart failure therapies, there is variability in severity and age of penetrance between and even within specific mutations, which is poorly understood at the cellular level. Further, this heterogeneity has not previously been captured to mimic the heterozygous state, nor have the hundreds of clinical LMNA mutations been represented. Herein, we have overexpressed cardiopathic LMNA variants in HEK cells and utilized state-of-the-art quantitative proteomics to compare the global proteomic profiles of (1) aggregating Q353 K alone, (2) Q353 K coexpressed with WT, (3) aggregating N195 K coexpressed with WT, and (4) nonaggregating E317 K coexpressed with WT to help capture some of the heterogeneity between mutations. We analyzed each data set to obtain the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and applied gene ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway analyses. We found a range of 162 to 324 DEPs from over 6000 total protein IDs with differences in GO terms, KEGG pathways, and DEPs important in cardiac function, further highlighting the complexity of cardiac laminopathies. Pathways disrupted by LMNA mutations were validated with redox, autophagy, and apoptosis functional assays in both HEK 293 cells and in induced pluripotent stem cell derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) for LMNA N195 K. These proteomic profiles expand our repertoire for mutation-specific downstream cellular effects that may become useful as druggable targets for personalized medicine approach for cardiac laminopathies.
PXD051116	38718903	Mining novel gene targets for improving tolerance to furfural and acetic acid in Yarrowia lipolytica using whole-genome clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats interference library. 	Mining novel gene targets for improving tolerance to furfural and acetic acid in Yarrowia lipolytica using whole-genome clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats interference library	CRISPRi library, acetic tolerance, furfural tolerance, yarrowia lipolytica	Abundant renewable resource lignocellulosic biomass possesses tremendous potential for green biomanufacturing, while its efficient utilization by Yarrowia lipolytica, an attractive biochemical production host, is restricted since the presence of inhibitors furfural and acetic acid in lignocellulosic hydrolysate. Given deficient understanding of inherent interactions between inhibitors and cellular metabolism, sufficiently mining relevant genes is necessary. Herein, 14 novel gene targets were discovered using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats interference library in Y. lipolytica, achieving tolerance to 0.35 % (v/v) acetic acid (the highest concentration reported in Y. lipolytica), 4.8 mM furfural, or a combination of 2.4 mM furfural and 0.15 % (v/v) acetic acid. The tolerance mechanism might involve improvement of cell division and decrease of reactive oxygen species level. Transcriptional repression of effective gene targets still enabled tolerance when xylose was a carbon source. This work forms a robust foundation for improving microbial tolerance to lignocellulose-derived inhibitors and revealing underlying mechanism.
PXD050585	38719025	Exploration of influenza A virus PA protein-associated cellular proteins discloses its impact on mitochondrial function. 	Identification of components in protein complex of influenza A virus PA protein	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, influenza A virus, interactome, polymerase acidic protein (PA), spectral counting-based quantification	Influenza A virus can infect respiratory tracts and may cause severe illness in humans. Proteins encoded by influenza A virus can interact with cellular factors and dysregulate host biological processes to support viral replication and cause pathogenicity. The influenza viral PA protein is not only a subunit of influenza viral polymerase but also a virulence factor involved in pathogenicity during infection. To explore the role of the influenza virus PA protein in regulating host biological processes, we performed immunoprecipitation and LC-MS/MS to globally identify cellular factors that interact with the PA proteins of the influenza A H1N1, 2009 pandemic H1N1, and H3N2 viruses. The results demonstrated that proteins located in the mitochondrion, proteasome, and nucleus are associated with the PA protein. We further discovered that the PA protein is partly located in mitochondria by immunofluorescence and mitochondrial fractionation and that overexpression of the PA protein reduces mitochondrial respiration. In addition, our results revealed the interaction between PA and the mitochondrial matrix protein PYCR2 and the antiviral role of PYCR2 during influenza A virus replication. Moreover, we found that the PA protein could also trigger autophagy and disrupt mitochondrial homeostasis. Overall, our research revealed the impacts of the influenza A virus PA protein on mitochondrial function and autophagy.
PXD045526	38719469	Estrogen receptor 1 chromatin profiling in human breast tumors reveals high inter-patient heterogeneity with enrichment of risk SNPs and enhancer activity at most-conserved regions. 	Breast cancer risk SNPs converge on estrogen receptor binding sites commonly shared between breast tumors to locally alter estrogen signalling output	Breast Cancer, Estrogen receptor, SNPs, enhancers, rs9952980	Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1; also known as ERalpha, encoded by ESR1 gene) is the main driver and prime drug target in luminal breast cancer. ESR1 chromatin binding is extensively studied in cell lines and a limited number of human tumors, using consensi of peaks shared among samples. However, little is known about inter-tumor heterogeneity of ESR1 chromatin action, along with its biological implications. Here, we use a large set of ESR1 ChIP-seq data from 70 ESR1(+) breast cancers to explore inter-patient heterogeneity in ESR1 DNA binding to reveal a striking inter-tumor heterogeneity of ESR1 action. Of note, commonly shared ESR1 sites show the highest estrogen-driven enhancer activity and are most engaged in long-range chromatin interactions. In addition, the most commonly shared ESR1-occupied enhancers are enriched for breast cancer risk SNP loci. We experimentally confirm SNVs to impact chromatin binding potential for ESR1 and its pioneer factor FOXA1. Finally, in the TCGA breast cancer cohort, we can confirm these variations to associate with differences in expression for the target gene. Cumulatively, we reveal a natural hierarchy of ESR1-chromatin interactions in breast cancers within a highly heterogeneous inter-tumor ESR1 landscape, with the most common shared regions being most active and affected by germline functional risk SNPs for breast cancer development.
PXD039260	38719824	Plasma proteome profiling reveals dynamic of cholesterol marker after dual blocker therapy. 	Bispecific antigen therapy plasma proteome	biomarker, bispecific antigen therapy, immunotherapy, plasma proteome	Dual blocker therapy (DBT) has the enhanced antitumor benefits than the monotherapy. Yet, few effective biomarkers are developed to monitor the therapy response. Herein, we investigate the DBT longitudinal plasma proteome profiling including 113 longitudinal samples from 22 patients who received anti-PD1 and anti-CTLA4 DBT therapy. The results show the immune response and cholesterol metabolism are upregulated after the first DBT cycle. Notably, the cholesterol metabolism is activated in the disease non-progressive group (DNP) during the therapy. Correspondingly, the clinical indicator prealbumin (PA), free triiodothyronine (FT3) and triiodothyronine (T3) show significantly positive association with the cholesterol metabolism. Furthermore, by integrating proteome and radiology approach, we observe the high-density lipoprotein partial remodeling are activated in DNP group and identify a candidate biomarker APOC3 that can reflect DBT response. Above, we establish a machine learning model to predict the DBT response and the model performance is validated by an independent cohort with balanced accuracy is 0.96. Thus, the plasma proteome profiling strategy evaluates the alteration of cholesterol metabolism and identifies a panel of biomarkers in DBT.
PXD048194	38719837	Cadmium binding by the F-box domain induces p97-mediated SCF complex disassembly to activate stress response programs. 	Native Purification of yeast Met30 in the absence and presence of Cadmium followed by DSSO crosslinking and Mass spec analysis	Cadmium, DSSO, Met30 intra-crosslinks, SCFMet30	The F-box domain is a highly conserved structural motif that defines the largest class of ubiquitin ligases, Skp1/Cullin1/F-box protein (SCF) complexes. The only known function of the F-box motif is to form the protein interaction surface with Skp1. Here we show that the F-box domain can function as an environmental sensor. We demonstrate that the F-box domain of Met30 is a cadmium sensor that blocks the activity of the SCF(Met30) ubiquitin ligase during cadmium stress. Several highly conserved cysteine residues within the Met30 F-box contribute to binding of cadmium with a KD of 8 microM. Binding induces a conformational change that allows for Met30 autoubiquitylation, which in turn leads to recruitment of the segregase Cdc48/p97/VCP followed by active SCF(Met30) disassembly. The resulting inactivation of SCF(Met30) protects cells from cadmium stress. Our results show that F-box domains participate in regulation of SCF ligases beyond formation of the Skp1 binding interface.
PXD048447	38719850	The Shigella kinase effector OspG modulates host ubiquitin signaling to escape septin-cage entrapment. 	The Shigella kinase effector OspG hijacks host ubiquitin signaling to escape septin-cage entrapment	Phosphoproteomic, ubiquitome	Shigella flexneri is a Gram-negative bacterium causing severe bloody dysentery. Its pathogenesis is largely dictated by a plasmid-encoded type III secretion system (T3SS) and its associated effectors. Among these, the effector OspG has been shown to bind to the ubiquitin conjugation machinery (E2~Ub) to activate its kinase activity. However, the cellular targets of OspG remain elusive despite years of extensive efforts. Here we show by unbiased phosphoproteomics that a major target of OspG is CAND1, a regulatory protein controlling the assembly of cullin-RING ubiquitin ligases (CRLs). CAND1 phosphorylation weakens its interaction with cullins, which is expected to impact a large panel of CRL E3s. Indeed, global ubiquitome profiling reveals marked changes in the ubiquitination landscape when OspG is introduced. Notably, OspG promotes ubiquitination of a class of cytoskeletal proteins called septins, thereby inhibiting formation of cage-like structures encircling cytosolic bacteria. Overall, we demonstrate that pathogens have evolved an elaborate strategy to modulate host ubiquitin signaling to evade septin-cage entrapment.
PXD050744	38719909	PD-1/CD80(+) small extracellular vesicles from immunocytes induce cold tumours featured with enhanced adaptive immunosuppression. 	PD-1/CD80+ small extracellular vesicles from immunocytes induce cold tumours featuring with enhanced adaptive immunosuppression	Cold tumour, Immunosuppression, PD-1/CD80, Small extracellular vesicle	Only a minority of cancer patients benefit from immune checkpoint blockade therapy. Sophisticated cross-talk among different immune checkpoint pathways as well as interaction pattern of immune checkpoint molecules carried on circulating small extracellular vesicles (sEV) might contribute to the low response rate. Here we demonstrate that PD-1 and CD80 carried on immunocyte-derived sEVs (I-sEV) induce an adaptive redistribution of PD-L1 in tumour cells. The resulting decreased cell membrane PD-L1 expression and increased sEV PD-L1 secretion into the circulation contribute to systemic immunosuppression. PD-1/CD80(+) I-sEVs also induce downregulation of adhesion- and antigen presentation-related molecules on tumour cells and impaired immune cell infiltration, thereby converting tumours to an immunologically cold phenotype. Moreover, synchronous analysis of multiple checkpoint molecules, including PD-1, CD80 and PD-L1, on circulating sEVs distinguishes clinical responders from those patients who poorly respond to anti-PD-1 treatment. Altogether, our study shows that sEVs carry multiple inhibitory immune checkpoints proteins, which form a potentially targetable adaptive loop to suppress antitumour immunity.
PXD041504	38720063	Neutrophil-derived PAD4 induces citrullination of CKMT1 exacerbates mucosal inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease. 	Neutrophil-derived PAD4 induces citrullination of CKMT1 in epithelial cells to exacerbate mucosal inflammation	citrullination, inflammatory bowel disease, intestinal epithelial cells, mitochondrial creatine kinase 1, neutrophil extracellular traps, peptidyl-arginine deiminase-4	Peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) plays a pivotal role in infection and inflammatory diseases by facilitating the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). However, the substrates of PAD4 and its exact role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remain unclear. In this study, we employed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and substrate citrullination mapping to decipher the role of PAD4 in intestinal inflammation associated with IBD. Our results demonstrated that PAD4 deficiency alleviated colonic inflammation and restored intestinal barrier function in a dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis mouse model. scRNA-seq analysis revealed significant alterations in intestinal cell populations, with reduced neutrophil numbers and changes in epithelial subsets upon PAD4 deletion. Gene expression analysis highlighted pathways related to inflammation and epithelial cell function. Furthermore, we found that neutrophil-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) carrying PAD4 were secreted into intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). Within IECs, PAD4 citrullinates mitochondrial creatine kinase 1 (CKMT1) at the R242 site, leading to reduced CKMT1 protein stability via the autophagy pathway. This action compromises mitochondrial homeostasis, impairs intestinal barrier integrity, and induces IECs apoptosis. IEC-specific depletion of CKMT1 exacerbated intestinal inflammation and apoptosis in mice with colitis. Clinical analysis of IBD patients revealed elevated levels of PAD4, increased CKMT1 citrullination, and decreased CKMT1 expression. In summary, our findings highlight the crucial role of PAD4 in IBD, where it modulates IECs plasticity via CKMT1 citrullination, suggesting that PAD4 may be a potential therapeutic target for IBD.
PXD045702	38720074	Targetable leukaemia dependency on noncanonical PI3Kgamma signalling. 	Targetable leukemia dependency on noncanonical PI3Kgamma signaling	PI3Kgamma, PIK3R5, TMT, cancer, leukemia, phosphoproteomics	Phosphoinositide-3-kinase-gamma (PI3Kgamma) is implicated as a target to repolarize tumour-associated macrophages and promote antitumour immune responses in solid cancers(1-4). However, cancer cell-intrinsic roles of PI3Kgamma are unclear. Here, by integrating unbiased genome-wide CRISPR interference screening with functional analyses across acute leukaemias, we define a selective dependency on the PI3Kgamma complex in a high-risk subset that includes myeloid, lymphoid and dendritic lineages. This dependency is characterized by innate inflammatory signalling and activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase regulatory subunit 5 (PIK3R5), which encodes a regulatory subunit of PI3Kgamma(5) and stabilizes the active enzymatic complex. We identify p21 (RAC1)-activated kinase 1 (PAK1) as a noncanonical substrate of PI3Kgamma that mediates this cell-intrinsic dependency and find that dephosphorylation of PAK1 by PI3Kgamma inhibition impairs mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Treatment with the selective PI3Kgamma inhibitor eganelisib is effective in leukaemias with activated PIK3R5. In addition, the combination of eganelisib and cytarabine prolongs survival over either agent alone, even in patient-derived leukaemia xenografts with low baseline PIK3R5 expression, as residual leukaemia cells after cytarabine treatment have elevated G protein-coupled purinergic receptor activity and PAK1 phosphorylation. Together, our study reveals a targetable dependency on PI3Kgamma-PAK1 signalling that is amenable to near-term evaluation in patients with acute leukaemia.
PXD043268	38720476	Chronotoxici-Plate Containing Droplet-Engineered Rhythmic Liver Organoids for Drug Toxicity Evaluation. 	Chronotoxici-plate Containing Rhythmic Liver Organoids for Drug Screening	Chronotherapy, Cry1, Oxaliplatin, engineering liver organoid	The circadian clock coordinates the daily rhythmicity of biological processes, and its dysregulation is associated with various human diseases. Despite the direct targeting of rhythmic genes by many prevalent and World Health Organization (WHO) essential drugs, traditional approaches can't satisfy the need of explore multi-timepoint drug administration strategies across a wide range of drugs. Here, droplet-engineered primary liver organoids (DPLOs) are generated with rhythmic characteristics in 4 days, and developed Chronotoxici-plate as an in vitro high-throughput automated rhythmic tool for chronotherapy assessment within 7 days. Cryptochrome 1 (Cry1) is identified as a rhythmic marker in DPLOs, providing insights for rapid assessment of organoid rhythmicity. Using oxaliplatin as a representative drug, time-dependent variations are demonstrated in toxicity on the Chronotoxici-plate, highlighting the importance of considering time-dependent effects. Additionally, the role of chronobiology is underscored in primary organoid modeling. This study may provide tools for both precision chronotherapy and chronotoxicity in drug development by optimizing administration timing.
PXD045401	38722695	Hepatocyte-intrinsic SMN deficiency drives metabolic dysfunction and liver steatosis in spinal muscular atrophy. 	Liver Steatosis and Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Spinal Muscular Atrophy is Survival Motor Neuron-Dependent and Hepatocyte-Intrinsic	induced hepatocellular carcinoma, spinal muscular atrophy	Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is typically characterized as a motor neuron disease, but extra-neuronal phenotypes are present in almost every organ in severely affected patients and animal models. Extra-neuronal phenotypes were previously underappreciated as patients with severe SMA phenotypes usually died in infancy; however, with current treatments for motor neurons increasing patient lifespan, impaired function of peripheral organs may develop into significant future comorbidities and lead to new treatment-modified phenotypes. Fatty liver is seen in SMA animal models , but generalizability to patients and whether this is due to hepatocyte-intrinsic Survival Motor Neuron (SMN) protein deficiency and/or subsequent to skeletal muscle denervation is unknown. If liver pathology in SMA is SMN-dependent and hepatocyte-intrinsic, this suggests SMN repleting therapies must target extra-neuronal tissues and motor neurons for optimal patient outcome. Here we showed that fatty liver is present in SMA and that SMA patient-specific iHeps were susceptible to steatosis. Using proteomics, functional studies and CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing, we confirmed that fatty liver in SMA is a primary SMN-dependent hepatocyte-intrinsic liver defect associated with mitochondrial and other hepatic metabolism implications. These pathologies require monitoring and indicate need for systematic clinical surveillance and additional and/or combinatorial therapies to ensure continued SMA patient health.
PXD051759	38723043	Effect of Acupuncture on Tear Proteomics in Patients with Video Display Terminal-Related Dry Eye. 	Effect of acupuncture on tear proteomics in patients with video display terminal-related dry eye	Actin cytoskeleton, Acupuncture, Biomarkers, Glycolysis, Tear proteomics, VDT-related dry eye	Acupuncture is widely used to treat dry eye disease (DED), but its effect has not been reported in treating video display terminal (VDT)-related dry eye, and the mechanism of acupuncture on VDT-related dry eye is also unknown. In our study, the tear proteome was compared with identifying possible mechanisms and biomarkers for predicting acupuncture effectiveness in VDT-related dry eye. The results showed that the ocular surface disease index scores were significantly different between the acupuncture group (AC group) and artificial tears group (AT group) at the end of the study, whereas tear film breakup time (TFBUT) and Schirmer I test (SIT) were not significantly different between the groups. Proteome changes pre- and post-treatment in the AC group were associated with B cell-related immune processes, inflammation, glycolysis, and actin cytoskeleton. Furthermore, the proteins hexosaminidase A and mannose-binding lectin 1 could prospectively predict whether acupuncture treatment was effective. Therefore, we believe that acupuncture can provide greater improvement in the clinical symptoms of VDT-related dry eye than artificial tears. The mechanism of acupuncture in VDT-related dry eye treatment may be associated with glycolysis- and actin cytoskeleton remodeling-mediated inflammatory and immune processes. Additionally, hexosaminidase A and mannose-binding lectin 1 are biomarkers for predicting the efficacy of acupuncture for VDT-related dry eye.
PXD047979	38724559	Super-resolution proximity labeling with enhanced direct identification of biotinylation sites. 	Super-resolution proximity labeling method with enhanced direct identification of biotinylation sites	APEX2, BioID, LC-MS, Proximity labeling, TurboID, biotinylation site, membrane protein topology	Promiscuous labeling enzymes, such as APEX2 or TurboID, are commonly used in in situ biotinylation studies of subcellular proteomes or protein-protein interactions. Although the conventional approach of enriching biotinylated proteins is widely implemented, in-depth identification of specific biotinylation sites remains challenging, and current approaches are technically demanding with low yields. A novel method to systematically identify specific biotinylation sites for LC-MS analysis followed by proximity labeling showed excellent performance compared with that of related approaches in terms of identification depth with high enrichment power. The systematic identification of biotinylation sites enabled a simpler and more efficient experimental design to identify subcellular localized proteins within membranous organelles. Applying this method to the processing body (PB), a non-membranous organelle, successfully allowed unbiased identification of PB core proteins, including novel candidates. We anticipate that our newly developed method will replace the conventional method for identifying biotinylated proteins labeled by promiscuous labeling enzymes.
PXD041668	38725025	Proteomic change in the upper lobe of the left lung of Beagle dogs at the lung migration stage of Toxocara canis infection. 	Proteome alterations in the lung of Beagle dogs during the lung migration stage of Toxocara canis infection	Beagle dog, Proteome alterations, lung	BACKGROUND: Toxocara canis is considered one of the most neglected parasitic zoonoses and threatens the health of millions of people worldwide with a predilection for pediatric and adolescent populations in impoverished communities. Exploring the invasion and developmental mechanisms associated with T. canis infection in its definitive canine hosts will help to better control zoonotic toxocariasis. METHODS: Proteomic changes in samples from the upper lobe of the left lung of Beagle puppies were systematically analyzed by quantitative proteomic technology of data-independent acquisition (DIA) at 96 h post-infection (hpi) with T. canis. Proteins with P-values < 0.05 and fold change > 1.5 or < 0.67 were considered proteins with differential abundance (PDAs). RESULTS: A total of 28 downregulated PDAs and 407 upregulated PDAs were identified at 96 hpi, including RhoC, TM4SFs and LPCAT1, which could be associated with the maintenance and repair of lung homeostasis. GO annotation and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses of all identified proteins and PDAs revealed that many lung proteins have correlation to signal transduction, lipid metabolism and immune system. CONCLUSIONS: The present study revealed lung proteomic alterations in Beagle dogs at the lung migration stage of T. canis infection and identified many PDAs of Beagle dog lung, which may play important roles in the pathogenesis of toxocariasis, warranting further experimental validation.
PXD041276	38725063	Proteo-transcriptomic profiles reveal key regulatory pathways and functions of LDHA in the ovulation of domestic chickens (Gallus gallus). 	A DIA-based proteome profiling of largest preovulatory follicle (F1) of hens	Chicken, Ovulation, Proteome profiling, The largest preovulatory follicle	BACKGROUND: In poultry, the smooth transition of follicles from the preovulatory-to-postovulatory phase impacts egg production in hens and can benefit the poultry industry. However, the regulatory mechanism underlying follicular ovulation in avians is a complex biological process that remains unclear. RESULTS: Critical biochemical events involved in ovulation in domestic chickens (Gallus gallus) were evaluated by transcriptomics, proteomics, and in vitro assays. Comparative transcriptome analyses of the largest preovulatory follicle (F1) and postovulatory follicle (POF1) in continuous laying (CL) and intermittent laying (IL) chickens indicated the greatest difference between CL_F1 and IL_F1, with 950 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and the smallest difference between CL_POF1 and IL_POF1, with 14 DEGs. Additionally, data-independent acquisition proteomics revealed 252 differentially abundant proteins between CL_F1 and IL_F1. Perivitelline membrane synthesis, steroid biosynthesis, lysosomes, and oxidative phosphorylation were identified as pivotal pathways contributing to ovulation regulation. In particular, the regulation of zona pellucida sperm-binding protein 3, plasminogen activator, cathepsin A, and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) was shown to be essential for ovulation. Furthermore, the inhibition of LDHA decreased cell viability and promoted apoptosis of ovarian follicles in vitro. CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals several important biochemical events involved in the process of ovulation, as well as crucial role of LDHA. These findings improve our understanding of ovulation and its regulatory mechanisms in avian species.
PXD041692	38725372	Integrated multi-omics approach reveals the role of striated muscle preferentially expressed protein kinase in skeletal muscle including its relationship with myospryn complex. 	Integrated multi-omics approach reveals the role of SPEG in skeletal muscle biology including its relationship with myospryn complex	Mouse skeletal muscle	BACKGROUND: Autosomal-recessive mutations in SPEG (striated muscle preferentially expressed protein kinase) have been linked to centronuclear myopathy with or without dilated cardiomyopathy (CNM5). Loss of SPEG is associated with defective triad formation, abnormal excitation-contraction coupling, calcium mishandling and disruption of the focal adhesion complex in skeletal muscles. To elucidate the underlying molecular pathways, we have utilized multi-omics tools and analysis to obtain a comprehensive view of the complex biological processes and molecular functions. METHODS: Skeletal muscles from 2-month-old SPEG-deficient (Speg-CKO) and wild-type (WT) mice were used for RNA sequencing (n = 4 per genotype) to profile transcriptomics and mass spectrometry (n = 4 for WT; n = 3 for Speg-CKO mice) to profile proteomics and phosphoproteomics. In addition, interactomics was performed using the SPEG antibody on pooled muscle lysates (quadriceps, gastrocnemius and triceps) from WT and Speg-CKO mice. Based on the multi-omics results, we performed quantitative real-time PCR, co-immunoprecipitation and immunoblot to verify the findings. RESULTS: We identified that SPEG interacts with myospryn complex proteins CMYA5, FSD2 and RyR1, which are critical for triad formation, and that SPEG deficiency results in myospryn complex abnormalities (protein levels decreased to 22 +/- 3% for CMYA5 [P < 0.05] and 18 +/- 3% for FSD2 [P < 0.01]). Furthermore, SPEG phosphorylates RyR1 at S2902 (phosphorylation level decreased to 55 +/- 15% at S2902 in Speg-CKO mice; P < 0.05), and its loss affects JPH2 phosphorylation at multiple sites (increased phosphorylation at T161 [1.90 +/- 0.24-fold], S162 [1.61 +/- 0.37-fold] and S165 [1.66 +/- 0.13-fold]; decreased phosphorylation at S228 and S231 [39 +/- 6%], S234 [50 +/- 12%], S593 [48 +/- 3%] and S613 [66 +/- 10%]; P < 0.05 for S162 and P < 0.01 for other sites). On analysing the transcriptome, the most dysregulated pathways affected by SPEG deficiency included extracellular matrix-receptor interaction (P < 1e(-15)) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor signalling (P < 9e(-14)). CONCLUSIONS: We have elucidated the critical role of SPEG in the triad as it works closely with myospryn complex proteins (CMYA5, FSD2 and RyR1), it regulates phosphorylation levels of various residues in JPH2 and S2902 in RyR1, and its deficiency is associated with dysregulation of several pathways. The study identifies unique SPEG-interacting proteins and their phosphorylation functions and emphasizes the importance of using a multi-omics approach to comprehensively evaluate the molecular function of proteins involved in various genetic disorders.
PXD044792	38725909	Discovery of potent and selective activity-based probes (ABPs) for the deubiquitinating enzyme USP30. 	Discovery of highly Potent and Selective Activity-Based Probes for the Deubiquitylating Enzyme USP30	Activity-based probes, DESI, USP30, chemical probes, deubiquitinase.	Ubiquitin-specific protease 30 (USP30) is a deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) localized at the mitochondrial outer membrane and involved in PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy, pexophagy, BAX/BAK-dependent apoptosis, and IKKbeta-USP30-ACLY-regulated lipogenesis/tumorigenesis. A USP30 inhibitor, MTX652, has recently entered clinical trials as a potential treatment for mitochondrial dysfunction. Small molecule activity-based probes (ABPs) for DUBs have recently emerged as powerful tools for in-cell inhibitor screening and DUB activity analysis, and here, we report the first small molecule ABPs (IMP-2587 and IMP-2586) which can profile USP30 activity in cells. Target engagement studies demonstrate that IMP-2587 and IMP-2586 engage active USP30 at nanomolar concentration after only 10 min incubation time in intact cells, dependent on the presence of the USP30 catalytic cysteine. Interestingly, proteomics analyses revealed that DESI1 and DESI2, small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) proteases, can also be engaged by these probes, further suggesting a novel approach to develop DESI ABPs.
PXD044709	38726870	Reduction of ZFX levels decreases histone H4 acetylation and increases Pol2 pausing at target promoters. 	Reduction of ZFX levels decreases histone H4 acetylation and increases the pause ratio at target promoters	Elongation, Pol2 pausing, Transcription, TurboID, ZFX	The ZFX transcriptional activator binds to CpG island promoters, with a major peak at ~200-250 bp downstream from transcription start sites. Because ZFX binds within the transcribed region, we investigated whether it regulates transcriptional elongation. We used GRO-seq to show that loss or reduction of ZFX increased Pol2 pausing at ZFX-regulated promoters. To further investigate the mechanisms by which ZFX regulates transcription, we determined regions of the protein needed for transactivation and for recruitment to the chromatin. Interestingly, although ZFX has 13 grouped zinc fingers, deletion of the first 11 fingers produces a protein that can still bind to chromatin and activate transcription. We next used TurboID-MS to detect ZFX-interacting proteins, identifying ZNF593, as well as proteins that interact with the N-terminal transactivation domain (which included histone modifying proteins), and proteins that interact with ZFX when it is bound to the chromatin (which included TAFs and other histone modifying proteins). Our studies support a model in which ZFX enhances elongation at target promoters by recruiting H4 acetylation complexes and reducing pausing.
PXD019976	38727211	Seminal plasma S100A8/A9 as a potential biomarker of genital tract inflammation. 	A research and new understanding for autoimmune sterility from seminal plasma proteomics	male infertility orchitisautoimmunity, idiopathicoxidative stress	ABSTRACT: Infections and inflammatory reactions in the male genital tract are the leading causes of male infertility with a prevalence of 6%-10%, primarily affecting testicular and epididymal function and ultimately compromising sperm quality. However, most infertile patients with genital infection/inflammation are asymptomatic and easily overlooked. Traditional indicators, including white blood cells, elastase, and other components in semen, can reflect inflammation of the genital tract, but there is still a lack of a uniform standard method of detection. Therefore, it is necessary to explore reliable markers in semen that reflect the inflammatory status of the genital tract. Using the experimental autoimmune orchitis (EAO) model to simulate noninfectious chronic orchitis, we successfully collected ejaculated seminal fluid from EAO rats using optimized electrical stimulation devices. Proteomic analysis was performed using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ). Compared to the control group, 55 upregulated and 105 downregulated proteins were identified in seminal plasma samples from the EAO group. In a preliminary screening, the inflammation-related protein S100A8/A9 was upregulated. We further verified that S100A8/A9 was increased in seminal plasma and highly expressed in testicular macrophages of the EAO model. In patients with oligoasthenospermia and genital tract infections, we also found that S100A8/A9 levels were remarkably increased in seminal plasma and testicular macrophages. S100A8/A9 in semen may be a potential biomarker for chronic genital inflammation. Our study provides a new potential biomarker for early diagnosis and further understanding of male infertility caused by genital inflammation.
PXD041034	38727273	Differentiation and Regulation of Bovine Th2 Cells In Vitro. 	 Regulation of bovine Th2 differentiation in Vitro	IFN gamma, IL-4, Th2 differentiation, bovine	Bovine Th2 cells have usually been characterized by IL4 mRNA expression, but it is unclear whether their IL4 protein expression corresponds to transcription. We found that grass-fed healthy beef cattle, which had been regularly exposed to parasites on the grass, had a low frequency of IL4+ Th2 cells during flow cytometry, similar to animals grown in feedlots. To assess the distribution of IL4+ CD4+ T cells across tissues, samples from the blood, spleen, abomasal (draining), and inguinal lymph nodes were examined, which revealed limited IL4 protein detection in the CD4+ T cells across the examined tissues. To determine if bovine CD4+ T cells may develop into Th2 cells, naive cells were stimulated with anti-bovine CD3 under a Th2 differentiation kit in vitro. The cells produced primarily IFNgamma proteins, with only a small fraction (<10%) co-expressing IL4 proteins. Quantitative PCR confirmed elevated IFNgamma transcription but no significant change in IL4 transcription. Surprisingly, GATA3, the master regulator of IL4, was highest in naive CD4+ T cells but was considerably reduced following differentiation. To determine if the differentiated cells were true Th2 cells, an unbiased proteomic assay was carried out. The assay identified 4212 proteins, 422 of which were differently expressed compared to those in naive cells. Based on these differential proteins, Th2-related upstream components were predicted, including CD3, CD28, IL4, and IL33, demonstrating typical Th2 differentiation. To boost IL4 expression, T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation strength was reduced by lowering anti-CD3 concentrations. Consequently, weak TCR stimulation essentially abolished Th2 expansion and survival. In addition, extra recombinant bovine IL4 (rbIL4) was added during Th2 differentiation, but, despite enhanced expansion, the IL4 level remained unaltered. These findings suggest that, while bovine CD4+ T cells can respond to Th2 differentiation stimuli, the bovine IL4 pathway is not regulated in the same way as in mice and humans. Furthermore, Ostertagia ostertagi (OO) extract, a gastrointestinal nematode in cattle, inhibited signaling via CD3, CD28, IL4, and TLRs/MYD88, indicating that external pathogens can influence bovine Th2 differentiation. In conclusion, though bovine CD4+ T cells can respond to IL4-driven differentiation, IL4 expression is not a defining feature of differentiated bovine Th2 cells.
PXD008394	38727290	Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Reveals Cardiac Fibroblast-Specific Transcriptomic Changes in Dilated Cardiomyopathy. 	AMpylation is a hallmark of human neuronal differentiation	AMPylation, FICD, cerebral organoids., chemical-proteomics, neuronal development, phosphoramidate prodrugs	Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is the most common cause of heart failure, with a complex aetiology involving multiple cell types. We aimed to detect cell-specific transcriptomic alterations in DCM through analysis that leveraged recent advancements in single-cell analytical tools. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from human DCM cardiac tissue were subjected to an updated bioinformatic workflow in which unsupervised clustering was paired with reference label transfer to more comprehensively annotate the dataset. Differential gene expression was detected primarily in the cardiac fibroblast population. Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on an independent cohort of human cardiac tissue and compared with scRNA-seq gene alterations to generate a stratified list of higher-confidence, fibroblast-specific expression candidates for further validation. Concordant gene dysregulation was confirmed in TGFbeta-induced fibroblasts. Functional assessment of gene candidates showed that AEBP1 may play a significant role in fibroblast activation. This unbiased approach enabled improved resolution of cardiac cell-type-specific transcriptomic alterations in DCM.
PXD045146	38728223	In-Depth Endogenous Phosphopeptidomics of Serum with Zirconium(IV)-Grafted Mesoporous Silica Enrichment. 	In-depth Endogenous Phosphopeptidomics of Serum with Zirconium (IV)-Grafted Mesoporous Silica Enrichment	phosphoproteome, serum	Detection of endogenous peptides, especially those with modifications (such as phosphorylation) in biofluids, can serve as an indicator of intracellular pathophysiology. Although great progress has been made in phosphoproteomics in recent years, endogenous phosphopeptidomics has largely lagged behind. One main hurdle in endogenous phosphopeptidomics analysis is the coexistence of proteins and highly abundant nonmodified peptides in complex matrices. In this study, we developed an approach using zirconium(IV)-grafted mesoporous beads to enrich phosphopeptides, followed by analysis with a high resolution nanoRPLC-MS/MS system. The bifunctional material was first tested with digests of standard phosphoproteins and HeLa cell lysates, with excellent enrichment performance achieved. Given the size exclusion nature, the beads were directly applied for endogenous phosphopeptidomic analysis of serum samples from pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients and controls. In total, 329 endogenous phosphopeptides (containing 113 high confidence sites) were identified across samples, by far the largest endogenous phosphopeptide data set cataloged to date. In addition, the method was readily applied for phosphoproteomics of the same set of samples, with 172 phosphopeptides identified and significant changes in dozens of phosphopeptides observed. Given the simplicity and robustness of the proposed method, we envision that it can be readily used for comprehensive phosphorylation studies of serum and other biofluid samples.
PXD046317	38728348	Disturbance in the protein landscape of cochlear perilymph in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model. 	Proteomic analysis of cochlear perilymph in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, hearing loss, mice, perilymph	Hearing loss is a pivotal risk factor for dementia. It has recently emerged that a disruption in the intercommunication between the cochlea and brain is a key process in the initiation and progression of this disease. However, whether the cochlear properties can be influenced by pathological signals associated with dementia remains unclear. In this study, using a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we investigated the impacts of the AD-like amyloid beta (Abeta) pathology in the brain on the cochlea. Despite little detectable change in the age-related shift of the hearing threshold, we observed quantitative and qualitative alterations in the protein profile in perilymph, an extracellular fluid that fills the path of sound waves in the cochlea. Our findings highlight the potential contribution of Abeta pathology in the brain to the disturbance of cochlear homeostasis.
PXD048260	38728789	The dynamic TRPV2 ion channel proximity proteome reveals functional links of calcium flux with cellular adhesion factors NCAM and L1CAM in neurite outgrowth. 	TRPV2 ion channel interactome reveals functional interaction with NCAM and L1CAM in neurite outgrowth	L1CAM, Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), TRPV2, neurite outgrowth	TRPV2 voltage-insensitive, calcium-permeable ion channels play important roles in cancer progression, immune response, and neuronal development. Despite TRPV2's physiological impact, underlying endogenous proteins mediating TRPV2 responses and affected signaling pathways remain elusive. Using quantitative peroxidase-catalyzed (APEX2) proximity proteomics we uncover dynamic changes in the TRPV2-proximal proteome and identify calcium signaling and cell adhesion factors recruited to the molecular channel neighborhood in response to activation. Quantitative TRPV2 proximity proteomics further revealed activation-induced enrichment of protein clusters with biological functions in neural and cellular projection. We demonstrate a functional connection between TRPV2 and the neural immunoglobulin cell adhesion molecules NCAM and L1CAM. NCAM and L1CAM stimulation robustly induces TRPV2 [Ca(2+)]I flux in neuronal PC12 cells and this TRPV2-specific [Ca(2+)]I flux requires activation of the protein kinase PKCalpha. TRPV2 expression directly impacts neurite lengths that are modulated by NCAM or L1CAM stimulation. Hence, TRPV2's calcium signaling plays a previously undescribed, yet vital role in cell adhesion, and TRPV2 calcium flux and neurite development are intricately linked via NCAM and L1CAM cell adhesion proteins.
PXD044892	38730238	Multimodal binding and inhibition of bacterial ribosomes by the antimicrobial peptides Api137 and Api88. 	Antimicrobial peptides of the apidaecin family inhibit the bacterial ribosome by multimodal mechanisms involving three different sites on the large ribosomal subunit	70S ribosome, PrAMPs	Proline-rich antimicrobial peptides (PrAMPs) inhibit bacterial protein biosynthesis by binding to the polypeptide exit tunnel (PET) near the peptidyl transferase center. Api137, an optimized derivative of honeybee PrAMP apidaecin, inhibits protein expression by trapping release factors (RFs), which interact with stop codons on ribosomes to terminate translation. This study uses cryo-EM, functional assays and molecular dynamic (MD) simulations to show that Api137 additionally occupies a second binding site near the exit of the PET and can repress translation independently of RF-trapping. Api88, a C-terminally amidated (-CONH2) analog of Api137 (-COOH), binds to the same sites, occupies a third binding pocket and interferes with the translation process presumably without RF-trapping. In conclusion, apidaecin-derived PrAMPs inhibit bacterial ribosomes by multimodal mechanisms caused by minor structural changes and thus represent a promising pool for drug development efforts.
PXD048695	38730615	L-Glyceraldehyde Inhibits Neuroblastoma Cell Growth via a Multi-Modal Mechanism on Metabolism and Signaling. 	L-Glyceraldehyde inhibits neuroblastoma cell 1 growth via a multi-modal mechanism on metabolism 2 and signaling	cancer, glycolysis, metabolism, neuroblastoma, redox	Glyceraldehyde (GA) is a three-carbon monosaccharide that can be present in cells as a by-product of fructose metabolism. Bruno Mendel and Otto Warburg showed that the application of GA to cancer cells inhibits glycolysis and their growth. However, the molecular mechanism by which this occurred was not clarified. We describe a novel multi-modal mechanism by which the L-isomer of GA (L-GA) inhibits neuroblastoma cell growth. L-GA induces significant changes in the metabolic profile, promotes oxidative stress and hinders nucleotide biosynthesis. GC-MS and (13)C-labeling was employed to measure the flow of carbon through glycolytic intermediates under L-GA treatment. It was found that L-GA is a potent inhibitor of glycolysis due to its proposed targeting of NAD(H)-dependent reactions. This results in growth inhibition, apoptosis and a redox crisis in neuroblastoma cells. It was confirmed that the redox mechanisms were modulated via L-GA by proteomic analysis. Analysis of nucleotide pools in L-GA-treated cells depicted a previously unreported observation, in which nucleotide biosynthesis is significantly inhibited. The inhibitory action of L-GA was partially relieved with the co-application of the antioxidant N-acetyl-cysteine. We present novel evidence for a simple sugar that inhibits cancer cell proliferation via dysregulating its fragile homeostatic environment.
PXD046350	38731285	Proteomic Insights into Seminal Plasma and Spermatozoa Proteins of Small-Spotted Catsharks, Scyliorhinus canicula: Implications for Reproductive Conservation in Aquariums. 	Proteomic Insights into Seminal Plasma and Spermatozoa of Small-Spotted Catsharks (Scyliorhinus canicula): Spectral Libraries	SWATH, Sharks spermatozoa, differential proteomics, seminal plasma	In the ex situ conservation of chondrichthyan species, successful reproduction in aquaria is essential. However, these species often exhibit reduced reproductive success under human care. A key aspect is that conventional sperm analyses do not provide insights into the functional competence of sperm. However, proteomics analysis enables a better understanding of male physiology, gaining relevance as a powerful tool for discovering protein biomarkers related to fertility. The present work aims to build the first proteome database for shark semen and to investigate the proteomic profiles of seminal plasma and spermatozoa from small-spotted catsharks (Scyliorhinus canicula) related to the underlying adaptations to both natural and aquarium environments, thereby identifying the reproductive impact in aquarium specimens. A total of 305 seminal plasma and 535 spermatozoa proteins were identified. Among these, 89 proteins (29.2% of the seminal plasma set) were common to both spermatozoa and seminal plasma. In the seminal plasma, only adenosylhomocysteinase protein showed differential abundance (DAP) between wild and aquarium animals. With respect to the spermatozoa proteins, a total of 107 DAPs were found between groups. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis highlighted the primary functional roles of these DAPs involved in oxidoreductase activity. Additionally, KEGG analysis indicated that these DAPs were primarily associated with metabolic pathways and carbon metabolism. In conclusion, we have successfully generated an initial proteome database for S. canicula seminal plasma and spermatozoa. Furthermore, we have identified protein variations, predominantly within spermatozoa, between aquarium and wild populations of S. canicula. These findings provide a foundation for future biomarker discovery in shark reproduction studies. However, additional research is required to determine whether these protein variations correlate with reproductive declines in captive sharks.
PXD050317	38731835	Systems Biology for Drug Target Discovery in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	Proteome dynamics of HL-60, NB4, and K562 cells under the ATRA treatment	ATRA, HL-60 cell line, K562 cell line, NB4 cell line, TMT labeling, time-course experiment	Combining new therapeutics with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) could improve the efficiency of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treatment. Modeling the process of ATRA-induced differentiation based on the transcriptomic profile of leukemic cells resulted in the identification of key targets that can be used to increase the therapeutic effect of ATRA. The genome-scale transcriptome analysis revealed the early molecular response to the ATRA treatment of HL-60 cells. In this study, we performed the transcriptomic profiling of HL-60, NB4, and K562 cells exposed to ATRA for 3-72 h. After treatment with ATRA for 3, 12, 24, and 72 h, we found 222, 391, 359, and 1032 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in HL-60 cells, as well as 641, 1037, 1011, and 1499 DEGs in NB4 cells. We also found 538 and 119 DEGs in K562 cells treated with ATRA for 24 h and 72 h, respectively. Based on experimental transcriptomic data, we performed hierarchical modeling and determined cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and transcriptional repressor CUX1 as the key regulators of the molecular response to the ATRA treatment in HL-60, NB4, and K562 cell lines, respectively. Mapping the data of TMT-based mass-spectrometric profiling on the modeling schemes, we determined CDK6 expression at the proteome level and its down-regulation at the transcriptome and proteome levels in cells treated with ATRA for 72 h. The combination of therapy with a CDK6 inhibitor (palbociclib) and ATRA (tretinoin) could be an alternative approach for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
PXD040944	38732093	VRK1 Regulates Sensitivity to Oxidative Stress by Altering Histone Epigenetic Modifications and the Nuclear Phosphoproteome in Tumor Cells. 	VRK1 regulates sensitivity to oxidative stress by altering the nuclear phosphoproteome and histone epigenetic modifications	VRK1, acetylation, chromatin, methylation, nuclear proteins, oxidative stress, phosphoproteomics	The chromatin organization and its dynamic remodeling determine its accessibility and sensitivity to DNA damage oxidative stress, the main source of endogenous DNA damage. We studied the role of the VRK1 chromatin kinase in the response to oxidative stress. which alters the nuclear pattern of histone epigenetic modifications and phosphoproteome pathways. The early effect of oxidative stress on chromatin was studied by determining the levels of 8-oxoG lesions and the alteration of the epigenetic modification of histones. Oxidative stress caused an accumulation of 8-oxoG DNA lesions that were increased by VRK1 depletion, causing a significant accumulation of DNA strand breaks detected by labeling free 3'-DNA ends. In addition, oxidative stress altered the pattern of chromatin epigenetic marks and the nuclear phosphoproteome pathways that were impaired by VRK1 depletion. Oxidative stress induced the acetylation of H4K16ac and H3K9 and the loss of H3K4me3. The depletion of VRK1 altered all these modifications induced by oxidative stress and resulted in losses of H4K16ac and H3K9ac and increases in the H3K9me3 and H3K4me3 levels. All these changes were induced by the oxidative stress in the epigenetic pattern of histones and impaired by VRK1 depletion, indicating that VRK1 plays a major role in the functional reorganization of chromatin in the response to oxidative stress. The analysis of the nuclear phosphoproteome in response to oxidative stress detected an enrichment of the phosphorylated proteins associated with the chromosome organization and chromatin remodeling pathways, which were significantly decreased by VRK1 depletion. VRK1 depletion alters the histone epigenetic pattern and nuclear phosphoproteome pathways in response to oxidative stress. The enzymes performing post-translational epigenetic modifications are potential targets in synthetic lethality strategies for cancer therapies.
PXD046114	38732249	TGF-beta2 Induces Ribosome Activity, Alters Ribosome Composition and Inhibits IRES-Mediated Translation in Chondrocytes. 	Ribosomal proteome of SW1353 cells cultured in the presence of the 10 ng/ml TGF-beta3	SW1353, TGFb, ribosomal proteome	Alterations in cell fate are often attributed to (epigenetic) regulation of gene expression. An emerging paradigm focuses on specialized ribosomes within a cell. However, little evidence exists for the dynamic regulation of ribosome composition and function. Here, we stimulated a chondrocytic cell line with transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta2) and mapped changes in ribosome function, composition and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) epitranscriptomics. 35S Met/Cys incorporation was used to evaluate ribosome activity. Dual luciferase reporter assays were used to assess ribosomal modus. Ribosomal RNA expression and processing were determined by RT-qPCR, while RiboMethSeq and HydraPsiSeq were used to determine rRNA modification profiles. Label-free protein quantification of total cell lysates, isolated ribosomes and secreted proteins was done by LC-MS/MS. A three-day TGF-beta2 stimulation induced total protein synthesis in SW1353 chondrocytic cells and human articular chondrocytes. Specifically, TGF-beta2 induced cap-mediated protein synthesis, while IRES-mediated translation was not (P53 IRES) or little affected (CrPv IGR and HCV IRES). Three rRNA post-transcriptional modifications (PTMs) were affected by TGF-beta2 stimulation (18S-Gm1447 downregulated, 18S-psi1177 and 28S-psi4598 upregulated). Proteomic analysis of isolated ribosomes revealed increased interaction with eIF2 and tRNA ligases and decreased association of eIF4A3 and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (HNRNP)s. In addition, thirteen core ribosomal proteins were more present in ribosomes from TGF-beta2 stimulated cells, albeit with a modest fold change. A prolonged stimulation of chondrocytic cells with TGF-beta2 induced ribosome activity and changed the mode of translation. These functional changes could be coupled to alterations in accessory proteins in the ribosomal proteome.
PXD050018	38733638	Liposome-encapsulated mannose-1-phosphate therapy improves global N-glycosylation in different congenital disorders of glycosylation. 	Liposome-encapsulated mannose-1-phosphate therapy improves global N-glycosylation in different congenital disorders of glycosylation	Congenital disorders of glycosylation, GLM101, PMM2-CDG, glycoproteomics, glycosylation, therapy	Phosphomannomutase 2 (PMM2) converts mannose-6-phospahate to mannose-1-phosphate; the substrate for GDP-mannose, a building block of the glycosylation biosynthetic pathway. Pathogenic variants in the PMM2 gene have been shown to be associated with protein hypoglycosylation causing PMM2-congenital disorder of glycosylation (PMM2-CDG). While mannose supplementation improves glycosylation in vitro, but not in vivo, we hypothesized that liposomal delivery of mannose-1-phosphate could increase the stability and delivery of the activated sugar to enter the targeted compartments of cells. Thus, we studied the effect of liposome-encapsulated mannose-1-P (GLM101) on global protein glycosylation and on the cellular proteome in skin fibroblasts from individuals with PMM2-CDG, as well as in individuals with two N-glycosylation defects early in the pathway, namely ALG2-CDG and ALG11-CDG. We leveraged multiplexed proteomics and N-glycoproteomics in fibroblasts derived from different individuals with various pathogenic variants in PMM2, ALG2 and ALG11 genes. Proteomics data revealed a moderate but significant change in the abundance of some of the proteins in all CDG fibroblasts upon GLM101 treatment. On the other hand, N-glycoproteomics revealed the GLM101 treatment enhanced the expression levels of several high-mannose and complex/hybrid glycopeptides from numerous cellular proteins in individuals with defects in PMM2 and ALG2 genes. Both PMM2-CDG and ALG2-CDG exhibited several-fold increase in glycopeptides bearing Man6 and higher glycans and a decrease in Man5 and smaller glycan moieties, suggesting that GLM101 helps in the formation of mature glycoforms. These changes in protein glycosylation were observed in all individuals irrespective of their genetic variants. ALG11-CDG fibroblasts also showed increase in high mannose glycopeptides upon treatment; however, the improvement was not as dramatic as the other two CDG. Overall, our findings suggest that treatment with GLM101 overcomes the genetic block in the glycosylation pathway and can be used as a potential therapy for CDG with enzymatic defects in early steps in protein N-glycosylation.
PXD050221	38735474	FOXK2 targeting by the SCF-E3 ligase subunit FBXO24 for ubiquitin mediated degradation modulates mitochondrial respiration. 	FOXK2 targeting by the SCF-E3 ligase subunit FBXO24 for ubiquitin mediated degradation modulates mitochondrial respiration	FOXK2, Pulldown	FOXK2 is a crucial transcription factor implicated in a wide array of biological activities and yet understanding of its molecular regulation at the level of protein turnover is limited. Here we identify that FOXK2 undergoes degradation in lung epithelia in the presence of the virulent pathogens P. aeruginosa and K. pneumoniae through ubiquitin-proteasomal processing. FOXK2 through its carboxyl-terminus (aa 428-478) binds the Skp-Cullin-F-box ubiquitin E3 ligase subunit FBXO24 that mediates multisite polyubiquitylation of the transcription factor resulting in its nuclear degradation. FOXK2 was detected within mitochondria and targeted depletion of the transcription factor or cellular expression of FOXK2 mutants devoid of key carboxyl-terminal domains significantly impaired mitochondrial function. In experimental bacterial pneumonia, Fbxo24 heterozygous mice exhibited preserved mitochondrial function and Foxk2 protein levels compared to wild-type littermates. The results suggest a new mode of regulatory control of mitochondrial energetics through modulation of FOXK2 cellular abundance.
PXD046254	38735538	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals functional alterations of the peripheral immune system in colorectal cancer. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals functional alterations of the peripheral immune system in colorectal cancer	Colorectal cancer, Ligand-receptor interaction, Peripheral immune system, Quantitative proteomics, biomarker	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is characterized by high morbidity, high mortality, and limited response to immunotherapies. The peripheral immune system is an important component of tumor immunity, and enhancements of peripheral immunity help to suppress tumor progression. However, the functional alterations of the peripheral immune system in CRC are unclear. Here, we used mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics to establish a protein expression atlas for the peripheral immune system in CRC, including plasma and five types of immune cells (CD4(+) T cells, CD8(+) T cells, monocytes, natural killer cells, and B cells). Synthesizing the results of the multidimensional analysis, we observed an enhanced inflammatory phenotype in CRC, including elevated expression of plasma inflammatory proteins, activation of the inflammatory pathway in monocytes, and increased inflammation-related ligand-receptor interactions. Notably, we observed tumor effects on peripheral T cells, including altered cell subpopulation ratios and suppression of cell function. Suppression of CD4(+) T cell function is mainly mediated by high expression levels of protein tyrosine phosphatases. Among them, the expression of protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type J (PTPRJ) gradually increased with CRC progression; knockdown of PTPRJ in vitro could promote T cell activation, thereby enhancing peripheral immunity. We also found that the combination of leucine-rich alpha-2 glycoprotein 1 (LRG1) and apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4) had the best predictive ability for colorectal cancer and has the potential to be a biomarker. Overall, this study provides a comprehensive understanding of the peripheral immune system in CRC. It also offers insights regarding the potential clinical utilities of these peripheral immune characteristics as diagnostic indicators and therapeutic targets.
PXD051093	38735925	Mapping dynamic molecular changes in hippocampal subregions after traumatic brain injury through spatial proteomics. 	Mapping Dynamic Molecular Changes in Hippocampal Subregions After Traumatic Brain Injury Through Spatial Proteomics	LC-MS, Laser microdissection (LMD), Traumatic brain injury, acute and sub-acute phase, hippocampus, spatial proteomics	BACKGROUND: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) often results in diverse molecular responses, challenging traditional proteomic studies that measure average changes at tissue levels and fail to capture the complexity and heterogeneity of the affected tissues. Spatial proteomics offers a solution by providing insights into sub-region-specific alterations within tissues. This study focuses on the hippocampal sub-regions, analyzing proteomic expression profiles in mice at the acute (1 day) and subacute (7 days) phases of post-TBI to understand subregion-specific vulnerabilities and long-term consequences. METHODS: Three mice brains were collected from each group, including Sham, 1-day post-TBI and 7-day post-TBI. Hippocampal subregions were extracted using Laser Microdissection (LMD) and subsequently analyzed by label-free quantitative proteomics. RESULTS: The spatial analysis reveals region-specific protein abundance changes, highlighting the elevation of FN1, LGALS3BP, HP, and MUG-1 in the stratum moleculare (SM), suggesting potential immune cell enrichment post-TBI. Notably, established markers of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, IGHM and B2M, exhibit specific upregulation in the dentate gyrus bottom (DG2) independent of direct mechanical injury. Metabolic pathway analysis identifies disturbances in glucose and lipid metabolism, coupled with activated cholesterol synthesis pathways enriched in SM at 7-Day post-TBI and subsequently in deeper DG1 and DG2 suggesting a role in neurogenesis and the onset of recovery. Coordinated activation of neuroglia and microtubule dynamics in DG2 suggest recovery mechanisms in less affected regions. Cluster analysis revealed spatial variations post-TBI, indicative of dysregulated neuronal plasticity and neurogenesis and further predisposition to neurological disorders. TBI-induced protein upregulation (MUG-1, PZP, GFAP, TJP, STAT-1, and CD44) across hippocampal sub-regions indicates shared molecular responses and links to neurological disorders. Spatial variations were demonstrated by proteins dysregulated in both or either of the time-points exclusively in each subregion (ELAVL2, CLIC1 in PL, CD44 and MUG-1 in SM, and SHOC2, LGALS3 in DG). CONCLUSIONS: Utilizing advanced spatial proteomics techniques, the study unveils the dynamic molecular responses in distinct hippocampal subregions post-TBI. It uncovers region-specific vulnerabilities and dysregulated neuronal processes, and potential recovery-related pathways that contribute to our understanding of TBI's neurological consequences and provides valuable insights for biomarker discovery and therapeutic targets.
PXD036497	38735939	Multi-omics integration highlights the role of ubiquitination in endometriosis fibrosis. 	Multi-Omics Integration Highlights the Role of Ubiquitination in Endometriosis Fibrosis	Endometriosis	BACKGROUND: Endometriosis, characterized by the presence of active endometrial-like tissues outside the uterus, causes symptoms like dysmenorrhea and infertility due to the fibrosis of endometrial cells, which involves excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Ubiquitination, an important post-transcriptional modification, regulates various biological processes in human diseases. However, its role in the fibrosis process in endometriosis remains unclear. METHODS: We employed multi-omics approaches on two cohorts of endometriosis patients with 39 samples. GO terms and KEGG pathways enrichment analyses were used to investigate the functional changes involved in endometriosis. Pearson's correlation coefficient analysis was conducted to explore the relationship between global proteome and ubiquitylome in endometriosis. The protein expression levels of ubiquitin-, fibrosis-related proteins, and E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase TRIM33 were validated via Western blot. Transfecting human endometrial stroma cells (hESCs) with TRIM33 small interfering RNA (siRNA) in vitro to explore how TRIM33 affects fibrosis-related proteins. RESULTS: Integration of proteomics and transcriptomics showed genes with concurrent change of both mRNA and protein level which involved in ECM production in ectopic endometria. Ubiquitylomics distinguished 1647 and 1698 ubiquitinated lysine sites in the ectopic (EC) group compared to the normal (NC) and eutopic (EU) groups, respectively. Further multi-omics integration highlighted the essential role of ubiquitination in key fibrosis regulators in endometriosis. Correlation analysis between proteome and ubiquitylome showed correlation coefficients of 0.32 and 0.36 for ubiquitinated fibrosis proteins in EC/NC and EC/EU groups, respectively, indicating positive regulation of fibrosis-related protein expression by ubiquitination in ectopic lesions. We identified ubiquitination in 41 pivotal proteins within the fibrosis-related pathway of endometriosis. Finally, the elevated expression of TGFBR1/alpha-SMA/FAP/FN1/Collagen1 proteins in EC tissues were validated across independent samples. More importantly, we demonstrated that both the mRNA and protein levels of TRIM33 were reduced in endometriotic tissues. Knockdown of TRIM33 promoted TGFBR1/p-SMAD2/alpha-SMA/FN1 protein expressions in hESCs but did not significantly affect Collagen1/FAP levels, suggesting its inhibitory effect on fibrosis in vitro. CONCLUSIONS: This study, employing multi-omics approaches, provides novel insights into endometriosis ubiquitination profiles and reveals aberrant expression of the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM33 in endometriotic tissues, emphasizing their critical involvement in fibrosis pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets.
PXD032938	38737506	Streamlining Protein Fractional Synthesis Rates Using SP3 Beads and Stable Isotope Mass Spectrometry: A Case Study on the Plant Ribosome. 	Barley newly synthesized ribosomal proteome: E.coli control samples	E.coli 70S Ribosomes rProteome	Ribosomes are an archetypal ribonucleoprotein assembly. Due to ribosomal evolution and function, r-proteins share specific physicochemical similarities, making the riboproteome particularly suited for tailored proteome profiling methods. Moreover, the structural proteome of ribonucleoprotein assemblies reflects context-dependent functional features. Thus, characterizing the state of riboproteomes provides insights to uncover the context-dependent functionality of r-protein rearrangements, as they relate to what has been termed the ribosomal code, a concept that parallels that of the histone code, in which chromatin rearrangements influence gene expression. Compared to high-resolution ribosomal structures, omics methods lag when it comes to offering customized solutions to close the knowledge gap between structure and function that currently exists in riboproteomes. Purifying the riboproteome and subsequent shot-gun proteomics typically involves protein denaturation and digestion with proteases. The results are relative abundances of r-proteins at the ribosome population level. We have previously shown that, to gain insight into the stoichiometry of individual proteins, it is necessary to measure by proteomics bound r-proteins and normalize their intensities by the sum of r-protein abundances per ribosomal complex, i.e., 40S or 60S subunits. These calculations ensure that individual r-protein stoichiometries represent the fraction of each family/paralog relative to the complex, effectively revealing which r-proteins become substoichiometric in specific physiological scenarios. Here, we present an optimized method to profile the riboproteome of any organism as well as the synthesis rates of r-proteins determined by stable isotope-assisted mass spectrometry. Our method purifies the r-proteins in a reversibly denatured state, which offers the possibility for combined top-down and bottom-up proteomics. Our method offers a milder native denaturation of the r-proteome via a chaotropic GuHCl solution as compared with previous studies that use irreversible denaturation under highly acidic conditions to dissociate rRNA and r-proteins. As such, our method is better suited to conserve post-translational modifications (PTMs). Subsequently, our method carefully considers the amino acid composition of r-proteins to select an appropriate protease for digestion. We avoid non-specific protease cleavage by increasing the pH of our standardized r-proteome dilutions that enter the digestion pipeline and by using a digestion buffer that ensures an optimal pH for a reliable protease digestion process. Finally, we provide the R package ProtSynthesis to study the fractional synthesis rates of r-proteins. The package uses physiological parameters as input to determine peptide or protein fractional synthesis rates. Once the physiological parameters are measured, our equations allow a fair comparison between treatments that alter the biological equilibrium state of the system under study. Our equations correct peptide enrichment using enrichments in soluble amino acids, growth rates, and total protein accumulation. As a means of validation, our pipeline fails to find "false" enrichments in non-labeled samples while also filtering out proteins with multiple unique peptides that have different enrichment values, which are rare in our datasets. These two aspects reflect the accuracy of our tool. Our method offers the possibility of elucidating individual r-protein family/paralog abundances, PTM status, fractional synthesis rates, and dynamic assembly into ribosomal complexes if top-down and bottom-up proteomic approaches are used concomitantly, taking one step further into mapping the native and dynamic status of the r-proteome onto high-resolution ribosome structures. In addition, our method can be used to study the proteomes of all macromolecular assemblies that can be purified, although purification is the limiting step, and the efficacy and accuracy of the proteases may be limited depending on the digestion requirements. Key features * Efficient purification of the ribosomal proteome: streamlined procedure for the specific purification of the ribosomal proteome or complex Ome. * Accurate calculation of fractional synthesis rates: robust method for calculating fractional protein synthesis rates in macromolecular complexes under different physiological steady states. * Holistic ribosome methodology focused on plants: comprehensive approach that provides insights into the ribosomes and translational control of plants, demonstrated using cold acclimation [1]. * Tailored strategies for stable isotope labeling in plants: methodology focusing on materials and labeling considerations specific to free and proteinogenic amino acid analysis [2].
PXD051591	38738212	Integrated proteomic, transcriptomic, and metabolomic profiling reveals that the gibberellin-abscisic acid hub runs flower development in the Chinese orchid Cymbidium sinense. 	cymbidium sinense flower development proteome	cymbidium sinense, flower development	The seasonal flowering Chinese Cymbidium produce an axillary floral meristem and require a dormancy period during cold conditions for flower development. However, the bud activation mechanism remains elusive. This study evaluates the multi-omics across six stages of flower development, along with functional analysis of core genes to decipher the innate mechanism of floral bud initiation and outgrowth in the Chinese orchid Cymbidium sinense. Transcriptome and proteome analyses identified 10 modules with essential roles in floral bud dormancy and activation. Gene clusters in the early stages of flower development were mainly related to flowering time regulation and meristem determination, while the late stages were correlated with hormone signaling pathways. The metabolome identified 69 potential hormones in which gibberellin (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) were the main regulatory hubs, and GA4 and GA53 exhibited a reciprocal loop. Extraneous GA application caused rapid elongation of flower buds and promoted the expression of flower development genes. Contrarily, exogenous ABA application extended the dormancy process and ABA inhibitors induced dormancy release. Moreover, CsAPETALA1 (CsAP1) was identified as the potential target of ABA for floral bud activation. Transformation of CsAP1 in Arabidopsis and its transient overexpression in C. sinense protoplasts not only affected flowering time and floral organ morphogenesis in Arabidopsis but also orchestrated the expression of flowering and hormone regulatory genes. The presence of ABA response elements in the CsAP1 promoter, rapid downregulation of CsAP1 after exogenous ABA application, and the activation of the floral bud after ABA inhibitor treatment suggest that ABA can control bud outgrowth through CsAP1.
PXD051230	38739617	Identification and Quantification of Human Relaxin Proteins by Immunoaffinity-Mass Spectrometry. 	Identification and Quantification of Human Relaxin Proteins by Immunoaffinity-Mass Spectrometry	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, REL1_HUMAN, REL2_HUMAN, RLN1, RLN2, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, immunoaffinity, maternal serum, prostate, relaxin H1, relaxin H2	The human relaxins belong to the Insulin/IGF/Relaxin superfamily of peptide hormones, and their physiological function is primarily associated with reproduction. In this study, we focused on a prostate tissue-specific relaxin RLN1 (REL1_HUMAN protein) and a broader tissue specificity RLN2 (REL2_HUMAN protein). Due to their structural similarity, REL1 and REL2 proteins were collectively named a 'human relaxin protein' in previous studies and were exclusively measured by immunoassays. We hypothesized that the highly selective and sensitive immunoaffinity-selected reaction monitoring (IA-SRM) assays would reveal the identity and abundance of the endogenous REL1 and REL2 in biological samples and facilitate the evaluation of these proteins for diagnostic applications. High levels of RLN1 and RLN2 transcripts were found in prostate and breast cancer cell lines by RT-PCR. However, no endogenous prorelaxin-1 or mature REL1 were detected by IA-SRM in cell lines, seminal plasma, or blood serum. The IA-SRM assay of REL2 demonstrated its undetectable levels (<9.4 pg/mL) in healthy control female and male sera and relatively high levels of REL2 in maternal sera across different gestational weeks (median 331 pg/mL; N = 120). IA-SRM assays uncovered potential cross-reactivity and nonspecific binding for relaxin immunoassays. The developed IA-SRM assays will facilitate the investigation of the physiological and pathological roles of REL1 and REL2 proteins.
PXD043820	38740149	Quantitative proteomics reveals the complex regulatory networks of LTTR-type regulators in pleiotropic functions of Aeromonas hydrophila. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the Complex Regulatory Networks of LTTR-Type Regulators in Pleiotropic Functions of Aeromonas hydrophila	Aeromonas hydrophila, LTTRs, Quantitative proteomics, regulatory network, transcription regulator	LysR-type transcriptional regulators (LTTRs) are ubiquitously distributed and abundant transcriptional regulators in prokaryotes, playing pivotal roles in diverse physiological processes. Nonetheless, despite their prevalence, the intricate functionalities and physiological implications of this protein family remain incompletely elucidated. In this study, we employed a comprehensive approach to deepen our understanding of LTTRs by generating a collection of 20 LTTR gene-deletion strains in Aeromonas hydrophila, accounting for 42.6 % of the predicted total LTTR repertoire, and subjected them to meticulous assessment of their physiological phenotypes. Leveraging quantitative proteomics, we conducted a comparative analysis of protein expression variations between six representative mutants and the wild-type strain. Subsequent bioinformatics analysis unveiled the involvement of these LTTRs in modulating a wide array of biological processes, notably including two-component regulatory systems (TCSs) and intracellular central metabolism. Moreover, employing subsequent microbiological methodologies, we experimentally verified the direct involvement of at least six LTTRs in the regulation of galactose metabolism. Importantly, through ELISA and competitive ELISA assays, we demonstrated the competitive binding capabilities of these LTTRs with the promoter of the alpha-galactosidase gene AHA_1897 and identified that four LTTRs (XapR, YidZ, YeeY, and AHA_1805) do not engage in competitive binding with other LTTRs. Overall, our comprehensive findings not only provide fundamental insights into the regulatory mechanisms governing crucial physiological functions of bacteria through LTTR family proteins but also uncover an intricate and interactive regulatory network mediated by LTTRs.
PXD049406	38740509	Human milk oligosaccharide 2'-fucosyllactose protects against high-fat diet-induced obesity by changing intestinal mucus production, composition and degradation linked to changes in gut microbiota and faecal proteome profiles in mice. 	The human milk oligosaccharide 2'-fucosyllactose protects against high-fat diet induced obesity by changing intestinal mucus production, composition and degradation linked to changes in gut microbiota and fecal proteome profiles in mice	Mucus, diabetes, fecal proteome, gut barrier., gut microbiota, human milk oligosaccharides, obesity	OBJECTIVE: To decipher the mechanisms by which the major human milk oligosaccharide (HMO), 2'-fucosyllactose (2'FL), can affect body weight and fat mass gain on high-fat diet (HFD) feeding in mice. We wanted to elucidate whether 2'FL metabolic effects are linked with changes in intestinal mucus production and secretion, mucin glycosylation and degradation, as well as with the modulation of the gut microbiota, faecal proteome and endocannabinoid (eCB) system. RESULTS: 2'FL supplementation reduced HFD-induced obesity and glucose intolerance. These effects were accompanied by several changes in the intestinal mucus layer, including mucus production and composition, and gene expression of secreted and transmembrane mucins, glycosyltransferases and genes involved in mucus secretion. In addition, 2'FL increased bacterial glycosyl hydrolases involved in mucin glycan degradation. These changes were linked to a significant increase and predominance of bacterial genera Akkermansia and Bacteroides, different faecal proteome profile (with an upregulation of proteins involved in carbon, amino acids and fat metabolism and a downregulation of proteins involved in protein digestion and absorption) and, finally, to changes in the eCB system. We also investigated faecal proteomes from lean and obese humans and found similar changes observed comparing lean and obese mice. CONCLUSION: Our results show that the HMO 2'FL influences host metabolism by modulating the mucus layer, gut microbiota and eCB system and propose the mucus layer as a new potential target for the prevention of obesity and related disorders.
PXD026012	38741019	Polyglutamine-mediated ribotoxicity disrupts proteostasis and stress responses in Huntington's disease. 	Polyglutamine-mediated ribotoxicity disrupts proteostasis and stress responses in Huntington's Disease	Huntingtons disease, aggregation, eIF5A, ribosome collision, ribosome stalling, translation	Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a CAG trinucleotide repeat in the Huntingtin (HTT) gene, encoding a homopolymeric polyglutamine (polyQ) tract. Although mutant HTT (mHTT) protein is known to aggregate, the links between aggregation and neurotoxicity remain unclear. Here we show that both translation and aggregation of wild-type HTT and mHTT are regulated by a stress-responsive upstream open reading frame and that polyQ expansions cause abortive translation termination and release of truncated, aggregation-prone mHTT fragments. Notably, we find that mHTT depletes translation elongation factor eIF5A in brains of symptomatic HD mice and cultured HD cells, leading to pervasive ribosome pausing and collisions. Loss of eIF5A disrupts homeostatic controls and impairs recovery from acute stress. Importantly, drugs that inhibit translation initiation reduce premature termination and mitigate this escalating cascade of ribotoxic stress and dysfunction in HD.
PXD040641	38741020	The subcommissural organ regulates brain development via secreted peptides. 	Subcommissural organ (SCO) contributes to brain development via SCO-secreted peptides	Brain development, Peptide, Subcommissural organ	The subcommissural organ (SCO) is a gland located at the entrance of the aqueduct of Sylvius in the brain. It exists in species as distantly related as amphioxus and humans, but its function is largely unknown. Here, to explore its function, we compared transcriptomes of SCO and non-SCO brain regions and found three genes, Sspo, Car3 and Spdef, that are highly expressed in the SCO. Mouse strains expressing Cre recombinase from endogenous promoter/enhancer elements of these genes were used to genetically ablate SCO cells during embryonic development, resulting in severe hydrocephalus and defects in neuronal migration and development of neuronal axons and dendrites. Unbiased peptidomic analysis revealed enrichment of three SCO-derived peptides, namely, thymosin beta 4, thymosin beta 10 and NP24, and their reintroduction into SCO-ablated brain ventricles substantially rescued developmental defects. Together, these data identify a critical role for the SCO in brain development.
PXD047863	38741158	Defining albumin as a glycoprotein with multiple N-linked glycosylation sites. 	Defining albumin as a glycoprotein with multiple N-linked glycosylation sites	BSA, HSA, glycoproteomics, human serum albumin, microheterogeneity, novel glycosylation site	BACKGROUND: Glycosylation is an enzyme-catalyzed post-translational modification that is distinct from glycation and is present on a majority of plasma proteins. N-glycosylation occurs on asparagine residues predominantly within canonical N-glycosylation motifs (Asn-X-Ser/Thr) although non-canonical N-glycosylation motifs Asn-X-Cys/Val have also been reported. Albumin is the most abundant protein in plasma whose glycation is well-studied in diabetes mellitus. However, albumin has long been considered a non-glycosylated protein due to absence of canonical motifs. Albumin contains two non-canonical N-glycosylation motifs, of which one was recently reported to be glycosylated. METHODS: We enriched abundant serum proteins to investigate their N-linked glycosylation followed by trypsin digestion and glycopeptide enrichment by size-exclusion or mixed-mode anion-exchange chromatography. Glycosylation at canonical as well as non-canonical sites was evaluated by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) of enriched glycopeptides. Deglycosylation analysis was performed to confirm N-linked glycosylation at non-canonical sites. Albumin-derived glycopeptides were fragmented by MS3 to confirm attached glycans. Parallel reaction monitoring was carried out on twenty additional samples to validate these findings. Bovine and rabbit albumin-derived glycopeptides were similarly analyzed by LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: Human albumin is N-glycosylated at two non-canonical sites, Asn(68) and Asn(123). N-glycopeptides were detected at both sites bearing four complex sialylated glycans and validated by MS3-based fragmentation and deglycosylation studies. Targeted mass spectrometry confirmed glycosylation in twenty additional donor samples. Finally, the highly conserved Asn(123) in bovine and rabbit serum albumin was also found to be glycosylated. CONCLUSIONS: Albumin is a glycoprotein with conserved N-linked glycosylation sites that could have potential clinical applications.
PXD048384	38741259	Cysteine oxidation as a regulatory mechanism of Arabidopsis plastidial NAD-dependent malate dehydrogenase. 	Cysteine oxidation as a regulatory mechanism of Arabidopsis plastidial NAD-dependent malate dehydrogenase	cysteine oxidation, malate dehydrogenase, plastid, posttranslational regulation, redox	Malate dehydrogenases (MDHs) catalyze a reversible NAD(P)-dependent-oxidoreductase reaction that plays an important role in central metabolism and redox homeostasis of plant cells. Recent studies suggest a moonlighting function of plastidial NAD-dependent MDH (plNAD-MDH; EC 1.1.1.37) in plastid biogenesis, independent of its enzyme activity. In this study, redox effects on activity and conformation of recombinant plNAD-MDH from Arabidopsis thaliana were investigated. We show that reduced plNAD-MDH is active while it is inhibited upon oxidation. Interestingly, the presence of its cofactors NAD(+) and NADH could prevent oxidative inhibition of plNAD-MDH. In addition, a conformational change upon oxidation could be observed via non-reducing SDS-PAGE. Both effects, its inhibition and conformational change, were reversible by re-reduction. Further investigation of single cysteine substitutions and mass spectrometry revealed that oxidation of plNAD-MDH leads to oxidation of all four cysteine residues. However, cysteine oxidation of C129 leads to inhibition of plNAD-MDH activity and oxidation of C147 induces its conformational change. In contrast, oxidation of C190 and C333 does not affect plNAD-MDH activity or structure. Our results demonstrate that plNAD-MDH activity can be reversibly inhibited, but not inactivated, by cysteine oxidation and might be co-regulated by the availability of its cofactors in vivo.
PXD046076	38741276	GlmS plays a key role in the virulence factor expression and biofilm formation ability of Staphylococcus aureus promoted by advanced glycation end products. 	GlmS plays a key role in the virulence and biofilm formation ability of Staphylococcus aureus promoted by advanced glycation end products	GlmS-sigB regulatory axis, Staphylococcus aureus, advanced glycation end products, biofilm formation	Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is well known for its biofilm formation ability and is responsible for serious, chronic refractory infections worldwide. We previously demonstrated that advanced glycation end products (AGEs), a hallmark of chronic hyperglycaemia in diabetic tissues, enhanced biofilm formation by promoting eDNA release via sigB upregulation in S. aureus, contributing to the high morbidity and mortality of patients presenting a diabetic foot ulcer infection. However, the exact regulatory network has not been completely described. Here, we used pull-down assay and LC-MS/MS to identify the GlmS as a candidate regulator of sigB in S. aureus stimulated by AGEs. Dual-luciferase assays and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) revealed that GlmS directly upregulated the transcriptional activity of sigB. We constructed NCTC 8325 incrementglmS for further validation. qRT-PCR analysis revealed that AGEs promoted both glmS and sigB expression in the NCTC 8325 strain but had no effect on NCTC 8325 incrementglmS. NCTC 8325 incrementglmS showed a significant attenuation in biofilm formation and virulence factor expression, accompanied by a decrease in sigB expression, even under AGE stimulation. All of the changes, including pigment deficiency, decreased haemolysis ability, downregulation of hla and hld expression, and less and sparser biofilms, indicated that sigB and biofilm formation ability no longer responded to AGEs in NCTC 8325 incrementglmS. Our data extend the understanding of GlmS in the global regulatory network of S. aureus and demonstrate a new mechanism by which AGEs can upregulate GlmS, which directly regulates sigB and plays a significant role in mediating biofilm formation and virulence factor expression.
PXD044110	38744818	dsRNAi-mediated silencing of PIAS2beta specifically kills anaplastic carcinomas by mitotic catastrophe. 	PIAS2b dsRNAi repression kills by mitotic catastrophe anaplastic thyroid and non-thyroid carcinomas, but not normal thyroid or differentiated carcinomas	Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer, E3 SUMO ligase, PIAS2, SUMO-affinity columna, immunoprecipitation	The E3 SUMO ligase PIAS2 is expressed at high levels in differentiated papillary thyroid carcinomas but at low levels in anaplastic thyroid carcinomas (ATC), an undifferentiated cancer with high mortality. We show here that depletion of the PIAS2 beta isoform with a transcribed double-stranded RNA-directed RNA interference (PIAS2b-dsRNAi) specifically inhibits growth of ATC cell lines and patient primary cultures in vitro and of orthotopic patient-derived xenografts (oPDX) in vivo. Critically, PIAS2b-dsRNAi does not affect growth of normal or non-anaplastic thyroid tumor cultures (differentiated carcinoma, benign lesions) or cell lines. PIAS2b-dsRNAi also has an anti-cancer effect on other anaplastic human cancers (pancreas, lung, and gastric). Mechanistically, PIAS2b is required for proper mitotic spindle and centrosome assembly, and it is a dosage-sensitive protein in ATC. PIAS2b depletion promotes mitotic catastrophe at prophase. High-throughput proteomics reveals the proteasome (PSMC5) and spindle cytoskeleton (TUBB3) to be direct targets of PIAS2b SUMOylation at mitotic initiation. These results identify PIAS2b-dsRNAi as a promising therapy for ATC and other aggressive anaplastic carcinomas.
PXD041626	38744835	Drosophila Evi5 is a critical regulator of intracellular iron transport via transferrin and ferritin interactions. 	Identifying potential interacting proteins of Drosophila Evi5	Drosophila Evi5	Vesicular transport is essential for delivering cargo to intracellular destinations. Evi5 is a Rab11-GTPase-activating protein involved in endosome recycling. In humans, Evi5 is a high-risk locus for multiple sclerosis, a debilitating disease that also presents with excess iron in the CNS. In insects, the prothoracic gland (PG) requires entry of extracellular iron to synthesize steroidogenic enzyme cofactors. The mechanism of peripheral iron uptake in insect cells remains controversial. We show that Evi5-depletion in the Drosophila PG affected vesicle morphology and density, blocked endosome recycling and impaired trafficking of transferrin-1, thus disrupting heme synthesis due to reduced cellular iron concentrations. We show that ferritin delivers iron to the PG as well, and interacts physically with Evi5. Further, ferritin-injection rescued developmental delays associated with Evi5-depletion. To summarize, our findings show that Evi5 is critical for intracellular iron trafficking via transferrin-1 and ferritin, and implicate altered iron homeostasis in the etiology of multiple sclerosis.
PXD048760	38748792	Oncogene EVI1 drives acute myeloid leukemia via a targetable interaction with CTBP2. 	Oncogene EVI1 Drives Acute Myeloid Leukemia Via a Targetable Interaction  with CTBP2	Acute Myeloid Leukemia, CTBP2, EVI1	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) driven by the activation of EVI1 due to chromosome 3q26/MECOM rearrangements is incurable. Because transcription factors such as EVI1 are notoriously hard to target, insight into the mechanism by which EVI1 drives myeloid transformation could provide alternative avenues for therapy. Applying protein folding predictions combined with proteomics technologies, we demonstrate that interaction of EVI1 with CTBP1 and CTBP2 via a single PLDLS motif is indispensable for leukemic transformation. A 4x PLDLS repeat construct outcompetes binding of EVI1 to CTBP1 and CTBP2 and inhibits proliferation of 3q26/MECOM rearranged AML in vitro and in xenotransplant models. This proof-of-concept study opens the possibility to target one of the most incurable forms of AML with specific EVI1-CTBP inhibitors. This has important implications for other tumor types with aberrant expression of EVI1 and for cancers transformed by different CTBP-dependent oncogenic transcription factors.
PXD051356	38750068	Proteomics profiling of the honeybee parasite Tropilaelaps mercedesae across post-embryonic development. 	Proteomics profiling of the honeybee parasite Tropilaelpas mercedesae across post-embryonic development	Developmental biology, Honey bee, Tropilaelaps mercedesae	Tropilaelaps mercedesae, an ectoparasitic mite of honeybees, is currently a severe health risk to Apis mellifera colonies in Asia and a potential threat to the global apiculture industry. However, our understanding of the physiological and developmental regulation of this pest remains significantly insufficient. Using ultra-high resolution mass spectrometry, we provide the first comprehensive proteomic profile of T. mercedesae spanning its entire post-embryonic ontogeny, including protonymphs, deutonymphs, mature adults, and reproductive mites. Consequently, a total of 4,422 T. mercedesae proteins were identified, of which 2,189 proteins were significantly differentially expressed (FDR < 0.05) throughout development and maturation. Our proteomic data provide an important resource for understanding the biology of T. mercedesae, and will contribute to further research and effective control of this devastating honeybee pest.
PXD043603	38750080	TRIM25 predominately associates with anti-viral stress granules. 	Proximity labeling proteins differences between TRIM25 and G3BP1 interactions or not, and Proximity labeling proteins differences between G3BP1 and TRIM25 in the presence or absence of poly(I:C) stimulation	BioID, BirA*, G3BP1, TRIM25, poly(I:C)	Stress granules (SGs) are induced by various environmental stressors, resulting in their compositional and functional heterogeneity. SGs play a crucial role in the antiviral process, owing to their potent translational repressive effects and ability to trigger signal transduction; however, it is poorly understood how these antiviral SGs differ from SGs induced by other environmental stressors. Here we identify that TRIM25, a known driver of the ubiquitination-dependent antiviral innate immune response, is a potent and critical marker of the antiviral SGs. TRIM25 undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) and co-condenses with the SG core protein G3BP1 in a dsRNA-dependent manner. The co-condensation of TRIM25 and G3BP1 results in a significant enhancement of TRIM25's ubiquitination activity towards multiple antiviral proteins, which are mainly located in SGs. This co-condensation is critical in activating the RIG-I signaling pathway, thus restraining RNA virus infection. Our studies provide a conceptual framework for better understanding the heterogeneity of stress granule components and their response to distinct environmental stressors.
PXD016530	38750129	Jnk1 and downstream signalling hubs regulate anxiety-like behaviours in a zebrafish larvae phenotypic screen. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of WT and KO JNK1 mice	brain, phosphoproteomics, shotgun	Current treatments for anxiety and depression show limited efficacy in many patients, indicating the need for further research into the underlying mechanisms. JNK1 has been shown to regulate anxiety- and depressive-like behaviours in mice, however the effectors downstream of JNK1 are not known. Here we compare the phosphoproteomes from wild-type and Jnk1-/- mouse brains and identify JNK1-regulated signalling hubs. We next employ a zebrafish (Danio rerio) larvae behavioural assay to identify an antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like (AA) phenotype based on 2759 measured stereotypic responses to clinically proven antidepressant and anxiolytic (AA) drugs. Employing machine learning, we classify an AA phenotype from extracted features measured during and after a startle battery in fish exposed to AA drugs. Using this classifier, we demonstrate that structurally independent JNK inhibitors replicate the AA phenotype with high accuracy, consistent with findings in mice. Furthermore, pharmacological targeting of JNK1-regulated signalling hubs identifies AKT, GSK-3, 14-3-3 zeta/epsilon and PKCepsilon as downstream hubs that phenocopy clinically proven AA drugs. This study identifies AKT and related signalling molecules as mediators of JNK1-regulated antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like behaviours. Moreover, the assay shows promise for early phase screening of compounds with anti-stress-axis properties and for mode of action analysis.
PXD037364	38750435	Breaking the Mucin Barrier: A New Affinity Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry Approach to Unveil Potential Cell Markers and Pathways Altered in Pseudomyxoma Peritonei. 	Breaking the mucin barrier: a new affinity chromatography-mass spectrometry approach to unveil potential cell markers and pathways altered in Pseudomyxoma peritonei	Differential expresion, Mucin, Pseudomyxoma peritonei, SWATH	BACKGROUND: Pseudomyxoma peritonei (PMP) is a rare peritoneal mucinous carcinomatosis with largely unknown underlying molecular mechanisms. Cytoreductive surgery combined with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy is the only therapeutic option; however, despite its use, recurrence with a fatal outcome is common. The lack of molecular characterisation of PMP and other mucinous tumours is mainly due to the physicochemical properties of mucin. RESULTS: This manuscript describes the first protocol capable of breaking the mucin barrier and isolating proteins from mucinous tumours. Briefly, mucinous tumour samples were homogenised and subjected to liquid chromatography using two specific columns to reduce mainly glycoproteins, albumins and immunoglobulin G. The protein fractions were then subjected to mass spectrometry analysis and the proteomic profile obtained was analysed using various bioinformatic tools. Thus, we present here the first proteome analysed in PMP and identified a distinct mucin isoform profile in soft compared to hard mucin tumour tissues as well as key biological processes/pathways altered in mucinous tumours. Importantly, this protocol also allowed us to identify MUC13 as a potential tumour cell marker in PMP. CONCLUSIONS: In sum, our results demonstrate that this protein isolation protocol from mucin will have a high impact, allowing the oncology research community to more rapidly advance in the knowledge of PMP and other mucinous neoplasms, as well as develop new and effective therapeutic strategies.
PXD037308	38750478	iTRAQ-based proteomic study on monocyte cell model discovered an association of LAMP2 downregulation with HIV-1 latency. 	iTRAQ-based proteomic study discovered LAMP2 to be a novel biomarker related to HIV-1 latency	HIV latency, LAMP2, iTRAQ, plasma membrane	BACKGROUND: Patients with immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection are challenging to be cured completely due to the existence of HIV-1 latency reservoirs. However, the knowledge of the mechanisms and biomarkers associated with HIV-1 latency is limited. Therefore, identifying proteins related to HIV-1 latency could provide new insights into the underlying mechanisms of HIV-1 latency, and ultimately contribute to the eradication of HIV reservoirs. METHODS: An Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantification (iTRAQ)-labeled subcellular proteomic study was performed on an HIV-1 latently infected cell model (U1, a HIV-1-integrated U937 cell line) and its control (U937). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were analyzed using STRING-DB. Selected DEPs were further evaluated by western blotting and multiple reaction monitoring technology in both cell model and patient-derived cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4)(+) T cells. Finally, we investigated the relationship between a specific DEP lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 2 (LAMP2) and HIV-1 reactivation by panobinostat or lysosome regulation by a lysosomotropic agent hydroxychloroquine in U1 and U937 cells. RESULTS: In total, 110 DEPs were identified in U1 cells comparing to U937 control cells. Bioinformatics analysis suggested associations of the altered proteins with the immune response and endosomal/lysosomal pathway. LAMP2, leukocyte surface antigen CD47, CD55, and ITGA6 were downregulated in HIV-1 latent cells. Downregulated LAMP2 was further confirmed in resting CD4(+) T cells from patients with latent HIV-1 infection. Furthermore, both HIV-1 reactivation by panobinostat and stimulation with hydroxychloroquine upregulated LAMP2 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated the involvement of the endosomal/lysosomal pathway in HIV-1 latency in macrophage cell model. The down-modulation of LAMP2 was associated with HIV latency, and the restoration of LAMP2 expression accompanied the transition of viral latency to active infection. This study provides new insights into the mechanism of HIV-1 latency and potential strategies for eradicating HIV-1 reservoirs by targeting LAMP2 expression.
PXD045706	38750698	Combined genetic-pharmacologic inactivation of tightly linked ADAMTS proteases in temporally specific windows uncovers distinct roles for versican proteolysis and glypican-6 in cardiac development. 	Combined genetic-pharmacologic inactivation of tightly linked ADAMTS proteases uncovers a requirement for versican and glypican-6 proteolysis in cardiac development.	Cardiac jelly, Tetralogy of Fallot, proteases, proteoglycan, trabeculation	Extracellular matrix remodeling mechanisms are understudied in cardiac development and congenital heart defects. We show that matrix-degrading metalloproteases ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS5, are extensively co-expressed during mouse cardiac development. The mouse mutants of each gene have mild cardiac anomalies, however, their combined genetic inactivation to elicit cooperative roles is precluded by tight gene linkage. Therefore, we coupled Adamts1 inactivation with pharmacologic ADAMTS5 blockade to uncover stage-specific cooperative roles and investigated their potential substrates in mouse cardiac development. ADAMTS5 blockade was achieved in Adamts1 null mouse embryos using an activity-blocking monoclonal antibody during distinct developmental windows spanning myocardial compaction or cardiac septation and outflow tract rotation. Synchrotron imaging, RNA in situ hybridization, immunofluorescence microscopy and electron microscopy were used to determine the impact on cardiac development and compared to Gpc6 and ADAMTS-cleavage resistant versican mutants. Mass spectrometry-based N-terminomics was used to seek relevant substrates. Combined inactivation of ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS5 prior to 12.5 days of gestation led to dramatic accumulation of versican-rich cardiac jelly and inhibited formation of compact and trabecular myocardium, which was also observed in mice with ADAMTS cleavage-resistant versican. Combined inactivation after 12.5 days impaired outflow tract development and ventricular septal closure, generating a tetralogy of Fallot-like defect. N-terminomics of combined ADAMTS knockout and control hearts identified a cleaved glypican-6 peptide only in the controls. ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS5 expression in cells was associated with specific glypican-6 cleavages. Paradoxically, combined ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS5 inactivation reduced cardiac glypican-6 and outflow tract Gpc6 transcription. Notably, Gpc6(-/-) hearts demonstrated similar rotational defects as combined ADAMTS inactivated hearts and both had reduced hedgehog signaling. Thus, versican proteolysis in cardiac jelly at the canonical Glu(441)-Ala(442) site is cooperatively mediated by ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS5 and required for proper ventricular cardiomyogenesis, whereas, reduced glypican-6 after combined ADAMTS inactivation impairs hedgehog signaling, leading to outflow tract malrotation.
PXD042452	38752989	IL-24 promotes atopic dermatitis-like inflammation through driving MRSA-induced allergic responses. 	mouse primary keratinocytes LC-MS	keratinocytes	Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a prevalent inflammatory skin disorder in which patients experience recurrent eczematous lesions and intense itching. The colonization of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is correlated with the severity of the disease, but its role in AD development remains elusive. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we uncovered that keratinocytes activate a distinct immune response characterized by induction of Il24 when exposed to methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA). Further experiments using animal models showed that the administration of recombinant IL-24 protein worsened AD-like pathology. Genetic ablation of Il24 or the receptor Il20rb in keratinocytes alleviated allergic inflammation and atopic march. Mechanistically, IL-24 acted through its heterodimeric receptors on keratinocytes and augmented the production of IL-33, which in turn aggravated type 2 immunity and AD-like skin conditions. Overall, these findings establish IL-24 as a critical factor for onset and progression of AD and a compelling therapeutic target.
PXD051388	38753486	linc-ADAIN, a human adipose lincRNA, regulates adipogenesis by modulating KLF5 and IL-8 mRNA stability. 	Linc-ADAIN Pulldown assay in Human Adipocytes.	Linc-ADAIN, adipocytes, linc-RNA protein interaction, lincRNA, pulldown assay	Adipose tissue remodeling and dysfunction, characterized by elevated inflammation and insulin resistance, play a central role in obesity-related development of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and cardiovascular diseases. Long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) are important regulators of cellular functions. Here, we describe the functions of linc-ADAIN (adipose anti-inflammatory), an adipose lincRNA that is downregulated in white adipose tissue of obese humans. We demonstrate that linc-ADAIN knockdown (KD) increases KLF5 and interleukin-8 (IL-8) mRNA stability and translation by interacting with IGF2BP2. Upregulation of KLF5 and IL-8, via linc-ADAIN KD, leads to an enhanced adipogenic program and adipose tissue inflammation, mirroring the obese state, in vitro and in vivo. KD of linc-ADAIN in human adipose stromal cell (ASC) hTERT adipocytes implanted into mice increases adipocyte size and macrophage infiltration compared to implanted control adipocytes, mimicking hallmark features of obesity-induced adipose tissue remodeling. linc-ADAIN is an anti-inflammatory lincRNA that limits adipose tissue expansion and lipid storage.
PXD047334	38753846	Leishmania Ribosomal Protein (RP) paralogous genes compensate each other's expression maintaining protein native levels. 	Leishmania Ribosomal Protein (RP) paralogous genes compensate each other's expression maintaining protein native levels	Ribosomal proteins, compensatory mechanism., duplicated genes, gene expression	In the protozoan parasite Leishmania, most genes encoding for ribosomal proteins (RPs) are present as two or more copies in the genome. However, their untranslated regions (UTRs) are predominantly divergent and might be associated with a distinct regulation of the expression of paralogous genes. Herein, we investigated the expression profiles of two RPs (S16 and L13a) encoded by duplicated genes in Leishmania major. The genes encoding for the S16 protein possess identical coding sequences (CDSs) and divergent UTRs, whereas the CDSs of L13a diverge by two amino acids and by their UTRs. Using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing, we generated knockout (Delta) and endogenously tagged transfectants for each paralog of L13a and S16 genes. Combining tagged and Delta cell lines we found evidence of differential expression of both RPS16 and RPL13a isoforms throughout parasite development, with one isoform consistently more abundant than its respective copy. In addition, compensatory expression was observed for each paralog upon deletion of the corresponding isoform, suggesting functional conservation between these proteins. This differential expression pattern relates to post-translational processes, given compensation occurs at the level of the protein, with no alterations detected at transcript level. Ribosomal profiles for RPL13a indicate a standard behavior for these paralogues suggestive of interaction with heavy RNA-protein complexes, as already reported for other RPs in trypanosomatids. We identified paralog-specific bound to their 3'UTRs which may be influential in regulating paralog expression. In support, we identified conserved cis-elements within the 3'UTRs of RPS16 and RPL13a; cis-elements exclusive to the UTR of the more abundant paralog or to the less abundant ones were identified.
PXD041309	38754429	Deciphering lineage specification during early embryogenesis in mouse gastruloids using multilayered proteomics. 	Deciphering lineage specification during early embryogenesis using multi-layered proteomics	Gastruloids, Zeb2, dTAG system, developmental biology, enhancers, interaction proteomics, somitoids, transcription factors	Gastrulation is a critical stage in embryonic development during which the germ layers are established. Advances in sequencing technologies led to the identification of gene regulatory programs that control the emergence of the germ layers and their derivatives. However, proteome-based studies of early mammalian development are scarce. To overcome this, we utilized gastruloids and a multilayered mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach to investigate the global dynamics of (phospho) protein expression during gastruloid differentiation. Our findings revealed many proteins with temporal expression and unique expression profiles for each germ layer, which we also validated using single-cell proteomics technology. Additionally, we profiled enhancer interaction landscapes using P300 proximity labeling, which revealed numerous gastruloid-specific transcription factors and chromatin remodelers. Subsequent degron-based perturbations combined with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) identified a critical role for ZEB2 in mouse and human somitogenesis. Overall, this study provides a rich resource for developmental and synthetic biology communities endeavoring to understand mammalian embryogenesis.
PXD050604	38755134	Ser/Leu-swapped cell-free translation system constructed with natural/in vitro transcribed-hybrid tRNA set. 	Ser/Leu-swapped cell-free translation system constructed with natural/in vitro transcribed-hybrid tRNA set	Cell-free translation system, peptides, ribosomal mistranslation, tRNAs	The Ser/Leu-swapped genetic code can act as a genetic firewall, mitigating biohazard risks arising from horizontal gene transfer in genetically modified organisms. Our prior work demonstrated the orthogonality of this swapped code to the standard genetic code using a cell-free translation system comprised of 21 in vitro transcribed tRNAs. In this study, to advance this system for protein engineering, we introduce a natural/in vitro transcribed-hybrid tRNA set. This set combines natural tRNAs from Escherichia coli (excluding Ser, Leu, and Tyr) and in vitro transcribed tRNAs, encompassing anticodon-swapped tRNA(Ser)GAG and tRNA(Leu)GGA. This approach reduces the number of in vitro transcribed tRNAs required from 21 to only 4. In this optimized system, the production of a model protein, superfolder green fluorescent protein, increases to 3.5-fold. With this hybrid tRNA set, the Ser/Leu-swapped cell-free translation system will stand as a potent tool for protein production with reduced biohazard concerns in future biological endeavors.
PXD052405	38755257	Receptor-mediated cargo hitchhiking on bulk autophagy. 	Cargo analysis of autophagic bodies in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Autophagy yeast	While the molecular mechanism of autophagy is well studied, the cargoes delivered by autophagy remain incompletely characterized. To examine the selectivity of autophagy cargo, we conducted proteomics on isolated yeast autophagic bodies, which are intermediate structures in the autophagy process. We identify a protein, Hab1, that is highly preferentially delivered to vacuoles. The N-terminal 42 amino acid region of Hab1 contains an amphipathic helix and an Atg8-family interacting motif, both of which are necessary and sufficient for the preferential delivery of Hab1 by autophagy. We find that fusion of this region with a cytosolic protein results in preferential delivery of this protein to the vacuole. Furthermore, attachment of this region to an organelle allows for autophagic delivery in a manner independent of canonical autophagy receptor or scaffold proteins. We propose a novel mode of selective autophagy in which a receptor, in this case Hab1, binds directly to forming isolation membranes during bulk autophagy.
PXD045346	38755661	RICTOR/mTORC2 downregulation in BRAF(V600E) melanoma cells promotes resistance to BRAF/MEK inhibition. 	Rictor/mTORC2 downregulation in BRAFV600E melanoma cells promotes resistance to BRAF/MEK inhibition	BRAF, BRAFV600E, Rictor, mTORC2, melanoma	BACKGROUND: The main drawback of BRAF/MEK inhibitors (BRAF/MEKi)-based targeted therapy in the management of BRAF-mutated cutaneous metastatic melanoma (MM) is the development of therapeutic resistance. We aimed to assess in this context the role of mTORC2, a signaling complex defined by the presence of the essential RICTOR subunit, regarded as an oncogenic driver in several tumor types, including MM. METHODS: After analyzing The Cancer Genome Atlas MM patients' database to explore both overall survival and molecular signatures as a function of intra-tumor RICTOR levels, we investigated the effects of RICTOR downregulation in BRAF(V600E) MM cell lines on their response to BRAF/MEKi. We performed proteomic screening to identify proteins modulated by changes in RICTOR expression, and Seahorse analysis to evaluate the effects of RICTOR depletion on mitochondrial respiration. The combination of BRAFi with drugs targeting proteins and processes emerged in the proteomic screening was carried out on RICTOR-deficient cells in vitro and in a xenograft setting in vivo. RESULTS: Low RICTOR levels in BRAF-mutated MM correlate with a worse clinical outcome. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis of low-RICTOR tumors display gene signatures suggestive of activation of the mitochondrial Electron Transport Chain (ETC) energy production. RICTOR-deficient BRAF(V600E) cells are intrinsically tolerant to BRAF/MEKi and anticipate the onset of resistance to BRAFi upon prolonged drug exposure. Moreover, in drug-naive cells we observed a decline in RICTOR expression shortly after BRAFi exposure. In RICTOR-depleted cells, both mitochondrial respiration and expression of nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) are enhanced, and their pharmacological inhibition restores sensitivity to BRAFi. CONCLUSIONS: Our work unveils an unforeseen tumor-suppressing role for mTORC2 in the early adaptation phase of BRAF(V600E) melanoma cells to targeted therapy and identifies the NAMPT-ETC axis as a potential therapeutic vulnerability of low RICTOR tumors. Importantly, our findings indicate that the evaluation of intra-tumor RICTOR levels has a prognostic value in metastatic melanoma and may help to guide therapeutic strategies in a personalized manner.
PXD047974	38755675	Integrated proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and N-glycoproteomic analyses of small extracellular vesicles from C2C12 myoblasts identify specific PTM patterns in ligand-receptor interactions. 	Proteomic, phosphoproteomic and N-glycoproteomic analysis of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) from C2C12 myoblasts	N-glycoproteomics, Phosphoproteomics, small extracellular vesicles	Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) are important mediators of intercellular communication by transferring of functional components (proteins, RNAs, and lipids) to recipient cells. Some PTMs, including phosphorylation and N-glycosylation, have been reported to play important role in EV biology, such as biogenesis, protein sorting and uptake of sEVs. MS-based proteomic technology has been applied to identify proteins and PTM modifications in sEVs. Previous proteomic studies of sEVs from C2C12 myoblasts, an important skeletal muscle cell line, focused on identification of proteins, but no PTM information on sEVs proteins is available.In this study, we systematically analyzed the proteome, phosphoproteome, and N-glycoproteome of sEVs from C2C12 myoblasts with LC-MS/MS. In-depth analyses of the three proteomic datasets revealed that the three proteomes identified different catalogues of proteins, and PTMomic analysis could expand the identification of cargos in sEVs. At the proteomic level, a high percentage of membrane proteins, especially tetraspanins, was identified. The sEVs-derived phosphoproteome had a remarkably high level of tyrosine-phosphorylated sites. The tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins might be involved with EPH-Ephrin signaling pathway. At the level of N-glycoproteomics, several glycoforms, such as complex N-linked glycans and sialic acids on glycans, were enriched in sEVs. Retrieving of the ligand-receptor interaction in sEVs revealed that extracellular matrix (ECM) and cell adhesion molecule (CAM) represented the most abundant ligand-receptor pairs in sEVs. Mapping the PTM information on the ligands and receptors revealed that N-glycosylation mainly occurred on ECM and CAM proteins, while phosphorylation occurred on different categories of receptors and ligands. A comprehensive PTM map of ECM-receptor interaction and their components is also provided.In summary, we conducted a comprehensive proteomic and PTMomic analysis of sEVs of C2C12 myoblasts. Integrated proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and N-glycoproteomic analysis of sEVs might provide some insights about their specific uptake mechanism.
PXD048835	38756231	Unraveling the adaptive strategies of Mycoplasma hominis through proteogenomic profiling of clinical isolates. 	Proteomic profiling of clinical isolates and reference strain of H-34 Mycoplasma hominis to study phenotypic adaptation	Mycoplasma hominis, clinical isolates, laboratory strain H-34	Introduction: Mycoplasma hominis (M. hominis) belongs to the class Mollicutes, characterized by a very small genome size, reduction of metabolic pathways, including transcription factors, and the absence of a cell wall. Despite this, they adapt well not only to specific niches within the host organism but can also spread throughout the body, colonizing various organs and tissues. The adaptation mechanisms of M. hominis, as well as their regulatory pathways, are poorly understood. It is known that, when adapting to adverse conditions, Mycoplasmas can undergo phenotypic switches that may persist for several generations. Methods: To investigate the adaptive properties of M. hominis related to survival in the host, we conducted a comparative phenotypic and proteogenomic analysis of eight clinical isolates of M. hominis obtained from patients with urogenital infections and the laboratory strain H-34. Results: We have shown that clinical isolates differ in phenotypic features from the laboratory strain, form biofilms more effectively and show resistance to ofloxacin. The comparative proteogenomic analysis revealed that, unlike the laboratory strain, the clinical isolates possess several features related to stress survival: they switch carbon metabolism, activating the energetically least advantageous pathway of nucleoside utilization, which allows slowing down cellular processes and transitioning to a starvation state; they reconfigure the repertoire of membrane proteins; they have integrative conjugative elements in their genomes, which are key mediators of horizontal gene transfer. The upregulation of the methylating subunit of the restriction-modification (RM) system type I and the additional components of RM systems found in clinical isolates suggest that DNA methylation may play a role in regulating the adaptation mechanisms of M. hominis in the host organism. It has been shown that based on the proteogenomic profile, namely the genome sequence, protein content, composition of the RM systems and additional subunits HsdM, HsdS and HsdR, composition and number of transposable elements, as well as the sequence of the main variable antigen Vaa, we can divide clinical isolates into two phenotypes: typical colonies (TC), which have a high growth rate, and atypical (aTC) mini-colonies, which have a slow growth rate and exhibit properties similar to persisters. Discussion: We believe that the key mechanism of adaptation of M. hominis in the host is phenotypic restructuring, leading to a slowing down cellular processes and the formation of small atypical colonies. This is due to a switch in carbon metabolism and activation the pathway of nucleoside utilization. We hypothesize that DNA methylation may play a role in regulating this switch.
PXD050084	38758807	LRIG1 engages ligand VISTA and impairs tumor-specific CD8(+) T cell responses. 	LRIG1 engages ligand VISTA and impairs tumor-specific CD8+ T cell responses	Cancer, bottom up proteomics, proximity labelling	Immune checkpoint blockade is a promising approach to activate antitumor immunity and improve the survival of patients with cancer. V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA) is an immune checkpoint target; however, the downstream signaling mechanisms are elusive. Here, we identify leucine-rich repeats and immunoglobulin-like domains 1 (LRIG1) as a VISTA binding partner, which acts as an inhibitory receptor by engaging VISTA and suppressing T cell receptor signaling pathways. Mice with T cell-specific LRIG1 deletion developed superior antitumor responses because of expansion of tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) with increased effector function and survival. Sustained tumor control was associated with a reduction of quiescent CTLs (TCF1(+) CD62L(hi) PD-1(low)) and a reciprocal increase in progenitor and memory-like CTLs (TCF1(+) PD-1(+)). In patients with melanoma, elevated LRIG1 expression on tumor-infiltrating CD8(+) CTLs correlated with resistance to immunotherapies. These results delineate the role of LRIG1 as an inhibitory immune checkpoint receptor and propose a rationale for targeting the VISTA/LRIG1 axis for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD045865	38759377	Extracellular signals induce dynamic ER remodeling through alphaTAT1-dependent microtubule acetylation. 	Extracellular Signals Induce Dynamic ER Remodeling through TAT1-dependent Microtubule Acetylation	BOK, Endoplasmic Reticulum, Microtubules, TAK1, aTAT1	Dynamic changes in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology are central to maintaining cellular homeostasis. Microtubules (MT) facilitate the continuous remodeling of the ER network into sheets and tubules by coordinating with many ER-shaping protein complexes, although how this process is controlled by extracellular signals remains unknown. Here we report that TAK1, a kinase responsive to various growth factors and cytokines including TGF-beta and TNF-alpha, triggers ER tubulation by activating alphaTAT1, an MT-acetylating enzyme that enhances ER-sliding. We show that this TAK1/alphaTAT1-dependent ER remodeling promotes cell survival by actively downregulating BOK, an ER membrane-associated proapoptotic effector. While BOK is normally protected from degradation when complexed with IP3R, it is rapidly degraded upon their dissociation during the ER sheets-to-tubules conversion. These findings demonstrate a distinct mechanism of ligand-induced ER remodeling and suggest that the TAK1/alphaTAT1 pathway may be a key target in ER stress and dysfunction.
PXD043612	38759626	Arginine deprivation enriches lung cancer proteomes with cysteine by inducing arginine-to-cysteine substitutants. 	Arginine to Cysteine substitutants in lung cancer enhance survival to chemotherapy	KEAP1, arginine, lung cancer, substituants, tryptophan	Many types of human cancers suppress the expression of argininosuccinate synthase 1 (ASS1), a rate-limiting enzyme for arginine production. Although dependency on exogenous arginine can be harnessed by arginine-deprivation therapies, the impact of ASS1 suppression on the quality of the tumor proteome is unknown. We therefore interrogated proteomes of cancer patients for arginine codon reassignments (substitutants) and surprisingly identified a strong enrichment for cysteine (R>C) in lung tumors specifically. Most R>C events did not coincide with genetically encoded R>C mutations but were likely products of tRNA misalignments. The expression of R>C substitutants was highly associated with oncogenic kelch-like epichlorohydrin (ECH)-associated protein 1 (KEAP1)-pathway mutations and suppressed by intact-KEAP1 in KEAP1-mutated cancer cells. Finally, functional interrogation indicated a key role for R>C substitutants in cell survival to cisplatin, suggesting that regulatory codon reassignments endow cancer cells with more resilience to stress. Thus, we present a mechanism for enriching lung cancer proteomes with cysteines that may affect therapeutic decisions.
PXD050571	38760576	DDX5 inhibits hyaline cartilage fibrosis and degradation in osteoarthritis via alternative splicing and G-quadruplex unwinding. 	DDX5 inhibits hyaline cartilage fibrosis and degradation in osteoarthritis via alternative splicing and G-quadruplex unwinding	COL1, COL2, DDX5, G-quadruplex, alternative splicing, osteoarthritis	Hyaline cartilage fibrosis is typically considered an end-stage pathology of osteoarthritis (OA), which results in changes to the extracellular matrix. However, the mechanism behind this is largely unclear. Here, we found that the RNA helicase DDX5 was dramatically downregulated during the progression of OA. DDX5 deficiency increased fibrosis phenotype by upregulating COL1 expression and downregulating COL2 expression. In addition, loss of DDX5 aggravated cartilage degradation by inducing the production of cartilage-degrading enzymes. Chondrocyte-specific deletion of Ddx5 led to more severe cartilage lesions in the mouse OA model. Mechanistically, weakened DDX5 resulted in abundance of the Fn1-AS-WT and Plod2-AS-WT transcripts, which promoted expression of fibrosis-related genes (Col1, Acta2) and extracellular matrix degradation genes (Mmp13, Nos2 and so on), respectively. Additionally, loss of DDX5 prevented the unfolding Col2 promoter G-quadruplex, thereby reducing COL2 production. Together, our data suggest that strategies aimed at the upregulation of DDX5 hold significant potential for the treatment of cartilage fibrosis and degradation in OA.
PXD044101	38760822	Methylmalonic acidemia triggers lysosomal-autophagy dysfunctions. 	Methylmalonic acidemia triggers lysosomal-autophagy dysfunctions	DIA, HEK293, Methylmalonic acidemia	BACKGROUND: Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is a rare inborn error of propionate metabolism caused by deficiency of the mitochondrial methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MUT) enzyme. As matter of fact, MMA patients manifest impairment of the primary metabolic network with profound damages that involve several cell components, many of which have not been discovered yet. We employed cellular models and patients-derived fibroblasts to refine and uncover new pathologic mechanisms connected with MUT deficiency through the combination of multi-proteomics and bioinformatics approaches. RESULTS: Our data show that MUT deficiency is connected with profound proteome dysregulations, revealing molecular actors involved in lysosome and autophagy functioning. To elucidate the effects of defective MUT on lysosomal and autophagy regulation, we analyzed the morphology and functionality of MMA-lysosomes that showed deep alterations, thus corroborating omics data. Lysosomes of MMA cells present as enlarged vacuoles with low degradative capabilities. Notwithstanding, treatment with an anti-propionigenic drug is capable of totally rescuing lysosomal morphology and functional activity in MUT-deficient cells. These results indicate a strict connection between MUT deficiency and lysosomal-autophagy dysfunction, providing promising therapeutic perspectives for MMA. CONCLUSIONS: Defective homeostatic mechanisms in the regulation of autophagy and lysosome functions have been demonstrated in MUT-deficient cells. Our data prove that MMA triggers such dysfunctions impacting on autophagosome-lysosome fusion and lysosomal activity.
PXD041880	38761133	Differential impact of sex on regulation of skeletal muscle mitochondrial function and protein homeostasis by hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha in normoxia. 	Regulation of mitochondrial function and protein homeostasis by hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha in normoxia-mouse tissues	HIF1A, normoxia, senescence, skeletal muscle	Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha is continuously synthesized and degraded in normoxia. During hypoxia, HIF1alpha stabilization restricts cellular/mitochondrial oxygen utilization. Cellular stressors can stabilize HIF1alpha even during normoxia. However, less is known about HIF1alpha function(s) and sex-specific effects during normoxia in the basal state. Since skeletal muscle is the largest protein store in mammals and protein homeostasis has high energy demands, we determined HIF1alpha function at baseline during normoxia in skeletal muscle. Untargeted multiomics data analyses were followed by experimental validation in differentiated murine myotubes with loss/gain of function and skeletal muscle from mice without/with post-natal muscle-specific Hif1a deletion (Hif1a(msd)). Mitochondrial oxygen consumption studies using substrate, uncoupler, inhibitor, titration protocols; targeted metabolite quantification by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry; and post-mitotic senescence markers using biochemical assays were performed. Multiomics analyses showed enrichment in mitochondrial and cell cycle regulatory pathways in Hif1a deleted cells/tissue. Experimentally, mitochondrial oxidative functions and ATP content were higher with less mitochondrial free radical generation with Hif1a deletion. Deletion of Hif1a also resulted in higher concentrations of TCA cycle intermediates and HIF2alpha proteins in myotubes. Overall responses to Hif1a(msd) were similar in male and female mice, but changes in complex II function, maximum respiration, Sirt3 and HIF1beta protein expression and muscle fibre diameter were sex-dependent. Adaptive responses to hypoxia are mediated by stabilization of constantly synthesized HIF1alpha. Despite rapid degradation, the presence of HIF1alpha during normoxia contributes to lower mitochondrial oxidative efficiency and greater post-mitotic senescence in skeletal muscle. In vivo responses to HIF1alpha in skeletal muscle were differentially impacted by sex. KEY POINTS: Hypoxia-inducible factor -1alpha (HIF1alpha), a critical transcription factor, undergoes continuous synthesis and proteolysis, enabling rapid adaptive responses to hypoxia by reducing mitochondrial oxygen consumption. In mammals, skeletal muscle is the largest protein store which is determined by a balance between protein synthesis and breakdown and is sensitive to mitochondrial oxidative function. To investigate the functional consequences of transient HIF1alpha expression during normoxia in the basal state, myotubes and skeletal muscle from male and female mice with HIF1alpha knockout were studied using complementary multiomics, biochemical and metabolite assays. HIF1alpha knockout altered the electron transport chain, mitochondrial oxidative function, signalling molecules for protein homeostasis, and post-mitotic senescence markers, some of which were differentially impacted by sex. The cost of rapid adaptive responses mediated by HIF1alpha is lower mitochondrial oxidative efficiency and post-mitotic senescence during normoxia.
PXD041199	38761203	Identification of high-performing antibodies for the reliable detection of Tau proteoforms by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. 	Comprehensive Mapping of the Tau Antibody Landscape as a Resource for Western Blotting and ImmunohistochemistryComprehensive Mapping of the Tau Antibody Landscape as a Resource for Western Blotting and Immunohistochemistry	MAPT, Tau, antibody validation	Antibodies are essential research tools whose performance directly impacts research conclusions and reproducibility. Owing to its central role in Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, hundreds of distinct antibody clones have been developed against the microtubule-associated protein Tau and its multiple proteoforms. Despite this breadth of offer, limited understanding of their performance and poor antibody selectivity have hindered research progress. Here, we validate a large panel of Tau antibodies by Western blot (79 reagents) and immunohistochemistry (35 reagents). We address the reagents' ability to detect the target proteoform, selectivity, the impact of protein phosphorylation on antibody binding and performance in human brain samples. While most antibodies detected Tau at high levels, many failed to detect it at lower, endogenous levels. By WB, non-selective binding to other proteins affected over half of the antibodies tested, with several cross-reacting with the related MAP2 protein, whereas the "oligomeric Tau" T22 antibody reacted with monomeric Tau by WB, thus calling into question its specificity to Tau oligomers. Despite the presumption that "total" Tau antibodies are agnostic to post-translational modifications, we found that phosphorylation partially inhibits binding for many such antibodies, including the popular Tau-5 clone. We further combine high-sensitivity reagents, mass-spectrometry proteomics and cDNA sequencing to demonstrate that presumptive Tau "knockout" human cells continue to express residual protein arising through exon skipping, providing evidence of previously unappreciated gene plasticity. Finally, probing of human brain samples with a large panel of antibodies revealed the presence of C-term-truncated versions of all main Tau brain isoforms in both control and tauopathy donors. Ultimately, we identify a validated panel of Tau antibodies that can be employed in Western blotting and/or immunohistochemistry to reliably detect even low levels of Tau expression with high selectivity. This work represents an extensive resource that will enable the re-interpretation of published data, improve reproducibility in Tau research, and overall accelerate scientific progress.
PXD044000	38761707	A novel selenium nanocomposite modified by AANL inhibits tumor growth by upregulating CLK2 in lung cancer. 	Identification of differentially expressed proteins in lung cancer H157 cells after nanocomposite AANL-SeNPs treatment with DIA-MS detection	AANL-SeNPs, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), DIA-MS, H157, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), lung cancer	Lung cancer is a malignant tumor with high mortality and drug resistance. Therefore, it is urgent to explore natural and nontoxic drugs to treat lung cancer. In this study, the natural active ingredient AANL extracted from Agrocybe aegirita was used to modify nanoselenium by an oxidation-reduction method. Transmission electron microscope detection and infrared spectroscopy showed that a novel selenium nanocomposite named AANL-SeNPs was successfully prepared. The results of nanoscale characterization showed that AANL-SeNPs had good stability and uniform dispersion in aqueous solution by zeta potential and spectrum analysis. At the cellular level, we found that AANL-SeNPs significantly inhibited the cell viability of lung cancer cells, and the cell inhibition rate of 60 nM AANL-SeNPs was 39 % in H157 cells, 67 % in H147 cells, and 62 % in A549 cells. The IC50 value of AANL-SeNPs was 51.85 nM in A549 cells and 81.57 nM in H157 cells. Moreover, AANL-SeNPs could inhibit the cell proliferation and migration, and enhance the sensitivity of lung cancer cells to osimertinib and has no toxic to normal cells. In vivo, AANL-SeNPs significantly slowed tumor growth in tumor-bearing mice by establishing a subcutaneous transplantation tumor model for lung cancer, and the tumor size was smaller and was reduced about 79 % in 2 mg/kg AANL-SeNPs group compared with PBS group. Mechanistically, a total of 38 differentially expressed proteins were identified by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. A significantly upregulated protein, CDC-like kinase 2 (CLK2), was screened and validated for further analysis, which showed that the expression levels of CLK2 were increased in H157 and H1437 cells after AANL-SeNPs treatment. The results obtained in this study suggest that a novel selenium nanocomposite AANL-SeNPs, which inhibits lung cancer by upregulating the expression of CLK2.
PXD051673	38761794	Nuclear aggregates of NONO/SFPQ and A-to-I-edited RNA in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. 	Huamn iPSC midbrain neuron Parkinson disease	Parkinsons disease, iPSC, midbrain, synuclein	Neurodegenerative diseases are commonly classified as proteinopathies that are defined by the aggregation of a specific protein. Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are classified as synucleinopathies since alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn)-containing inclusions histopathologically define these diseases. Unbiased biochemical analysis of PD and DLB patient material unexpectedly revealed novel pathological inclusions in the nucleus comprising adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I)-edited mRNAs and NONO and SFPQ proteins. These inclusions showed no colocalization with Lewy bodies and accumulated at levels comparable to alpha-syn. NONO and SFPQ aggregates reduced the expression of the editing inhibitor ADAR3, increasing A-to-I editing mainly within human-specific, Alu-repeat regions of axon, synaptic, and mitochondrial transcripts. Inosine-containing transcripts aberrantly accumulated in the nucleus, bound tighter to recombinant purified SFPQ in vitro, and potentiated SFPQ aggregation in human dopamine neurons, resulting in a self-propagating pathological state. Our data offer new insight into the inclusion composition and pathophysiology of PD and DLB.
PXD051241	38762492	Hsc70 promotes anti-tumor immunity by targeting PD-L1 for lysosomal degradation. 	Proteomics of Hsc70-interacting Proteins	HSPA8	Immune checkpoint inhibition targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway has become a powerful clinical strategy for treating cancer, but its efficacy is complicated by various resistance mechanisms. One of the reasons for the resistance is the internalization and recycling of PD-L1 itself upon antibody binding. The inhibition of lysosome-mediated degradation of PD-L1 is critical for preserving the amount of PD-L1 recycling back to the cell membrane. In this study, we find that Hsc70 promotes PD-L1 degradation through the endosome-lysosome pathway and reduces PD-L1 recycling to the cell membrane. This effect is dependent on Hsc70-PD-L1 binding which inhibits the CMTM6-PD-L1 interaction. We further identify an Hsp90alpha/beta inhibitor, AUY-922, which induces Hsc70 expression and PD-L1 lysosomal degradation. Either Hsc70 overexpression or AUY-922 treatment can reduce PD-L1 expression, inhibit tumor growth and promote anti-tumor immunity in female mice; AUY-922 can further enhance the anti-tumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 and anti-CTLA4 treatment. Our study elucidates a molecular mechanism of Hsc70-mediated PD-L1 lysosomal degradation and provides a target and therapeutic strategies for tumor immunotherapy.
PXD026873	38766208	Enterococcal quorum-controlled protease alters phage infection. 	Proteomics of phage VPE25 treated Enterococcus faecalis OG1RF relative to untreated controls	1D-LC-MS/MS, Enteroccocus faecalis, phage VPE25	Increased prevalence of multidrug resistant bacterial infections has sparked interest in alternative antimicrobials, including bacteriophages (phages). Limited understanding of the phage infection process hampers our ability to utilize phages to their full therapeutic potential. To understand phage infection dynamics we performed proteomics on Enterococcus faecalis infected with the phage VPE25. We discovered numerous uncharacterized phage proteins are produced during phage infection of Enterococcus faecalis . Additionally, we identified hundreds of changes in bacterial protein abundances during infection. One such protein, enterococcal gelatinase (GelE), an fsr quorum sensing regulated protease involved in biofilm formation and virulence, was reduced during VPE25 infection. Plaque assays showed that mutation of either the fsrA or gelE resulted in plaques with a "halo" morphology and significantly larger diameters, suggesting decreased protection from phage infection. GelE-associated protection during phage infection is dependent on the murein hydrolase regulator LrgA and antiholin-like protein LrgB, whose expression have been shown to be regulated by GelE. Our work may be leveraged in the development of phage therapies that can modulate the production of GelE thereby altering biofilm formation and decreasing E. faecalis virulence.
PXD048307	38767394	Secretome of Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts (CAFs) Influences Drug Sensitivity in Cancer Cells. 	Secretome of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) influences drug sensitivity in cancer cells	CAF, Secretome, cancer-associated fibroblasts	Resistance is a major problem with effective cancer treatment and the stroma forms a significant portion of the tumor mass but traditional drug screens involve cancer cells alone. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are a major tumor stroma component and its secreted proteins may influence the function of cancer cells. The majority of secretome studies compare different cancer or CAF cell lines exclusively. Here, we present the direct characterization of the secreted protein profiles between CAFs and KRAS mutant-cancer cell lines from colorectal, lung, and pancreatic tissues using multiplexed mass spectrometry. 2573 secreted proteins were annotated, and differential analysis highlighted understudied CAF-enriched secreted proteins, including Wnt family member 5B (WNT5B), in addition to established CAF markers, such as collagens. The functional role of CAF secreted proteins was explored by assessing its effect on the response to 97 anticancer drugs since stromal cells may cause a differing cancer drug response, which may be missed on routine drug screening using cancer cells alone. CAF secreted proteins caused specific effects on each of the cancer cell lines, which highlights the complexity and challenges in cancer treatment and so the importance to consider stromal elements.
PXD044450	38768391	Improvement of tumor neoantigen detection by high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility mass spectrometry. 	Using FAIMS to improve tumor neoantigen detection	immunopeptidomics	Cancer neoantigens have been shown to elicit cancer-specific T-cell responses and have garnered much attention for their roles in both spontaneous and therapeutically induced antitumor responses. Mass spectrometry (MS) profiling of tumor immunopeptidomes has been used, in part, to identify MHC-bound mutant neoantigen ligands. However, under standard conditions, MS-based detection of such rare but clinically relevant neoantigens is relatively insensitive, requiring 300 million cells or more. Here, to quantitatively define the minimum detectable amounts of therapeutically relevant MHC-I and MHC-II neoantigen peptides, we analyzed different dilutions of immunopeptidomes isolated from the well-characterized T3 mouse methylcholanthrene (MCA)-induced cell line by MS. Using either data-dependent acquisition (DDA) or parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), we established the minimum amount of material required to detect the major T3 neoantigens in the presence or absence of high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS). This analysis yielded a 14-fold enhancement of sensitivity in detecting the major T3 MHC-I neoantigen (mLama4) with FAIMS-PRM compared with PRM without FAIMS, allowing ex-vivo detection of this neoantigen from an individual 100 mg T3 tumor. These findings were then extended to two other independent MCA-sarcoma lines (1956 and F244). This study demonstrates that FAIMS substantially increases the sensitivity of MS-based characterization of validated neoantigens from tumors.
PXD050547	38768529	Ketogenic diet modifies ribosomal protein dysregulation in KMT2D Kabuki syndrome. 	Ketogenic diet modifies ribosomal protein dysregulation in KMT2D Kabuki Syndrome	Epigenetic, TMTpro, butyrate, hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography, lysine methyltransferase, neurodevelopment, single-cell RNA sequencing, tandem mass tag	BACKGROUND: Kabuki syndrome (KS) is a genetic disorder caused by DNA mutations in KMT2D, a lysine methyltransferase that methylates histones and other proteins, and therefore modifies chromatin structure and subsequent gene expression. Ketones, derived from the ketogenic diet, are histone deacetylase inhibitors that can 'open' chromatin and encourage gene expression. Preclinical studies have shown that the ketogenic diet rescues hippocampal memory neurogenesis in mice with KS via the epigenetic effects of ketones. METHODS: Single-cell RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry-based proteomics were used to explore molecular mechanisms of disease in individuals with KS (n = 4) versus controls (n = 4). FINDINGS: Pathway enrichment analysis indicated that loss of function mutations in KMT2D are associated with ribosomal protein dysregulation at an RNA and protein level in individuals with KS (FDR <0.05). Cellular proteomics also identified immune dysregulation and increased abundance of other lysine modification and histone binding proteins, representing a potential compensatory mechanism. A 12-year-old boy with KS, suffering from recurrent episodes of cognitive decline, exhibited improved cognitive function and neuropsychological assessment performance after 12 months on the ketogenic diet, with concomitant improvement in transcriptomic ribosomal protein dysregulation. INTERPRETATION: Our data reveals that lysine methyltransferase deficiency is associated with ribosomal protein dysfunction, with secondary immune dysregulation. Diet and the production of bioactive molecules such as ketone bodies serve as a significant environmental factor that can induce epigenetic changes and improve clinical outcomes. Integrating transcriptomic, proteomic, and clinical data can define mechanisms of disease and treatment effects in individuals with neurodevelopmental disorders. FUNDING: This study was supported by the Dale NHMRC Investigator Grant (APP1193648) (R.D), Petre Foundation (R.D), and The Sydney Children's Hospital Foundation/Kids Research Early and Mid-Career Researcher Grant (E.T).
PXD048118	38768632	In vitro reconstitution of epigenetic reprogramming in the human germ line. 	In vitro reconstitution of epigenetic reprogramming in the human germ line	DNA demethylation, TET1, bone morphogenetic protein, epigenetic reprogramming, human germ cells, human primordial germ cell-like cells, in vitro gametogenesis	Epigenetic reprogramming resets parental epigenetic memories and differentiates primordial germ cells (PGCs) into mitotic pro-spermatogonia or oogonia, ensuring sexually dimorphic germ-cell development for totipotency (1). In vitro reconstitution of epigenetic reprogramming in humans remains a fundamental challenge. Here, we establish a robust strategy for inducing epigenetic reprogramming and differentiation of pluripotent stem cell (PSC)-derived human PGC-like cells (hPGCLCs) into mitotic pro-spermatogonia or oogonia, coupled with their extensive amplification (~>10(10)-fold). Strikingly, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is a key driver of these processes: BMP-driven hPGCLC differentiation involves an attenuation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway and both de novo and maintenance DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) activities, likely promoting replication-coupled, passive DNA demethylation. On the other hand, hPGCLCs deficient in tens-eleven translocation (TET) 1, an active DNA demethylase abundant in human germ cells (2,3), differentiate into extraembryonic cells, including amnion, with de-repression of key genes bearing bivalent promoters; these cells fail to fully activate genes vital for spermatogenesis and oogenesis, with their promoters remaining methylated. Our study elucidates the framework of epigenetic reprogramming in humans, making a fundamental advance in human biology, and through the generation of abundant mitotic pro-spermatogonia and oogonia-like cells, represents a milestone for human in vitro gametogenesis (IVG) research and its potential translation into reproductive medicine.
PXD050477	38768894	Quantitative proteomics revealed protein biomarkers to distinguish malignant pleural effusion from benign pleural effusion. 	Quantitative proteomics revealed novel protein biomarkers to distinguish malignant pleural effusion from benign pleural effusion	4D-DIA proteomics, Lung adenocarcinoma, malignant pleural effusion, protein biomarkers	To identify protein biomarkers capable of early prediction regarding the distinguishing malignant pleural effusion (MPE) from benign pleural effusion (BPE) in patients with lung disease. A four-dimensional data independent acquisition (4D-DIA) proteomic was performed to determine the differentially expressed proteins in samples from 20 lung adenocarcinoma MPE and 30 BPE. The significantly differential expressed proteins were selected for Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. Protein biomarkers with high capability to discriminate MPE from BPE patients were identified by Random Forest (RF) algorithm prediction model, whose diagnostic and prognostic efficacy in primary tumors were further explored in public datasets, and were validated by ELISA experiment. 50 important proteins (30 up-regulated and 20 down-regulated) were selected out as potential markers to distinguish the MPE from BPE group. GO analysis revealed that those proteins involving the most important cell component is extracellular space. KEGG analysis identified the involvement of cellular adhesion molecules pathway. Furthermore, the Area Under Curve (AUC) of these proteins were ranged from 0.717 to 1.000,with excellent diagnostic properties to distinguish the MPE. Finally, significant survival and gene and protein expression analysis demonstrated BPIFB1, DPP4, HPRT1 and ABI3BP had high discriminating values. SIGNIFICANCE: We performed a 4D-DIA proteomics to determine the differentially expressed proteins in pleural effusion samples from MPE and BPE. Some potential protein biomarkers were identified to distinguish the MPE from BPE patients., which may provide helpful diagnostic and therapeutic insights for lung cancer. This is significant because the median survival time of patients with MPE is usually 4-12 months, thus, it is particularly important to diagnose MPE early to start treatments promptly. The most common causes of MPE are lung cancers, while pneumonia and tuberculosis are the main causes of BPE. If more diagnostic markers could be identified periodically, there would be an important significance to clinical diagnose and treatment with drugs in lung cancer patients.
PXD051103	38769297	SOS1 tonoplast neo-localization and the RGG protein SALTY are important in the extreme salinity tolerance of Salicornia bigelovii. 	Salicornia bigelovii responses to NaCl	Salicornia bigelovii, Ultimate 3000 UHPLC/Q-Exactive, label free, membrane proteomics, plants, salt stress	The identification of genes involved in salinity tolerance has primarily focused on model plants and crops. However, plants naturally adapted to highly saline environments offer valuable insights into tolerance to extreme salinity. Salicornia plants grow in coastal salt marshes, stimulated by NaCl. To understand this tolerance, we generated genome sequences of two Salicornia species and analyzed the transcriptomic and proteomic responses of Salicornia bigelovii to NaCl. Subcellular membrane proteomes reveal that SbiSOS1, a homolog of the well-known SALT-OVERLY-SENSITIVE 1 (SOS1) protein, appears to localize to the tonoplast, consistent with subcellular localization assays in tobacco. This neo-localized protein can pump Na(+) into the vacuole, preventing toxicity in the cytosol. We further identify 11 proteins of interest, of which SbiSALTY, substantially improves yeast growth on saline media. Structural characterization using NMR identified it as an intrinsically disordered protein, localizing to the endoplasmic reticulum in planta, where it can interact with ribosomes and RNA, stabilizing or protecting them during salt stress.
PXD046557	38769340	An E3 ligase TRIM1 promotes colorectal cancer progression via K63-linked ubiquitination and activation of HIF1alpha. 	An E3 ligase TRIM1 promotes colorectal cancer progression via K63-linked ubiquitination and activation of HIF1alpha	HIF1alpha, ubiquitination	Accumulating studies have shown that E3 ligases play crucial roles in regulating cellular biological processes and signaling pathways during carcinogenesis via ubiquitination. Tripartite-motif (TRIM) ubiquitin E3 ligases consist of over 70 members. However, the clinical significance and their contributions to tumorigenesis remain largely unknown. In this study, we analyzed the RNA-sequencing expression of TRIM E3 ligases in colorectal cancer (CRC) and identified 10 differentially expressed genes, among which TRIM1 expression predicted poor prognosis of CRC patients. We demonstrated that TRIM1 expression is positively associated with CRC pathological stages, and higher expression is positively correlated with infiltrating levels of immune cells and immunotherapy biomarkers. TRIM1 expression promotes the proliferation and migration of colorectal cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Transcriptional analysis showed that TRIM1 is responsible for metabolism promotion and immune suppression. Mechanistically, we found that TRIM1 binds HIF1alpha and mediates its K63-linked ubiquitination, which is required for HIF1alpha nuclear translocation and subsequent activation. Ubiquitination occurs at Lys214 in the loop between the two PAS domains of HIF1alpha, and mutation of Lys214 severely disturbs the function of HIF1alpha. Besides, HIF1alpha ubiquitination enhances its binding with proteins involved in cellular trafficking and nucleocytoplasmic transport pathway. Collectively, our results indicate TRIM1's role in predicting prognosis and reveal how TRIM1 functions to upregulate HIF1alpha expression and promote tumor cell proliferation.
PXD050295	38770133	Repurposing homoharringtonine for thyroid cancer treatment through TIMP1/FAK/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. 	Repurposing homoharringtonine for thyroid cancer therapy through TIMP1/FAK/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway	PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, TIMP1, Thyroid cancer, homoharringtonine	Homoharringtonine (HHT), an alkaloid isolated from Cephalotaxus, is an effective anti-leukemia agent and exhibits inhibitory effects in various solid tumors. However, the impacts of HHT treatment on thyroid cancer (TC) remain unclear. Our findings demonstrated that HHT exhibited remarkable anti-TC activity that involved inhibiting cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, as well as inducing apoptosis. Proteomics analysis revealed that the expression of the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP1) was downregulated in TC cells after HHT treatment. TIMP1 overexpression promoted TC progression and partially reversed the anti-TC effects of HHT, while TIMP1 downregulation inhibited TC progression and enhanced the anti-TC effects of HHT. Furthermore, TIMP1 re-expression attenuated the enhancement of anti-TC effects of HHT induced by TIMP1 knockdown. Mechanistically, HHT exerted anti-TC effects by downregulating TIMP1 expression and then inactivating the FAK/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Taken together, our study demonstrated that HHT could inhibit TC progression by inhibiting the TIMP1/FAK/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
PXD041810	38773155	Parental experiences orchestrate locust egg hatching synchrony by regulating nuclear export of precursor miRNA. 	The proteins binding with locust pre-miR-276	locust, miRNA biogenesis, protein complex	Parental experiences can affect the phenotypic plasticity of offspring. In locusts, the population density that adults experience regulates the number and hatching synchrony of their eggs, contributing to locust outbreaks. However, the pathway of signal transmission from parents to offspring remains unclear. Here, we find that transcription factor Forkhead box protein N1 (FOXN1) responds to high population density and activates the polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 1 (Ptbp1) in locusts. FOXN1-PTBP1 serves as an upstream regulator of miR-276, a miRNA to control egg-hatching synchrony. PTBP1 boosts the nucleo-cytoplasmic transport of pre-miR-276 in a "CU motif"-dependent manner, by collaborating with the primary exportin protein exportin 5 (XPO5). Enhanced nuclear export of pre-miR-276 elevates miR-276 expression in terminal oocytes, where FOXN1 activates Ptbp1 and leads to egg-hatching synchrony in response to high population density. Additionally, PTBP1-prompted nuclear export of pre-miR-276 is conserved in insects, implying a ubiquitous mechanism to mediate transgenerational effects.
PXD030976	38774451	SOX11 is a novel binding partner and endogenous inhibitor of SAMHD1 ara-CTPase activity in mantle cell lymphoma. 	SOX11 IP-MS data from Granta and Jeko cell lines in biological triplicates and IgG controls	IP-MS/MS, SOX11, co-immunoprecipitation	The sterile alpha motif and histidine-aspartate (HD) domain containing protein 1 (SAMHD1) is a deoxynucleoside triphosphate triphosphohydrolase with ara-CTPase activity that confers cytarabine (ara-C) resistance in several haematological malignancies. Targeting SAMHD1's ara-CTPase activity has recently been demonstrated to enhance ara-C efficacy in acute myeloid leukemia. Here, we identify the transcription factor SRY-related HMG-box containing protein 11 (SOX11) as a novel direct binding partner and first known endogenous inhibitor of SAMHD1. SOX11 is aberrantly expressed not only in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), but also in some Burkitt lymphomas. Co-immunoprecipitation of SOX11 followed by mass spectrometry in MCL cell lines identified SAMHD1 as the top SOX11 interaction partner which was validated by proximity ligation assay. In vitro, SAMHD1 bound to the HMG box of SOX11 with low-micromolar affinity. In situ crosslinking studies further indicated that SOX11-SAMHD1 binding resulted in a reduced tetramerization of SAMHD1. Functionally, expression of SOX11 inhibited SAMHD1 ara-CTPase activity in a dose-dependent manner resulting in ara-C sensitization in cell lines and in a SOX11-inducible mouse model of MCL. In SOX11-negative MCL, SOX11-mediated ara-CTPase inhibition could be mimicked by adding the recently identified SAMHD1 inhibitor hydroxyurea. Taken together, our results identify SOX11 as a novel SAMHD1 interaction partner and its first known endogenous inhibitor with potentially important implications for clinical therapy stratification.
PXD048603	38775843	Cellular depletion of major cathepsin proteases reveals their concerted activities for lysosomal proteolysis. 	Cellular Depletion of Major Cathepsin Proteases in HeLa and SH-SY5Y Cells	Cathepsin, HeLa, SH-SY5Y, lysosome, proteolysis	Proteins delivered by endocytosis or autophagy to lysosomes are degraded by exo- and endoproteases. In humans 15 lysosomal cathepsins (CTS) act as important physiological regulators. The cysteine proteases CTSB and CTSL and the aspartic protease CTSD are the most abundant and functional important lysosomal proteinases. Whereas their general functions in proteolysis in the lysosome, their individual substrate, cleavage specificity, and their possible sequential action on substrate proteins have been previously studied, their functional redundancy is still poorly understood. To address a possible common role of highly expressed and functional important CTS proteases, we generated CTSB-, CTSD-, CTSL-, and CTSBDL-triple deficient (KO) human neuroblastoma-derived SH-SY5Y cells and CTSB-, CTSD-, CTSL-, CTSZ and CTSBDLZ-quadruple deficient (KO) HeLa cells. These cells with a combined cathepsin deficiency exhibited enlarged lysosomes and accumulated lipofuscin-like storage material. The lack of the three (SH-SY5Y) or four (HeLa) major CTSs caused an impaired autophagic flux and reduced degradation of endocytosed albumin. Proteome analyses of parental and CTS-depleted cells revealed an enrichment of cleaved peptides, lysosome/autophagy-associated proteins, and potentially endocytosed membrane proteins like the amyloid precursor protein (APP), which can be subject to endocytic degradation. Amino- and carboxyterminal APP fragments accumulated in the multiple CTS-deficient cells, suggesting that multiple CTS-mediated cleavage events regularly process APP. In summary, our analyses support the idea that different lysosomal cathepsins act in concert, have at least partially and functionally redundant substrates, regulate protein degradation in autophagy, and control cellular proteostasis, as exemplified by their involvement in the degradation of APP fragments.
PXD048412	38776430	Proteomic Barcoding Platform for Macromolecular Screening and Delivery. 	A proteomic barcoding platform for macromolecular screening and delivery	BarcodeBabel, PeptideBabel, barcoding, macromolecular drug delivery	Engineered macromolecules offer compelling means for the therapy of conventionally undruggable interactions in human disease. However, their efficacy is limited by barriers to tissue and intracellular delivery. Inspired by recent advances in molecular barcoding and evolution, we developed BarcodeBabel, a generalized method for the design of libraries of peptide barcodes suitable for high-throughput mass spectrometry proteomics. Combined with PeptideBabel, a Monte Carlo sampling algorithm for the design of peptides with evolvable physicochemical properties and sequence complexity, we developed a barcoded library of cell penetrating peptides (CPPs) with distinct physicochemical features. Using quantitative targeted mass spectrometry, we identified CPPS with improved nuclear and cytoplasmic delivery exceeding hundreds of millions of molecules per human cell while maintaining minimal membrane disruption and negligible toxicity in vitro. These studies provide a proof of concept for peptide barcoding as a homogeneous high-throughput method for macromolecular screening and delivery. BarcodeBabel and PeptideBabel are available open-source from https://github.com/kentsisresearchgroup/.
PXD048325	38777088	Fully automated workflow for integrated sample digestion and Evotip loading enabling high-throughput clinical proteomics. 	Fully automated workflow for integrated sample digestion and Evotip loading enabling high-throughput clinical proteomics	Automation, DIA, Plasma proteomics, biomarkers	Protein identification and quantification is an important tool for biomarker discovery. With the increased sensitivity and speed of modern mass spectrometers, sample-preparation remains a bottleneck for studying large cohorts. To address this issue, we prepared and evaluated a simple and efficient workflow on the Opentrons OT-2 (OT-2) robot that combines sample digestion, cleanup and loading on Evotips in a fully automated manner, allowing the processing of up to 192 samples in 6 hours. Analysis of 192 automated HeLa cell sample preparations consistently identified ~8000 protein groups and ~130,000 peptide precursors with an 11.5 minute active LC gradient with the Evosep One and narrow-window data-independent acquisition with the Orbitrap Astral mass spectrometer providing a throughput of 100-samples-per-day. Our results demonstrate a highly sensitive workflow yielding both reproducibility and stability at low sample inputs. The workflow is optimized for minimal sample starting amount to reduce the costs for reagents needed for sample preparation, which is critical when analyzing large biological cohorts. Building on the digesting workflow, we incorporated an automated phosphopeptide enrichment step using magnetic Ti-IMAC beads. This allows for a fully automated proteome and phosphoproteome sample preparation in a single step with high sensitivity. Using the integrated digestion and Evotip loading workflow, we evaluated the effects of cancer immune therapy on the plasma proteome in metastatic melanoma patients.
PXD048062	38777143	A novel gain-of-function phosphorylation site modulates PTPN22 inhibition of TCR signaling. 	Immunoprecipitated PTPN22 Phosphoproteomics from Jurkat Cells	IP-MS, PTPN22, Protein tyrosine kinases, Protein tyrosine phosphatases, T cell signaling	Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Non-receptor type 22 (PTPN22) is encoded by a major autoimmunity gene and is a known inhibitor of T cell receptor (TCR) signaling and drug target for cancer immunotherapy. However, little is known about PTPN22 post-translational regulation. Here we characterize a phosphorylation site at Ser(325) situated C-terminal to the catalytic domain of PTPN22, and its roles in altering protein function. In human T cells, Ser(325) is phosphorylated by Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3 (GSK3) following TCR stimulation, which promotes its TCR-inhibitory activity. Signaling through the major TCR-dependent pathway under PTPN22 control was enhanced by CRISPR/Cas9 mediated suppression of Ser(325) phosphorylation and inhibited by mimicking it via glutamic acid substitution. Global phospho-mass spectrometry showed Ser(325) phosphorylation state alters downstream transcriptional activity through enrichment of Swi3p, Rsc8p and Moira (SWIRM) domain binding proteins, and next-generation sequencing (NGS) revealed it differentially regulates the expression of chemokines and T cell activation pathways. Moreover, in vitro kinetic data suggest the modulation of activity depends on a cellular context. Finally, we begin to address the structural and mechanistic basis for the influence of Ser(325) phosphorylation on the protein's properties by Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (DX/MS) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. In conclusion, this study explores the function of a novel phosphorylation site of PTPN22 that is involved in complex regulation of TCR signaling and provides details that might inform the future development of allosteric modulators of PTPN22. Significance statement The tyrosine phosphatase PTPN22 serves as a negative regulator in T cells, and its phosphorylation is a major regulatory process for controlling its function. Here, we uncovered a novel phosphorylation site at Ser(325) on PTPN22 that allosterically regulates its activity leading to impaired TCR-dependent pathways. Biophysical methods identify multiple regions affected upon Ser(325) phosphorylation, which can be the basis for future mechanistic studies of PTPN22 activators or inhibitors.
PXD043703	38777145	LC3A-mediated autophagy elicits PERK-eIF2alpha-ATF4 axis activation and mitochondrial dysfunction: Exposing vulnerability in aggresome positive cancer cells. 	LC3A and Aggresomes: A trigger for UPR-activation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and cellular senescence	Autophagy, Carcinoma, Choroid plexus, Endoplasmic reticulum, Inclusion bodies, MAP1LC3A, Mitochondria, Proteostasis, Senescence	The unfolded protein response pathways (UPR), autophagy, and compartmentalization of misfolded proteins into inclusion bodies are critical components of the protein quality control network. Among inclusion bodies, aggresomes are particularly intriguing due to their association with cellular survival, drug resistance, and cancer-aggressive behavior. Aggresomes are molecular condensates formed when collapsed vimentin cages encircle misfolded proteins before final removal by autophagy. Yet significant gaps persist in the mechanisms governing aggresome formation and elimination in cancer cells. Understanding these mechanisms is crucial, especially considering the involvement of LC3A, a member of the MAP1LC3 family, which plays a unique role in autophagy regulation and has been reported to be epigenetically silenced in many cancers. Herein, we utilized tetracycline-inducible expression of LC3A to investigate its role in choroid plexus carcinoma cells, which inherently exhibit the presence of aggresomes. Live cell imaging was employed to demonstrate the effect of LC3A expression on aggresome-positive cells, while SILAC-based proteomics identified LC3A-induced protein and pathway alterations. Our findings demonstrate that extended expression of LC3A is associated with cellular senescence. However, the obstruction of lysosomal degradation in this context has a deleterious effect on cellular viability. In response to LC3A-induced autophagy, we observed significant alterations in mitochondrial morphology, reflected by mitochondrial dysfunction and increased ROS production. Furthermore, LC3A expression elicited the activation of the PERK-eIF2alpha-ATF4 axis of the UPR, underscoring a significant change in protein quality control network. In conclusion, our results elucidate that LC3A-mediated autophagy alters the protein quality control network, exposing a vulnerability in aggresome-positive cancer cells.
PXD032156	38777147	Quantitative proteomics reveals CLR interactome in primary human cells. 	Novel protein interaction network of human calcitonin receptor-like receptor revealed by label-free quantitative proteomics 	Endothelial cell, lymphatic, skin.	The G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CLR) mediates essential functions in several cell types and is implicated in cardiovascular pathologies, skin diseases, migraine and cancer. To date, the network of proteins interacting with CLR ("CLR interactome") in primary cells, where this GPCR is expressed at endogenous (physiologically relevant) levels, remains unknown. To address this knowledge gap, we established a novel integrative methodological workflow/approach for conducting a comprehensive/proteome-wide analysis of Homo sapiens CLR interactome. We used primary human dermal lymphatic endothelial cells and combined immunoprecipitation (IP) utilising anti-human CLR antibody with label-free quantitative nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nano LC-MS/MS) and quantitative in situ proximity ligation assay (PLA). By using this workflow, we identified 37 proteins interacting with endogenously expressed CLR amongst 4,902 detected members of the cellular proteome (by quantitative nano LC-MS/MS) and revealed direct interactions of two kinases and two transporters with this GPCR (by in situ PLA). All identified interactors have not been previously reported as members of CLR interactome. Our approach and findings uncover the hitherto unrecognized compositional complexity of the interactome of endogenously expressed CLR and contribute to fundamental understanding of the biology of this GPCR. Collectively, our study provides a first-of-its-kind integrative methodological approach and datasets as valuable resources and robust platform/springboard for advancing the discovery and comprehensive characterization of physiologically relevant CLR interactome at a proteome-wide level in a range of cell types and diseases in future studies.
PXD044526	38778096	Natural proteome diversity links aneuploidy tolerance to protein turnover. 	The natural diversity of the yeast proteome links aneuploidy tolerance to genome-wide proteome	aneuploidy, diversity, high-throughput, lab-engineered strains, large-scale, wild isolates	Accessing the natural genetic diversity of species unveils hidden genetic traits, clarifies gene functions and allows the generalizability of laboratory findings to be assessed. One notable discovery made in natural isolates of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is that aneuploidy-an imbalance in chromosome copy numbers-is frequent(1,2) (around 20%), which seems to contradict the substantial fitness costs and transient nature of aneuploidy when it is engineered in the laboratory(3-5). Here we generate a proteomic resource and merge it with genomic(1) and transcriptomic(6) data for 796 euploid and aneuploid natural isolates. We find that natural and lab-generated aneuploids differ specifically at the proteome. In lab-generated aneuploids, some proteins-especially subunits of protein complexes-show reduced expression, but the overall protein levels correspond to the aneuploid gene dosage. By contrast, in natural isolates, more than 70% of proteins encoded on aneuploid chromosomes are dosage compensated, and average protein levels are shifted towards the euploid state chromosome-wide. At the molecular level, we detect an induction of structural components of the proteasome, increased levels of ubiquitination, and reveal an interdependency of protein turnover rates and attenuation. Our study thus highlights the role of protein turnover in mediating aneuploidy tolerance, and shows the utility of exploiting the natural diversity of species to attain generalizable molecular insights into complex biological processes.
PXD036779	38778156	The immune response to RNA suppresses nucleic acid synthesis by limiting ribose 5-phosphate. 	Suppression of the nucleic acid precursor ribose 5-phosphate by RNA-mediated antiviral immunity.	Antiviral immunity, metabolism, protein Kinase R PKR, ribose 5-phosphate isomerase	During infection viruses hijack host cell metabolism to promote their replication. Here, analysis of metabolite alterations in macrophages exposed to poly I:C recognises that the antiviral effector Protein Kinase RNA-activated (PKR) suppresses glucose breakdown within the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). This pathway runs parallel to central glycolysis and is critical to producing NADPH and pentose precursors for nucleotides. Changes in metabolite levels between wild-type and PKR-ablated macrophages show that PKR controls the generation of ribose 5-phosphate, in a manner distinct from its established function in gene expression but dependent on its kinase activity. PKR phosphorylates and inhibits the Ribose 5-Phosphate Isomerase A (RPIA), thereby preventing interconversion of ribulose- to ribose 5-phosphate. This activity preserves redox control but decreases production of ribose 5-phosphate for nucleotide biosynthesis. Accordingly, the PKR-mediated immune response to RNA suppresses nucleic acid production. In line, pharmacological targeting of the PPP during infection decreases the replication of the Herpes simplex virus. These results identify an immune response-mediated control of host cell metabolism and suggest targeting the RPIA as a potential innovative antiviral treatment.
PXD032333	38778280	Proteomic snapshot of saliva samples predicts new pathways implicated in SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. 	Proteomic snapshot of saliva samples reveals new pathways implicated in SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, functional analysis, pathogenesis, saliva	BACKGROUND: Information on the microbiome's human pathways and active members that can affect SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility and pathogenesis in the salivary proteome is very scarce. Here, we studied a unique collection of samples harvested from April to June 2020 from unvaccinated patients. METHODS: We compared 10 infected and hospitalized patients with severe (n = 5) and moderate (n = 5) coronavirus disease (COVID-19) with 10 uninfected individuals, including non-COVID-19 but susceptible individuals (n = 5) and non-COVID-19 and nonsusceptible healthcare workers with repeated high-risk exposures (n = 5). RESULTS: By performing high-throughput proteomic profiling in saliva samples, we detected 226 unique differentially expressed (DE) human proteins between groups (q-value <= 0.05) out of 3376 unambiguously identified proteins (false discovery rate <= 1%). Major differences were observed between the non-COVID-19 and nonsusceptible groups. Bioinformatics analysis of DE proteins revealed human proteomic signatures related to inflammatory responses, central cellular processes, and antiviral activity associated with the saliva of SARS-CoV-2-infected patients (p-value <= 0.0004). Discriminatory biomarker signatures from human saliva include cystatins, protective molecules present in the oral cavity, calprotectins, involved in cell cycle progression, and histones, related to nucleosome functions. The expression levels of two human proteins related to protein transport in the cytoplasm, DYNC1 (p-value, 0.0021) and MAPRE1 (p-value, 0.047), correlated with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) plasma activity. Finally, the proteomes of microorganisms present in the saliva samples showed 4 main microbial functional features related to ribosome functioning that were overrepresented in the infected group. CONCLUSION: Our study explores potential candidates involved in pathways implicated in SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility, although further studies in larger cohorts will be necessary.
PXD051568	38779482	Opportunistic pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis targets the LC3B-ceramide complex and mediates lethal mitophagy resistance in oral tumors. 	Opportunistic pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis targets the LC3B-ceramide complex and mediates lethal mitophagy resistance in oral tumors	Ceramide, Ceramide-dependent mitophagy, Oral Cancers, Oral infection, Oral microbiota, Sphingolipid metabolism, Therapeutic resistance	Mechanisms by which Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis) infection enhances oral tumor growth or resistance to cell death remain elusive. Here, we determined that P. gingivalis infection mediates therapeutic resistance via inhibiting lethal mitophagy in cancer cells and tumors. Mechanistically, P. gingivalis targets the LC3B-ceramide complex by associating with LC3B via bacterial major fimbriae (FimA) protein, preventing ceramide-dependent mitophagy in response to various therapeutic agents. Moreover, ceramide-mediated mitophagy is induced by Annexin A2 (ANXA2)-ceramide association involving the E142 residue of ANXA2. Inhibition of ANXA2-ceramide-LC3B complex formation by wild-type P. gingivalis prevented ceramide-dependent mitophagy. Moreover, a FimA-deletion mutant P. gingivalis variant had no inhibitory effects on ceramide-dependent mitophagy. Further, 16S rRNA sequencing of oral tumors indicated that P. gingivalis infection altered the microbiome of the tumor macroenvironment in response to ceramide analog treatment in mice. Thus, these data provide a mechanism describing the pro-survival roles of P. gingivalis in oral tumors.
PXD052500	38780475	Profiling of the Proteins Interacting with Amyloid Beta Peptides in Clinical Samples by PACTS-TPP. 	Profiling of the proteins interacting with amyloid beta peptides in clinical samples by PACTS-TPP	Alzheimers disease, Amyloid beta 1-42, Peptide-ligand-induced abundance change of proteins, Thermal proteome profiling	The accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta1-42) results in neurotoxicity and is strongly related to neurodegenerative disorders, especially Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying molecular mechanism is still poorly understood. Therefore, there is an urgent need for researchers to discover the proteins that interact with Abeta1-42 to determine the molecular basis. Previously, we developed peptide-ligand-induced changes in the abundance of proTeinS (PACTS)-assisted thermal proteome profiling (TPP) to identify proteins that interact with peptide ligands. In the present study, we applied this technique to analyze clinical samples to identify Abeta1-42-interacting proteins. We detected 115 proteins that interact with Abeta1-42 in human frontal lobe tissue. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that the differentially expressed proteins were involved mainly in neurodegenerative diseases. Further orthogonal validation revealed that Abeta1-42 interacted with the AD-associated protein mitogen-activated protein kinase 3 (MAPK3), and knockdown of the Abeta1-42 amyloid precursor protein (APP) inhibited the MAPK signaling pathway, suggesting potential functional roles for Abeta1-42 in interacting with MAPK3. Overall, this study demonstrated the application of the PACTS-TPP in clinical samples and provided a valuable data source for research on neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD050619	38781103	PKMYT1 is a Marker of Treatment Response and a Therapeutic Target for CDK4/6 Inhibitor-Resistance in ER+ Breast Cancer. 	KiP analysis of ER+ Breast Cancer	CDK4/6, ER+ Breast Cancer, Endocrine therapy, PKMYT1	Endocrine therapies (ET) with CDK4/6 inhibition are the standard treatment for estrogen receptor-alpha-positive (ER+) breast cancer, however drug resistance is common. In this study, proteogenomic analyses of 22 ER+ breast cancer patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) demonstrated that PKMYT1, a WEE1 homolog, is estradiol (E2) regulated in E2-dependent PDXs and constitutively expressed when growth is E2-independent. In clinical samples, high PKMYT1 mRNA levels associated with resistance to both ET and CDK4/6 inhibition. The PKMYT1 inhibitor lunresertib (RP-6306) with gemcitabine selectively and synergistically reduced the viability of ET and palbociclib-resistant ER+ breast cancer cells without functional p53. In vitro the combination increased DNA damage and apoptosis. In palbociclib-resistant, TP53 mutant PDX organoids and xenografts, RP-6306 with low-dose gemcitabine induced greater tumor volume reduction compared to treatment with either single agent. Our study demonstrates the clinical potential of RP-6306 in combination with gemcitabine for ET and CDK4/6 inhibitor resistant TP53 mutant ER+ breast cancer.
PXD018513	38781332	Functional vertical connectivity of microbial communities in the ocean. 	Metaproteomic analysis of microbial community structure and function in the South China Sea	South China Sea, metaproteomics	Sinking particles are a critical conduit for the transport of surface microbes to the ocean's interior. Vertical connectivity of phylogenetic composition has been shown; however, the functional vertical connectivity of microbial communities has not yet been explored in detail. We investigated protein and taxa profiles of both free-living and particle-attached microbial communities from the surface to 3000 m depth using a combined metaproteomic and 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing approach. A clear compositional and functional vertical connectivity of microbial communities was observed throughout the water column with Oceanospirillales, Alteromonadales, and Rhodobacterales as key taxa. The surface-derived particle-associated microbes increased the expression of proteins involved in basic metabolism, organic matter processing, and environmental stress response in deep waters. This study highlights the functional vertical connectivity between surface and deep-sea microbial communities via sinking particles and reveals that a considerable proportion of the deep-sea microbes might originate from surface waters and have a major impact on the biogeochemical cycles in the deep sea.
PXD042908	38783095	The p21CIP1-CDK4-DREAM axis is a master regulator of genotoxic stress-induced cellular senescence. 	Protein-protein interactions of p21 in MCF7 cells during cellular senescence	benzo[a]pyrene, dimethyl-labelling, p21, protein-protein interactions, senescence	Cellular senescence, a major driver of aging, can be stimulated by DNA damage, and is counteracted by the DNA repair machinery. Here we show that in p16INK4a-deficient cells, senescence induction by the environmental genotoxin B[a]P or ionizing radiation (IR) completely depends on p21CIP1. Immunoprecipitation-based mass spectrometry interactomics data revealed that during senescence induction and maintenance, p21CIP1 specifically inhibits CDK4 and thereby activates the DREAM complex. Genome-wide transcriptomics revealed striking similarities in the response induced by B[a]P and IR. Among the top 100 repressed genes 78 were identical between B[a]P and IR and 76 were DREAM targets. The DREAM complex transcriptionally silences the main proliferation-associated transcription factors E2F1, FOXM1 and B-Myb as well as multiple DNA repair factors. Knockdown of p21CIP1, E2F4 or E2F5 diminished both, repression of these factors and senescence. The transcriptional profiles evoked by B[a]P and IR largely overlapped with the profile induced by pharmacological CDK4 inhibition, further illustrating the role of CDK4 inhibition in genotoxic stress-induced senescence. Moreover, data obtained by live-cell time-lapse microscopy suggest the inhibition of CDK4 by p21CIP1 is especially important for arresting cells which slip through mitosis. Overall, we identified the p21CIP1/CDK4/DREAM axis as a master regulator of genotoxic stress-induced senescence.
PXD051807	38783958	Investigation of the molecular mechanism of Smilax glabra Roxb. in treating hypertension based on proteomics and bioinformatics. 	Investigation of the molecular mechanism of Smilax glabra Roxb. in treating hypertension based on proteomics and bioinformatic	ALDH2, Smilax glabra Roxb., high blood pressure, immune cell infiltration	Background: Smilax glabra Roxb. (named tufuling in Chinese, SGR) has both medicinal and edible value. SGR has obvious pharmacological activity, especially in anti-inflammation and treating immune system diseases. This study investigated differential protein expression and its relationship with immune infiltration in hypertension treated with SGR using proteomics and bioinformatics. Methods: N-Nitro L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) was used to replicate the hypertension model, with SGR administered by gavage for 4 weeks, and the systolic and diastolic blood pressure in each group of rats was measured using the tail-cuff method every 7 days. Furthermore, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to determine the serum total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) expressions in each group, followed by the detection of protein expression in rat liver samples using the tandem mass tag (TMT) technique. Additionally, hub targets were output using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and ALDH2 expression in the liver and serum in each group of rats was detected by ELISA. Moreover, R4.3.0 software was used to evaluate the relationship between acetaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) and immune cells, and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) was performed to identify the components of SGR. Furthermore, the association between components of SGR and ALDH2 was analyzed with molecular docking and LigPlot1.4.5 software. Results: Compared with the model group (L-NAME), SGR at high and medium doses reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure while reducing TC, TG, and LDL-C levels and increasing HDL-C levels in hypertensive rats (p < 0.05). Moreover, 92 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified using TMT. These DEPs participated in peroxisome functioning, fatty acid degradation, and other signaling pathways, with ALDH2 being the core target and correlated with various immune cells. In addition, 18 components were determined in SGR, with 8 compounds binding to ALDH2. Molecular docking was performed to confirm that SGR played a role in hypertension based on the combined action of multiple components. Conclusion: In conclusion, SGR has an antihypertensive effect on L-NAME-induced hypertension, with ALDH2 as its hub target. SGR may regulate neutrophil, regulatory T cell, and other cells' infiltration by targeting ALDH2, thereby contributing to the treatment of hypertension.
PXD051781	38784801	CpSmt3, an ortholog of small ubiquitin-like modifier, is essential for growth, organelle function, virulence, and antiviral defense in Cryphonectria parasitica. 	Cryphonectria parasitic Smt3 deletion	Cryphonectria parasitic SUMO label free	Introduction: SUMOylation is an important post-translational modification that regulates the expression, localization, and activity of substrate proteins, thereby participating in various important cellular processes such as the cell cycle, cell metabolism, gene transcription, and antiviral activity. However, the function of SUMOylation in phytopathogenic fungi has not yet been adequately explored. Methods: A comprehensive analysis composed of proteomics, affinity pull-down, molecular and cellular approaches was performed to explore the roles of SUMOylation in Cryphonectria parasitica, the fungal pathogen responsible for chestnut blight. Results and discussion: CpSmt3, the gene encoding the SUMO protein CpSmt3 in C. parasitica was identified and characterized. Deletion of the CpSmt3 gene resulted in defects in mycelial growth and hyphal morphology, suppression of sporulation, attenuation of virulence, weakening of stress tolerance, and elevated accumulation of hypovirus dsRNA. The DeltaCpSmt3 deletion mutant exhibited an increase in mitochondrial ROS, swollen mitochondria, excess autophagy, and thickened cell walls. About 500 putative SUMO substrate proteins were identified by affinity pull-down, among which many were implicated in the cell cycle, ribosome, translation, and virulence. Proteomics and SUMO substrate analyses further revealed that deletion of CpSmt3 reduced the accumulation of CpRho1, an important protein that is involved in TOR signal transduction. Silencing of CpRho1 resulted in a phenotype similar to that of DeltaCpSmt3, while overexpression of CpRho1 could partly rescue some of the prominent defects in DeltaCpSmt3. Together, these findings demonstrate that SUMOylation by CpSmt3 is vitally important and provide new insights into the SUMOylation-related regulatory mechanisms in C. parasitica.
PXD048928	38785179	Proteomic diversification of spermatostyles among six species of whirligig beetles. 	Proteomic diversification of spermatostyles among six species of whirligig beetles	Coleoptera, Evolution, Fertility, Reproduction, Sexual selection	Seminal fluid protein composition is complex and commonly assumed to be rapidly divergent due to functional interactions with both sperm and the female reproductive tract (FRT), both of which evolve rapidly. In addition to sperm, seminal fluid may contain structures, such as mating plugs and spermatophores. Here, we investigate the evolutionary diversification of a lesser-known ejaculate structure: the spermatostyle, which has independently arisen in several families of beetles and true bugs. We characterized the spermatostyle proteome, in addition to spermatostyle and FRT morphology, in six species of whirligig beetles (family Gyrinidae). Spermatostyles were enriched for proteolytic enzymes, and assays confirmed they possess proteolytic activity. Sperm-leucylaminopeptidases (S-LAPs) were particularly abundant, and their localization to spermatostyles was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Although there was evidence for functional conservation of spermatostyle proteomes across species, phylogenetic regressions suggest evolutionary covariation between protein composition and the morphology of both spermatostyles and FRTs. We postulate that S-LAPs (and other proteases) have evolved a novel structural role in spermatostyles and discuss spermatostyles as adaptations for delivering male-derived materials to females.
PXD042574	38785273	Mapping Conformational Changes in the Saliva Proteome Potentially Associated with Oral Cancer Aggressiveness. 	Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry of saliva maps proteome-wide structural changes associated with oral cancer aggressiveness.	Functional proteomics, Limited proteolysis, Oral cance, Prognosis, Protein post-translational modification, Saliva, Structural proteomic	Diverse proteomics-based strategies have been applied to saliva to quantitatively identify diagnostic and prognostic targets for oral cancer. Considering that these targets may be regulated by events that do not imply variation in protein abundance levels, we hypothesized that changes in protein conformation can be associated with diagnosis and prognosis, revealing biological processes and novel targets of clinical relevance. For this, we employed limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry in saliva samples to explore structural alterations, comparing the proteome of healthy control and oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients with and without lymph node metastasis. Thirty-six proteins with potential structural rearrangements were associated with clinical patient features including transketolase and its interacting partners. Moreover, N-glycosylated peptides contribute to structural rearrangements of potential diagnostic and prognostic markers. Altogether, this approach utilizes saliva proteins to search for targets for diagnosing and prognosing oral cancer and can guide the discovery of potential regulated sites beyond protein-level abundance.
PXD048934	38786019	Protein Signature Differentiating Neutrophils and Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells Determined Using a Human Isogenic Cell Line Model and Protein Profiling. 	Integrated Multi-Omics Profiling for the Identification of Markers Associated with Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells in Human Isogenic Cell Line Models of Neutrophils and Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells	Cancer, Gene Signature, Immunotherapy, MDSC, Mass spectrometry., Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells, RNA Sequencing, Tumor Microenvironment	Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) play an essential role in suppressing the antitumor activity of T lymphocytes in solid tumors, thus representing an attractive therapeutic target to enhance the efficacy of immunotherapy. However, the differences in protein expression between MDSCs and their physiological counterparts, particularly polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs), remain inadequately characterized, making the specific identification and targeting of MDSCs difficult. PMNs and PMN-MDSCs share markers such as CD11b+CD14-CD15+/CD66b+, and some MDSC-enriched markers are emerging, such as LOX-1 and CD84. More proteomics studies are needed to identify the signature and markers for MDSCs. Recently, we reported the induced differentiation of isogenic PMNs or MDSCs (referred to as iPMNs and iMDSCs, respectively) from the human promyelocytic cell line HL60. Here, we profiled the global proteomics and membrane proteomics of these cells with quantitative mass spectrometry, which identified a 41-protein signature ("cluster 6") that was upregulated in iMDSCs compared with HL60 and iPMN. We further integrated our cell line-based proteomics data with a published proteomics dataset of normal human primary monocytes and monocyte-derived MDSCs induced by cancer-associated fibroblasts. The analysis identified a 38-protein signature that exhibits an upregulated expression pattern in MDSCs compared with normal monocytes or PMNs. These signatures may provide a hypothesis-generating platform to identify protein biomarkers that phenotypically distinguish MDSCs from their healthy counterparts, as well as potential therapeutic targets that impair MDSCs without harming normal myeloid cells.
PXD044629	38786083	hTERT-Immortalized Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles: Large-Scale Manufacturing, Cargo Profiling, and Functional Effects in Retinal Epithelial Cells. 	hTERT mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), Stem cells  EVs LC-MS/MS	EVs, Stem cells	As the economic burden associated with vision loss and ocular damage continues to rise, there is a need to explore novel treatment strategies. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are enriched with various biological cargo, and there is abundant literature supporting the reparative and immunomodulatory properties of stem cell EVs across a broad range of pathologies. However, one area that requires further attention is the reparative effects of stem cell EVs in the context of ocular damage. Additionally, most of the literature focuses on EVs isolated from primary stem cells; the use of EVs isolated from human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT)-immortalized stem cells has not been thoroughly examined. Using our large-scale EV-manufacturing platform, we reproducibly manufactured EVs from hTERT-immortalized mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and employed various methods to characterize and profile their associated cargo. We also utilized well-established cell-based assays to compare the effects of these EVs on both healthy and damaged retinal pigment epithelial cells. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to establish proof of concept for reproducible, large-scale manufacturing of hTERT-immortalized MSC EVs and to investigate their potential reparative properties against damaged retinal cells. The results from our studies confirm that hTERT-immortalized MSC EVs exert reparative effects in vitro that are similar to those observed in primary MSC EVs. Therefore, hTERT-immortalized MSCs may represent a more consistent and reproducible platform than primary MSCs for generating EVs with therapeutic potential.
PXD045249	38786624	Volatile Organic Compounds Produced by a Deep-Sea Bacterium Efficiently Inhibit the Growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1. 	Study on the inhibitory effect and mechanism of VOCs of a deep-sea bacteria on Pseudomonas aeruginosa	pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 proteome analysis	The deep-sea bacterium Spongiibacter nanhainus CSC3.9 has significant inhibitory effects on agricultural pathogenic fungi and human pathogenic bacteria, especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the notorious multidrug-resistant pathogen affecting human public health. We demonstrate that the corresponding antibacterial agents against P. aeruginosa PAO1 are volatile organic compounds (VOCs, namely VOC-3.9). Our findings show that VOC-3.9 leads to the abnormal cell division of P. aeruginosa PAO1 by disordering the expression of several essential division proteins associated with septal peptidoglycan synthesis. VOC-3.9 hinders the biofilm formation process and promotes the biofilm dispersion process of P. aeruginosa PAO1 by affecting its quorum sensing systems. VOC-3.9 also weakens the iron uptake capability of P. aeruginosa PAO1, leading to reduced enzymatic activity associated with key metabolic processes, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging. Overall, our study paves the way to developing antimicrobial compounds against drug-resistant bacteria by using volatile organic compounds.
PXD036723	38787444	Elucidating hippocampal proteome dynamics in moderate hepatic encephalopathy rats: insights from high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Proteomic analysis of hippocampal proteins in moderate hepatic encephalopathy rat model	Rat, hepatic encephalopathy, hippocampus, label free	Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a debilitating neurological disorder associated with liver failure and characterized by impaired brain function. Decade-long studies have led to significant advances in our understanding of HE; however, effective therapeutic management of HE is lacking, and HE continues to be a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients, underscoring the need for continued research into its pathophysiology and treatment. Accordingly, the present study provides a comprehensive overview aimed at elucidating the molecular underpinnings of HE and identifying potential therapeutic targets. A moderate-grade HE model was induced in rats using thioacetamide, which simulates the liver damage observed in patients, and its impact on cognitive function, neuronal arborization, and cellular morphology was also evaluated. We employed label-free LC-MS/MS proteomics to quantitatively profile hippocampal proteins to explore the molecular mechanism of HE pathogenesis; 2175 proteins were identified, 47 of which exhibited significant alterations in moderate-grade HE. The expression of several significantly upregulated proteins, such as FAK1, CD9 and Tspan2, was further validated at the transcript and protein levels, confirming the mass spectrometry results. These proteins have not been previously reported in HE. Utilizing Metascape, a tool for gene annotation and analysis, we further studied the biological pathways integral to brain function, including gliogenesis, the role of erythrocytes in maintaining blood-brain barrier integrity, the modulation of chemical synaptic transmission, astrocyte differentiation, the regulation of organ growth, the response to cAMP, myelination, and synaptic function, which were disrupted during HE. The STRING database further elucidated the protein-protein interaction patterns among the differentially expressed proteins. This study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms driving HE and paves the way for identifying novel therapeutic targets for improved disease management.
PXD047184	38787599	Characterization of the skeletal muscle arginine methylome in health and disease reveals remodeling in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	Quantification of the skeletal muscle proteome and arginine dimethylome in human ALS	ALS, arginine dimethylation, skeletal muscle	Arginine methylation is a protein posttranslational modification important for the development of skeletal muscle mass and function. Despite this, our understanding of the regulation of arginine methylation under settings of health and disease remains largely undefined. Here, we investigated the regulation of arginine methylation in skeletal muscles in response to exercise and hypertrophic growth, and in diseases involving metabolic dysfunction and atrophy. We report a limited regulation of arginine methylation under physiological settings that promote muscle health, such as during growth and acute exercise, nor in disease models of insulin resistance. In contrast, we saw a significant remodeling of asymmetric dimethylation in models of atrophy characterized by the loss of innervation, including in muscle biopsies from patients with myotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mass spectrometry-based quantification of the proteome and asymmetric arginine dimethylome of skeletal muscle from individuals with ALS revealed the largest compendium of protein changes with the identification of 793 regulated proteins, and novel site-specific changes in asymmetric dimethyl arginine (aDMA) of key sarcomeric and cytoskeletal proteins. Finally, we show that in vivo overexpression of PRMT1 and aDMA resulted in increased fatigue resistance and functional recovery in mice. Our study provides evidence for asymmetric dimethylation as a regulator of muscle pathophysiology and presents a valuable proteomics resource and rationale for numerous methylated and nonmethylated proteins, including PRMT1, to be pursued for therapeutic development in ALS.
PXD035840	38787962	NUDCD3 deficiency disrupts V(D)J recombination to cause SCID and Omenn syndrome. 	NUDCD3 deficiency disrupts V(D)J recombination to cause SCID/Omenn syndrome	NUDCD3, Omenn syndrome, pulldown	Inborn errors of T cell development present a pediatric emergency in which timely curative therapy is informed by molecular diagnosis. In 11 affected patients across four consanguineous kindreds, we detected homozygosity for a single deleterious missense variant in the gene NudC domain-containing 3 (NUDCD3). Two infants had severe combined immunodeficiency with the complete absence of T and B cells (T( -)B(-) SCID), whereas nine showed classical features of Omenn syndrome (OS). Restricted antigen receptor gene usage by residual T lymphocytes suggested impaired V(D)J recombination. Patient cells showed reduced expression of NUDCD3 protein and diminished ability to support RAG-mediated recombination in vitro, which was associated with pathologic sequestration of RAG1 in the nucleoli. Although impaired V(D)J recombination in a mouse model bearing the homologous variant led to milder immunologic abnormalities, NUDCD3 is absolutely required for healthy T and B cell development in humans.
PXD046993	38789434	Matrix stiffening promotes chondrocyte senescence and the osteoarthritis development through downregulating HDAC3. 	Matrix stiffening promotes chondrocyte senescence and the osteoarthritis development through downregulating HDAC3	cartilago articularis,Matrix stiffness,osteoarthritis	Extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffening is a typical characteristic of cartilage aging, which is a quintessential feature of knee osteoarthritis (KOA). However, little is known about how ECM stiffening affects chondrocytes and other molecules downstream. This study mimicked the physiological and pathological stiffness of human cartilage using polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) substrates. It demonstrated that epigenetic Parkin regulation by histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) represents a new mechanosensitive mechanism by which the stiffness matrix affected chondrocyte physiology. We found that ECM stiffening accelerated cultured chondrocyte senescence in vitro, while the stiffness ECM downregulated HDAC3, prompting Parkin acetylation to activate excessive mitophagy and accelerating chondrocyte senescence and osteoarthritis (OA) in mice. Contrarily, intra-articular injection with an HDAC3-expressing adeno-associated virus restored the young phenotype of the aged chondrocytes stimulated by ECM stiffening and alleviated OA in mice. The findings indicated that changes in the mechanical ECM properties initiated pathogenic mechanotransduction signals, promoted the Parkin acetylation and hyperactivated mitophagy, and damaged chondrocyte health. These results may provide new insights into chondrocyte regulation by the mechanical properties of ECM, suggesting that the modification of the physical ECM properties may be a potential OA treatment strategy.
PXD045041	38789799	Proteomic dissection of vanishing white matter pathogenesis. 	Proteomic dissection of Vanishing white matter pathogenesis	Brain, Disease progression, Leukodystrophy, Quantitative proteomics, Vanishing white matter	Vanishing white matter (VWM) is a leukodystrophy caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B. To date, it remains unclear which factors contribute to VWM pathogenesis. Here, we investigated the basis of VWM pathogenesis using the 2b5(ho) mouse model. We first mapped the temporal proteome in the cerebellum, corpus callosum, cortex, and brainstem of 2b5(ho) and wild-type (WT) mice. Protein changes observed in 2b5(ho) mice were then cross-referenced with published proteomic datasets from VWM patient brain tissue to define alterations relevant to the human disease. By comparing 2b5(ho) mice with their region- and age-matched WT counterparts, we showed that the proteome in the cerebellum and cortex of 2b5(ho) mice was already dysregulated prior to pathology development, whereas proteome changes in the corpus callosum only occurred after pathology onset. Remarkably, protein changes in the brainstem were transient, indicating that a compensatory mechanism might occur in this region. Importantly, 2b5(ho) mouse brain proteome changes reflect features well-known in VWM. Comparison of the 2b5(ho) mouse and VWM patient brain proteomes revealed shared changes. These could represent changes that contribute to the disease or even drive its progression in patients. Taken together, we show that the 2b5(ho) mouse brain proteome is affected in a region- and time-dependent manner. We found that the 2b5(ho) mouse model partly replicates the human disease at the protein level, providing a resource to study aspects of VWM pathogenesis by highlighting alterations from early to late disease stages, and those that possibly drive disease progression.
PXD047449	38790021	Tumor necrosis factor-inducible gene 6 protein and its derived peptide ameliorate liver fibrosis by repressing CD44 activation in mice with alcohol-related liver disease. 	Co-IP/MS for determining interacting partners of TSG-6 in human pHSCs	Co-IP/MS, TSG-6, primary hepatic stellate cells	BACKGROUND: Alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) is a major health concern worldwide, but effective therapeutics for ALD are still lacking. Tumor necrosis factor-inducible gene 6 protein (TSG-6), a cytokine released from mesenchymal stem cells, was shown to reduce liver fibrosis and promote successful liver repair in mice with chronically damaged livers. However, the effect of TSG-6 and the mechanism underlying its activity in ALD remain poorly understood. METHODS: To investigate its function in ALD mice with fibrosis, male mice chronically fed an ethanol (EtOH)-containing diet for 9 weeks were treated with TSG-6 (EtOH + TSG-6) or PBS (EtOH + Veh) for an additional 3 weeks. RESULTS: Severe hepatic injury in EtOH-treated mice was markedly decreased in TSG-6-treated mice fed EtOH. The EtOH + TSG-6 group had less fibrosis than the EtOH + Veh group. Activation of cluster of differentiation 44 (CD44) was reported to promote HSC activation. CD44 and nuclear CD44 intracellular domain (ICD), a CD44 activator which were upregulated in activated HSCs and ALD mice were significantly downregulated in TSG-6-exposed mice fed EtOH. TSG-6 interacted directly with the catalytic site of MMP14, a proteolytic enzyme that cleaves CD44, inhibited CD44 cleavage to CD44ICD, and reduced HSC activation and liver fibrosis in ALD mice. In addition, a novel peptide designed to include a region that binds to the catalytic site of MMP14 suppressed CD44 activation and attenuated alcohol-induced liver injury, including fibrosis, in mice. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that TSG-6 attenuates alcohol-induced liver damage and fibrosis by blocking CD44 cleavage to CD44ICD and suggest that TSG-6 and TSG-6-mimicking peptide could be used as therapeutics for ALD with fibrosis.
PXD040804	38790632	Unravelling the Role of Candida albicans Prn1 in the Oxidative Stress Response through a Proteomics Approach. 	Proteomic analysis for the study of Prn1 function, a protein similar to pirins. Identification and quantification of proteins whose expression changes in absence of Prn1 after hydrogen peroxide exposure.	C. albicans, Human Proteome Project, Pirins, Prn1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Quantitative proteomics, oxidative stress.	Candida albicans Prn1 is a protein with an unknown function similar to mammalian Pirin. It also has orthologues in other pathogenic fungi, but not in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Prn1 highly increases its abundance in response to H2O2 treatment; thus, to study its involvement in the oxidative stress response, a C. albicans prn1increment mutant and the corresponding wild-type strain SN250 have been studied. Under H2O2 treatment, Prn1 absence led to a higher level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a lower survival rate, with a higher percentage of death by apoptosis, confirming its relevant role in oxidative detoxication. The quantitative differential proteomics studies of both strains in the presence and absence of H2O2 indicated a lower increase in proteins with oxidoreductase activity after the treatment in the prn1increment strain, as well as an increase in proteasome-activating proteins, corroborated by in vivo measurements of proteasome activity, with respect to the wild type. In addition, remarkable differences in the abundance of some transcription factors were observed between mutant and wild-type strains, e.g., Mnl1 or Nrg1, an Mnl1 antagonist. orf19.4850, a protein orthologue to S. cerevisiae Cub1, has shown its involvement in the response to H2O2 and in proteasome function when Prn1 is highly expressed in the wild type.
PXD050560	38791049	Hotspot DNA Methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) and Isocitrate Dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1/2) Mutations in Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Their Relevance as Targets for Immunotherapy. 	Hotspot DNMT3A and IDH1/2 Mutations in Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Their Relevance as Targets for Immunotherapy	DNA methyltransferase 3A, T-cell therapy, acute myeloid leukemia, cancer immunotherapy, hotspot mutation, iso-citrate dehydrogenase 2, neoantigen	DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) and isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1/2) are genes involved in epigenetic regulation, each mutated in 7-23% of patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Here, we investigated whether hotspot mutations in these genes encode neoantigens that can be targeted by immunotherapy. Five human B-lymphoblastoid cell lines expressing common HLA class I alleles were transduced with a minigene construct containing mutations that often occur in DNMT3A or IDH1/2. From these minigene-transduced cell lines, peptides were eluted from HLA class I alleles and analyzed using tandem mass spectrometry. The resulting data are available via ProteomeXchange under the identifier PXD050560. Mass spectrometry revealed an HLA-A*01:01-binding DNMT3A(R882H) peptide and an HLA-B*07:02-binding IDH2(R140Q) peptide as potential neoantigens. For these neopeptides, peptide-HLA tetramers were produced to search for specific T-cells in healthy individuals. Various T-cell clones were isolated showing specific reactivity against cell lines transduced with full-length DNMT3A(R882H) or IDH2(R140Q) genes, while cell lines transduced with wildtype genes were not recognized. One T-cell clone for DNMT3A(R882H) also reacted against patient-derived acute myeloid leukemia cells with the mutation, while patient samples without the mutation were not recognized, thereby validating the surface presentation of a DNMT3A(R882H) neoantigen that can potentially be targeted in acute myeloid leukemia via immunotherapy.
PXD050335	38791146	Multi-Omics Characterization of Colon Mucosa and Submucosa/Wall from Crohn's Disease Patients. 	Multi-Omics Characterization of Colon Mucosa and Submucosa/Wall from Crohn's Disease Patients	Crohn's disease, colon, histology, isoform, mucosa, submucosa, transcriptomics, transmural healing, wall	Crohn's disease (CD) is a subtype of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) characterized by transmural disease. The concept of transmural healing (TH) has been proposed as an indicator of deep clinical remission of CD and as a predictor of favorable treatment endpoints. Understanding the pathophysiology involved in transmural disease is critical to achieving these endpoints. However, most studies have focused on the intestinal mucosa, overlooking the contribution of the intestinal wall in Crohn's disease. Multi-omics approaches have provided new avenues for exploring the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease and identifying potential biomarkers. We aimed to use transcriptomic and proteomic technologies to compare immune and mesenchymal cell profiles and pathways in the mucosal and submucosa/wall compartments to better understand chronic refractory disease elements to achieve transmural healing. The results revealed similarities and differences in gene and protein expression profiles, metabolic mechanisms, and immune and non-immune pathways between these two compartments. Additionally, the identification of protein isoforms highlights the complex molecular mechanisms underlying this disease, such as decreased RTN4 isoforms (RTN4B2 and RTN4C) in the submucosa/wall, which may be related to the dysregulation of enteric neural processes. These findings have the potential to inform the development of novel therapeutic strategies to achieve TH.
PXD044349	38791181	Evaluation of PAC and FASP Performance: DIA-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis. 	Evaluation of PAC and FASP performance	Benchmarking, Data-Independent Acquisition, Filter-Aided Sample Preparation, Protein Aggregation Capture	The aim of this study was to compare filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) and protein aggregation capture (PAC) starting from a three-species protein mix (Human, Soybean and Pisum sativum) and two different starting amounts (1 and 10 microg). Peptide mixtures were analyzed by data-independent acquisition (DIA) and raw files were processed by three commonly used software: Spectronaut, MaxDIA and DIA-NN. Overall, the highest number of proteins (mean value of 5491) were identified by PAC (10 microg), while the lowest number (4855) was identified by FASP (1 microg). The latter experiment displayed the worst performance in terms of both specificity (0.73) and precision (0.24). Other tested conditions showed better diagnostic accuracy, with specificity values of 0.95-0.99 and precision values between 0.61 and 0.86. In order to provide guidance on the data analysis pipeline, the accuracy diagnostic of three software was investigated: (i) the highest sensitivity was obtained with Spectronaut (median of 0.67) highlighting the ability of Spectronaut to quantify low-abundance proteins, (ii) the best precision value was obtained by MaxDIA (median of 0.84), but with a reduced number of identifications compared to Spectronaut and DIA-NN data, and (iii) the specificity values were similar (between 0.93 and 0.99). The data are available on ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD044349.
PXD051211	38791231	Loss of Conserved rRNA Modifications in the Peptidyl Transferase Center Leads to Diminished Protein Synthesis and Cell Growth in Budding Yeast. 	R-protein composition of budding yeast PTC deficient  80S ribosomes	S.cerevisiae, rRNA modifications.	Ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) are extensively modified during the transcription and subsequent maturation. Three types of modifications, 2'-O-methylation of ribose moiety, pseudouridylation, and base modifications, are introduced either by a snoRNA-driven mechanism or by stand-alone enzymes. Modified nucleotides are clustered at the functionally important sites, including peptidyl transferase center (PTC). Therefore, it has been hypothesised that the modified nucleotides play an important role in ensuring the functionality of the ribosome. In this study, we demonstrate that seven 25S rRNA modifications, including four evolutionarily conserved modifications, in the proximity of PTC can be simultaneously depleted without loss of cell viability. Yeast mutants lacking three snoRNA genes (snR34, snR52, and snR65) and/or expressing enzymatically inactive variants of spb1(D52A/E679K) and nop2(C424A/C478A) were constructed. The results show that rRNA modifications in PTC contribute collectively to efficient translation in eukaryotic cells. The deficiency of seven modified nucleotides in 25S rRNA resulted in reduced cell growth, cold sensitivity, decreased translation levels, and hyperaccurate translation, as indicated by the reduced missense and nonsense suppression. The modification m(5)C2870 is crucial in the absence of the other six modified nucleotides. Thus, the pattern of rRNA-modified nucleotides around the PTC is essential for optimal ribosomal translational activity and translational fidelity.
PXD047363	38791300	Physiological and Proteomic Responses of the Tetraploid Robinia pseudoacacia L. to High CO2 Levels. 	Proteomic analysis of the physiological response of high CO2 stimulation tetraploid Robinia pseudoacacia L.	High CO2, Photosynthesis, Respiration, Robinia pseudoacacia L., Stomatal	The increase in atmospheric CO2 concentration is a significant factor in triggering global warming. CO2 is essential for plant photosynthesis, but excessive CO2 can negatively impact photosynthesis and its associated physiological and biochemical processes. The tetraploid Robinia pseudoacacia L., a superior and improved variety, exhibits high tolerance to abiotic stress. In this study, we investigated the physiological and proteomic response mechanisms of the tetraploid R. pseudoacacia under high CO2 treatment. The results of our physiological and biochemical analyses revealed that a 5% high concentration of CO2 hindered the growth and development of the tetraploid R. pseudoacacia and caused severe damage to the leaves. Additionally, it significantly reduced photosynthetic parameters such as Pn, Gs, Tr, and Ci, as well as respiration. The levels of chlorophyll (Chl a and b) and the fluorescent parameters of chlorophyll (Fm, Fv/Fm, qP, and ETR) also significantly decreased. Conversely, the levels of ROS (H2O2 and O2(.-)) were significantly increased, while the activities of antioxidant enzymes (SOD, CAT, GR, and APX) were significantly decreased. Furthermore, high CO2 induced stomatal closure by promoting the accumulation of ROS and NO in guard cells. Through a proteomic analysis, we identified a total of 1652 DAPs after high CO2 treatment. GO functional annotation revealed that these DAPs were mainly associated with redox activity, catalytic activity, and ion binding. KEGG analysis showed an enrichment of DAPs in metabolic pathways, secondary metabolite biosynthesis, amino acid biosynthesis, and photosynthetic pathways. Overall, our study provides valuable insights into the adaptation mechanisms of the tetraploid R. pseudoacacia to high CO2.
PXD051125	38791459	Comparative Proteome Profiling of Extracellular Vesicles from Three Growth Phases of Haematococcus pluvialis under High Light and Sodium Acetate Stresses. 	Haematococcus pluvialis extracellular vesicles LC-MS/MS	Haematococcus pluvialis, extracellular vesicles, three stages	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are nano-sized particles involved in intercellular communications that intrinsically possess many attributes as a modern drug delivery platform. Haematococcus pluvialis-derived EVs (HpEVs) can be potentially exploited as a high-value-added bioproduct during astaxanthin production. The encapsulation of HpEV cargo is a crucial key for the determination of their biological functions and therapeutic potentials. However, little is known about the composition of HpEVs, limiting insights into their biological properties and application characteristics. This study examined the protein composition of HpEVs from three growth phases of H. pluvialis grown under high light (350 micromol.m(-2).s(-1)) and sodium acetate (45 mM) stresses. A total of 2038 proteins were identified, the majority of which were associated with biological processes including signal transduction, cell proliferation, cell metabolism, and the cell response to stress. Comparative analysis indicated that H. pluvialis cells sort variant proteins into HpEVs at different physiological states. It was revealed that HpEVs from the early growth stage of H. pluvialis contain more proteins associated with cellular functions involved in primary metabolite, cell division, and cellular energy metabolism, while HpEVs from the late growth stage of H. pluvialis were enriched in proteins involved in cell wall synthesis and secondary metabolism. This is the first study to report and compare the protein composition of HpEVs from different growth stages of H. pluvialis, providing important information on the development and production of functional microalgal-derived EVs.
PXD050885	38791463	Lon1 Inactivation Downregulates Autophagic Flux and Brassinosteroid Biogenesis, Modulating Mitochondrial Proportion and Seed Development in Arabidopsis. 	Arabidopsis Lon1 disruption decreases autophagy flux affects seed development through brassinosteroid regulation	Lon1, UPRs, autophagy, brassinosteroid, seed	Mitochondrial protein homeostasis is crucially regulated by protein degradation processes involving both mitochondrial proteases and cytosolic autophagy. However, it remains unclear how plant cells regulate autophagy in the scenario of lacking a major mitochondrial Lon1 protease. In this study, we observed a notable downregulation of core autophagy proteins in Arabidopsis Lon1 knockout mutant lon1-1 and lon1-2, supporting the alterations in the relative proportions of mitochondrial and vacuolar proteins over total proteins in the plant cells. To delve deeper into understanding the roles of the mitochondrial protease Lon1 and autophagy in maintaining mitochondrial protein homeostasis and plant development, we generated the lon1-2atg5-1 double mutant by incorporating the loss-of-function mutation of the autophagy core protein ATG5, known as atg5-1. The double mutant exhibited a blend of phenotypes, characterized by short plants and early senescence, mirroring those observed in the individual single mutants. Accordingly, distinct transcriptome alterations were evident in each of the single mutants, while the double mutant displayed a unique amalgamation of transcriptional responses. Heightened severity, particularly evident in reduced seed numbers and abnormal embryo development, was observed in the double mutant. Notably, aberrations in protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) and oil bodies were evident in the single and double mutants. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses of genes concurrently downregulated in lon1-2, atg5-1, and lon1-2atg5-1 unveiled a significant suppression of genes associated with brassinosteroid (BR) biosynthesis and homeostasis. This downregulation likely contributes to the observed abnormalities in seed and embryo development in the mutants.
PXD046103	38791465	Plasma Proteins Associated with COVID-19 Severity in Puerto Rico. 	Protein and cytokine profiles associated with COVID-19 disease severity in Puerto Rico	COVID-19, Cahderin-13, Puerto Rico, SARS-CoV-2, plasma	Viral strains, age, and host factors are associated with variable immune responses against SARS-CoV-2 and disease severity. Puerto Ricans have a genetic mixture of races: European, African, and Native American. We hypothesized that unique host proteins/pathways are associated with COVID-19 disease severity in Puerto Rico. Following IRB approval, a total of 95 unvaccinated men and women aged 21-71 years old were recruited in Puerto Rico from 2020-2021. Plasma samples were collected from COVID-19-positive subjects (n = 39) and COVID-19-negative individuals (n = 56) during acute disease. COVID-19-positive individuals were stratified based on symptomatology as follows: mild (n = 18), moderate (n = 13), and severe (n = 8). Quantitative proteomics was performed in plasma samples using tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling. Labeled peptides were subjected to LC/MS/MS and analyzed by Proteome Discoverer (version 2.5), Limma software (version 3.41.15), and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA, version 22.0.2). Cytokines were quantified using a human cytokine array. Proteomics analyses of severely affected COVID-19-positive individuals revealed 58 differentially expressed proteins. Cadherin-13, which participates in synaptogenesis, was downregulated in severe patients and validated by ELISA. Cytokine immunoassay showed that TNF-alpha levels decreased with disease severity. This study uncovers potential host predictors of COVID-19 severity and new avenues for treatment in Puerto Ricans.
PXD051724	38792690	Multi-Omics of Campylobacter jejuni Growth in Chicken Exudate Reveals Molecular Remodelling Associated with Altered Virulence and Survival Phenotypes. 	Response of C. jejuni to various environmental conditions	Campylobacter, chicken exudate, deferroxamine, deoxycholate	Campylobacter jejuni is the leading cause of foodborne human gastroenteritis in the developed world. Infections are largely acquired from poultry produced for human consumption and poor food handling is thus a major risk factor. Chicken exudate (CE) is a liquid produced from defrosted commercial chicken products that facilitates C. jejuni growth. We examined the response of C. jejuni to growth in CE using a multi-omics approach. Changes in the C. jejuni proteome were assessed by label-based liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). We quantified 1328 and 1304 proteins, respectively, in experiments comparing 5% CE in Mueller-Hinton (MH) medium and 100% CE with MH-only controls. These proteins represent 81.8% and 80.3% of the predicted C. jejuni NCTC11168 proteome. Growth in CE induced profound remodelling of the proteome. These changes were typically conserved between 5% and 100% CE, with a greater magnitude of change observed in 100% CE. We confirmed that CE induced C. jejuni biofilm formation, as well as increasing motility and resistance against oxidative stress, consistent with changes to proteins representing those functions. Assessment of the C. jejuni metabolome showed CE also led to increased intracellular abundances of serine, proline, and lactate that were correlated with the elevated abundances of their respective transporters. Analysis of carbon source uptake showed prolonged culture supernatant retention of proline and succinate in CE-supplemented medium. Metabolomics data provided preliminary evidence for the uptake of chicken-meat-associated dipeptides. C. jejuni exposed to CE showed increased resistance to several antibiotics, including polymyxin B, consistent with changes to tripartite efflux system proteins and those involved in the synthesis of lipid A. The C. jejuni CE proteome was also characterised by very large increases in proteins associated with iron acquisition, while a decrease in proteins containing iron-sulphur clusters was also observed. Our data suggest CE is both oxygen- and iron-limiting and provide evidence of factors required for phenotypic remodelling to enable C. jejuni survival on poultry products.
PXD016870	38793033	Naive Inflammatory Proteome Profiles of Glucocorticoid Responsive Polymyalgia Rheumatica and Rheumatic Arthritis Patients-Links to Triggers and Proteomic Manifestations. 	Data in support of Inflammatory Profile of Glucocorticoid Responsive Polymyalgia Rheumatica Patients	Polymyalgia Rheumatica, Rheumatoid arthritis, biomarkers, cell free DNA, cytokines	Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology, sharing symptoms with giant cell arthritis (GCA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The pathogenic inflammatory roots are still not well understood, and there is a lack of extensive biomarker studies to explain the disease debut and post-acute phase. This study aimed to deeply analyze the serum proteome and inflammatory response of PMR patients before and after glucocorticoid treatment. We included treatment-naive PMR patients, collecting samples before and after 3 months of treatment. For comparison, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD)-naive RA patients were included and matched to healthy controls (CTL). The serum proteome was examined using label-free quantitative mass spectrometry, while inflammation levels were assessed using multiplex inflammatory cytokine and cell-free DNA assays. The serum proteomes of the four groups comprised acute phase reactants, coagulation factors, complement proteins, immunoglobulins, and apolipoproteins. Serum amyloid A (SAA1) was significantly reduced by active PMR treatment. Cell-free DNA levels in PMR and RA groups were significantly higher than in healthy controls due to acute inflammation. Complement factors had minimal changes post-treatment. The individual serum proteome in PMR patients showed over 100 abundantly variable proteins, emphasizing the systemic impact of PMR disease debut and the effect of treatment. Interleukin (IL)-6 and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) were significantly impacted by glucocorticoid treatment. Our study defines the PMR serum proteome during glucocorticoid treatment and highlights the role of SAA1, IL-6, and IFN-gamma in treatment responses. An involvement of PGLYRP2 in acute PMR could indicate a response to bacterial infection, highlighting its role in the acute phase of the immune response. The results suggest that PMR may be an aberrant response to a bacterial infection with an exacerbated IL-6 and acute phase inflammatory response and molecular attempts to limit the inflammation.
PXD051538	38793551	Identification of HLA-A*11:01 and A*02:01-Restricted EBV Peptides Using HLA Peptidomics. 	Identification of HLA-A*11:01 and A*02:01-restricted EBV Pep-tides using HLA Peptidomics	immunopeptidome	Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) is closely linked to nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), notably prevalent in southern China. Although type II latency of EBV plays a crucial role in the development of NPC, some lytic genes and intermittent reactivation are also critical for viral propagation and tumor progression. Since T cell-mediated immunity is effective in targeted killing of EBV-positive cells, it is important to identify EBV-derived peptides presented by highly prevalent human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules throughout the EBV life cycle. Here, we constructed an EBV-positive NPC cell model to evaluate the presentation of EBV lytic phase peptides on streptavidin-tagged specific HLA-I molecules. Utilizing a mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based immunopeptidomic approach, we characterized eleven novel EBV peptides as well as two previously identified peptides. Furthermore, we determined these peptides were immunogenic and could stimulate PBMCs from EBV VCA/NA-IgA positive donors in an NPC endemic southern Chinese population. Overall, this work demonstrates that highly prevalent HLA-I-specific EBV peptides can be captured and functionally presented to elicit immune responses in an in vitro model, which provides insight into the epitopes presented during EBV lytic cycle and reactivation. It expands the range of viral targets for potential NPC early diagnosis and treatment.
PXD050781	38794877	Spectral entropy as a measure of the metaproteome complexity. 	Spectral entropy as a measure of the metaproteome complexity	bioinformatics, metaproteomics, spectral entropy	The diversity and complexity of the microbiome's genomic landscape are not always mirrored in its proteomic profile. Despite the anticipated proteomic diversity, observed complexities of microbiome samples are often lower than expected. Two main factors contribute to this discrepancy: limitations in mass spectrometry's detection sensitivity and bioinformatics challenges in metaproteomics identification. This study introduces a novel approach to evaluating sample complexity directly at the full mass spectrum (MS1) level rather than relying on peptide identifications. When analyzing under identical mass spectrometry conditions, microbiome samples displayed significantly higher complexity, as evidenced by the spectral entropy and peptide candidate entropy, compared to single-species samples. The research provides solid evidence for the complexity of microbiome in proteomics indicating the optimization potential of the bioinformatics workflow.
PXD050785	38795036	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis-Associated Mutants of SOD1 Perturb mRNA Splicing through Aberrant Interactions with SRSF2. 	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis-Associated Mutants of SOD1 Perturb mRNA Splicing through Aberrant Interactions with SRSF2	ALS, Affinity pulldown, SOD1	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder that results in the degeneration of neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Although a substantial number of studies have been conducted, much remains to be learned about the cellular mechanisms underlying ALS. In this study, we employed an engineered ascorbate peroxidase (APEX)-based proximity biotinylation, together with affinity pull-down of the ensuing biotinylated peptides, to investigate the proximity proteomes of human SOD1 and its two ALS-linked mutants, G85R and G93A. We were able to identify 25 common biotinylated peptides with preferential enrichment in the proximity proteomes of SOD1(G85R) and SOD1(G93A) over wild-type SOD1. Our coimmunoprecipitation followed by Western blot analyses revealed that one of these proteins, SRSF2, binds more strongly with the two SOD1 mutants than its wild-type counterpart. We also observed aberrant splicing of mRNAs in cells with ectopic expression of the two SOD1 mutants relative to cells expressing the wild-type protein. In addition, the aberrations in splicing elicited by the SOD1 variants were markedly attenuated upon knockdown of SRSF2. Collectively, we uncovered that ALS-liked SOD1(G85R) and SOD1(G93A) mutants interact more strongly with SRSF2, where the aberrant interactions perturbed mRNA splicing. Thus, our work offered novel mechanistic insights into the contributions of the ALS-linked SOD1 mutants to disease etiology.
PXD044594	38797778	Effect of hypercholesterolemia on circulating and cardiomyocyte-derived extracellular vesicles. 	Differential regulation of metabolome and proteome of plasma and CM EVs in HC	EVs, Hypercholesterolemia, Metabolome, TimsTOF Pro	Hypercholesterolemia (HC) induces, propagates and exacerbates cardiovascular diseases via various mechanisms that are yet not properly understood. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in the pathomechanism of these diseases. To understand how circulating or cardiac-derived EVs could affect myocardial functions, we analyzed the metabolomic profile of circulating EVs, and we performed an in-depth analysis of cardiomyocyte (CM)-derived EVs in HC. Circulating EVs were isolated with Vezics technology from male Wistar rats fed with high-cholesterol or control chow. AC16 human CMs were treated with Remembrane HC supplement and EVs were isolated from cell culture supernatant. The biophysical properties and the protein composition of CM EVs were analyzed. THP1-ASC-GFP cells were treated with CM EVs, and monocyte activation was measured. HC diet reduced the amount of certain phosphatidylcholines in circulating EVs, independently of their plasma level. HC treatment significantly increased EV secretion of CMs and greatly modified CM EV proteome, enriching several proteins involved in tissue remodeling. Regardless of the treatment, CM EVs did not induce the activation of THP1 monocytes. In conclusion, HC strongly affects the metabolome of circulating EVs and dysregulates CM EVs, which might contribute to HC-induced cardiac derangements.
PXD062877	38798587	Caspase-11 drives macrophage hyperinflammation in models of Polg-related mitochondrial disease. 	Proteomic analysis of innate immune responses in Polg D257A macrophages challenged with Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Polg, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, bone marrow macrophage, innate immunity, mitochondrial dysfunction	Mitochondrial diseases (MtD) represent a significant public health challenge due to their heterogenous clinical presentation, often severe and progressive symptoms, and the lack of effective therapies. Environmental exposures, such bacterial and viral infection, can further compromise mitochondrial function and exacerbate the progression of MtD. Infections in MtD patients more frequently progress to sepsis, pneumonia, and other detrimental inflammatory endpoints. However, the underlying immune alterations that enhance immunopathology in MtD remain unclear, constituting a key gap in knowledge that complicates treatment and increases mortality in this population. Here we employ in vitro and in vivo approaches to clarify the molecular and cellular basis for innate immune hyperactivity in models of polymerase gamma (Polg)-related MtD. We reveal that type I interferon (IFN-I)-mediated upregulation of caspase-11 and guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) increase macrophage sensing of the opportunistic microbe Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) in Polg mutant mice. Furthermore, we show that excessive macrophage cytokine secretion and pyroptotic cell death contribute to lung inflammation and morbidity after infection with PA. Our work sheds new light on innate immune dysregulation in MtD and reveals potential targets for limiting infection- and inflammation-related complications in Polg-related MtD.
PXD034826	38799566	Islet cell stress induced by insulin-degrading enzyme deficiency promotes regeneration and protection from autoimmune diabetes. 	Proteomics analysis for the study of beta cell adaptation to stress in mice deficient for insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE)	autoimmunity, diabetes, glucose metabolism, protein homeostasis, unfolded protein response	Tuning of protein homeostasis through mobilization of the unfolded protein response (UPR) is key to the capacity of pancreatic beta cells to cope with variable demand for insulin. Here, we asked how insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) affects beta cell adaptation to metabolic and immune stress. C57BL/6 and autoimmune non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice lacking IDE were exposed to proteotoxic, metabolic, and immune stress. IDE deficiency induced a low-level UPR with islet hypertrophy at the steady state, rapamycin-sensitive beta cell proliferation enhanced by proteotoxic stress, and beta cell decompensation upon high-fat feeding. IDE deficiency also enhanced the UPR triggered by proteotoxic stress in human EndoC-betaH1 cells. In Ide(-/-) NOD mice, islet inflammation specifically induced regenerating islet-derived protein 2, a protein attenuating autoimmune inflammation. These findings establish a role of IDE in islet cell protein homeostasis, demonstrate how its absence induces metabolic decompensation despite beta cell proliferation, and UPR-independent islet regeneration in the presence of inflammation.
PXD048144	38799671	O-GlcNAcylation Facilitates the Interaction between Keratin 18 and Isocitrate Dehydrogenases and Potentially Influencing Cholangiocarcinoma Progression. 	Human cholangiocarcinoma LC-MS/MS	HuCCT1 cells, K18	Glycosylation plays a pivotal role in the intricate landscape of human cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), actively participating in key pathophysiological processes driving tumor progression. Among the various glycosylation modifications, O-linked beta-N-acetyl-glucosamine modification (O-GlcNAcylation) emerges as a dynamic regulator influencing diverse tumor-associated biological activities. In this study, we employed a state-of-the-art chemical proteomic approach to analyze intact glycopeptides, unveiling the critical role of O-GlcNAcylation in orchestrating Keratin 18 (K18) and its interplay with tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle enzymes, specifically isocitrate dehydrogenases (IDHs), to propel CCA progression. Our findings shed light on the mechanistic intricacies of O-GlcNAcylation, revealing that site-specific modification of K18 on Ser 30 serves as a stabilizing factor, amplifying the expression of cell cycle checkpoints. This molecular event intricately fosters cell cycle progression and augments cellular growth in CCA. Notably, the interaction between O-GlcNAcylated K18 and IDHs orchestrates metabolic reprogramming by down-regulating citrate and isocitrate levels while elevating alpha-ketoglutarate (alpha-KG). These metabolic shifts further contribute to the overall tumorigenic potential of CCA. Our study thus expands the current understanding of protein O-GlcNAcylation and introduces a new layer of complexity to post-translational control over metabolism and tumorigenesis.
PXD045482	38802340	Proximal protein landscapes of the type I interferon signaling cascade reveal negative regulation by PJA2. 	Proximal proteins of the type I interferon signaling cascade	IFN, JAK/STAT, TurboID, interferon, proximity labeling	Deciphering the intricate dynamic events governing type I interferon (IFN) signaling is critical to unravel key regulatory mechanisms in host antiviral defense. Here, we leverage TurboID-based proximity labeling coupled with affinity purification-mass spectrometry to comprehensively map the proximal human proteomes of all seven canonical type I IFN signaling cascade members under basal and IFN-stimulated conditions. This uncovers a network of 103 high-confidence proteins in close proximity to the core members IFNAR1, IFNAR2, JAK1, TYK2, STAT1, STAT2, and IRF9, and validates several known constitutive protein assemblies, while also revealing novel stimulus-dependent and -independent associations between key signaling molecules. Functional screening further identifies PJA2 as a negative regulator of IFN signaling via its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. Mechanistically, PJA2 interacts with TYK2 and JAK1, promotes their non-degradative ubiquitination, and limits the activating phosphorylation of TYK2 thereby restraining downstream STAT signaling. Our high-resolution proximal protein landscapes provide global insights into the type I IFN signaling network, and serve as a valuable resource for future exploration of its functional complexities.
PXD046328	38802345	A multi-platform analysis of human gingival crevicular fluid reveals ferroptosis as a relevant regulated cell death mechanism during the clinical progression of periodontitis. 	Human Gingival Crevicular Fluid Reveals the Occurrence of Ferroptosis During Clinical Progression of Periodontitis	Crevicular Fluid, Disease progression, Periodontitis	Ferroptosis is implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous chronic-inflammatory diseases, yet its association with progressive periodontitis remains unexplored. To investigate the involvement and significance of ferroptosis in periodontitis progression, we assessed sixteen periodontitis-diagnosed patients. Disease progression was clinically monitored over twelve weeks via weekly clinical evaluations and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) collection was performed for further analyses. Clinical metrics, proteomic data, in silico methods, and bioinformatics tools were combined to identify protein profiles linked to periodontitis progression and to explore their potential connection with ferroptosis. Subsequent western blot analyses validated key findings. Finally, a single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) dataset (GSE164241) for gingival tissues was analyzed to elucidate cellular dynamics during periodontitis progression. Periodontitis progression was identified as occurring at a faster rate than traditionally thought. GCF samples from progressing and non-progressing periodontal sites showed quantitative and qualitatively distinct proteomic profiles. In addition, specific biological processes and molecular functions during progressive periodontitis were revealed and a set of hub proteins, including SNCA, CA1, HBB, SLC4A1, and ANK1 was strongly associated with the clinical progression status of periodontitis. Moreover, we found specific proteins - drivers or suppressors - associated with ferroptosis (SNCA, FTH1, HSPB1, CD44, and GCLC), revealing the co-occurrence of this specific type of regulated cell death during the clinical progression of periodontitis. Additionally, the integration of quantitative proteomic data with scRNA-seq analysis suggested the susceptibility of fibroblasts to ferroptosis. Our analyses reveal proteins and processes linked to ferroptosis for the first time in periodontal patients, which offer new insights into the molecular mechanisms of progressive periodontal disease. These findings may lead to novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
PXD041873	38802361	Proteomic analysis of the urothelial cancer landscape. 	Proteomic Analysis of the Urothelial Cancer Landscape	Biomarker, FFPE, Proteomic Classification, Tissue, Urothelial Cance	Urothelial bladder cancer (UC) has a wide tumor biological spectrum with challenging prognostic stratification and relevant therapy-associated morbidity. Most molecular classifications relate only indirectly to the therapeutically relevant protein level. We improve the pre-analytics of clinical samples for proteome analyses and characterize a cohort of 434 samples with 242 tumors and 192 paired normal mucosae covering the full range of UC. We evaluate sample-wise tumor specificity and rank biomarkers by target relevance. We identify robust proteomic subtypes with prognostic information independent from histopathological groups. In silico drug prediction suggests efficacy of several compounds hitherto not in clinical use. Both in silico and in vitro data indicate predictive value of the proteomic clusters for these drugs. We underline that proteomics is relevant for personalized oncology and provide abundance and tumor specificity data for a large part of the UC proteome ( www.cancerproteins.org ).
PXD047820	38802379	Enhancing mass spectrometry imaging accessibility using convolutional autoencoders for deriving hypoxia-associated peptides from tumors. 	Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) combined with LC-MS/MS data from head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) xenograft samples to map peptide information	HNSCC xenografts, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry imaging	Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) allows to study cancer's intratumoral heterogeneity through spatially-resolved peptides, metabolites and lipids. Yet, in biomedical research MSI is rarely used for biomarker discovery. Besides its high dimensionality and multicollinearity, mass spectrometry (MS) technologies typically output mass-to-charge ratio values but not the biochemical compounds of interest. Our framework makes particularly low-abundant signals in MSI more accessible. We utilized convolutional autoencoders to aggregate features associated with tumor hypoxia, a parameter with significant spatial heterogeneity, in cancer xenograft models. We highlight that MSI captures these low-abundant signals and that autoencoders can preserve them in their latent space. The relevance of individual hyperparameters is demonstrated through ablation experiments, and the contribution from original features to latent features is unraveled. Complementing MSI with tandem MS from the same tumor model, multiple hypoxia-associated peptide candidates were derived. Compared to random forests alone, our autoencoder approach yielded more biologically relevant insights for biomarker discovery.
PXD045714	38803161	Proteomics of tumor and serum samples from isocitrate dehydrogenase-wildtype glioblastoma patients: is the detoxification of reactive oxygen species associated with shorter survival? 	Proteomics of tumor and serum samples from isocitrate dehydrogenase-wildtype glioblastoma patients: is the detoxification of reactive oxygen species associated with shorter survival?	DIA-MS, Tims-Tof-Pro, glioblastoma, survival	Proteomics has been little used for the identification of novel prognostic and/or therapeutic markers in isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-wildtype glioblastoma (GB). In this study, we analyzed 50 tumor and 30 serum samples from short- and long-term survivors of IDH-wildtype GB (STS and LTS, respectively) by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS)-based proteomics, with the aim of identifying such markers. DIA-MS identified 5422 and 826 normalized proteins in tumor and serum samples, respectively, with only three tumor proteins and 26 serum proteins displaying significant differential expression between the STS and LTS groups. These dysregulated proteins were principally associated with the detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In particular, GB patients in the STS group had high serum levels of malate dehydrogenase 1 (MDH1) and ribonuclease inhibitor 1 (RNH1) and low tumor levels of fatty acid-binding protein 7 (FABP7), which may have enabled them to maintain low ROS levels, counteracting the effects of the first-line treatment with radiotherapy plus concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide. A blood score built on the levels of MDH1 and RNH1 expression was found to be an independent prognostic factor for survival based on the serum proteome data for a cohort of 96 IDH-wildtype GB patients. This study highlights the utility of circulating MDH1 and RNH1 biomarkers for determining the prognosis of patients with IDH-wildtype GB. Furthermore, the pathways driven by these biomarkers, and the tumor FABP7 pathway, may constitute promising therapeutic targets for blocking ROS detoxification to overcome resistance to chemoradiotherapy in potential GB STS.
PXD050969	38804617	Integrative multiomics analysis identifies molecular subtypes and potential targets of hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Multi-omics reveal the segmentation atlas of hepatocellular carcinoma	HCC, multi-omics, segmentation atlas	BACKGROUND: The liver is anatomically divided into eight segments based on the distribution of Glisson's triad. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying each segment and its association with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) heterogeneity are not well understood. In this study, our objective is to conduct a comprehensive multiomics profiling of the segmentation atlas in order to investigate potential subtypes and therapeutic approaches for HCC. METHODS: A high throughput liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometer strategy was employed to comprehensively analyse proteome, lipidome and metabolome data, with a focus on segment-resolved multiomics profiling. To classify HCC subtypes, the obtained data with normal reference profiling were integrated. Additionally, potential therapeutic targets for HCC were identified using immunohistochemistry assays. The effectiveness of these targets were further validated through patient-derived organoid (PDO) assays. RESULTS: A multiomics profiling of 8536 high-confidence proteins, 1029 polar metabolites and 3381 nonredundant lipids was performed to analyse the segmentation atlas of HCC. The analysis of the data revealed that in normal adjacent tissues, the left lobe was primarily involved in energy metabolism, while the right lobe was associated with small molecule metabolism. Based on the normal reference atlas, HCC patients with segment-resolved classification were divided into three subtypes. The C1 subtype showed enrichment in ribosome biogenesis, the C2 subtype exhibited an intermediate phenotype, while the C3 subtype was closely associated with neutrophil degranulation. Furthermore, using the PDO assay, exportin 1 (XPO1) and 5-lipoxygenase (ALOX5) were identified as potential targets for the C1 and C3 subtypes, respectively. CONCLUSION: Our extensive analysis of the segmentation atlas in multiomics profiling defines molecular subtypes of HCC and uncovers potential therapeutic strategies that have the potential to enhance the prognosis of HCC.
PXD044156	38805257	ESAT-6 undergoes self-association at phagosomal pH and an ESAT-6-specific nanobody restricts M. tuberculosis growth in macrophages. 	HDX-MS epitope mapping of ESAT6 with rvES6	ESAT6, HDX-MS, rvES6	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is known to survive within macrophages by compromising the integrity of the phagosomal compartment in which it resides. This activity primarily relies on the ESX-1 secretion system, predominantly involving the protein duo ESAT-6 and CFP-10. CFP-10 likely acts as a chaperone, while ESAT-6 likely disrupts phagosomal membrane stability via a largely unknown mechanism. we employ a series of biochemical analyses, protein modeling techniques, and a novel ESAT-6-specific nanobody to gain insight into the ESAT-6's mode of action. First, we measure the binding kinetics of the tight 1:1 complex formed by ESAT-6 and CFP-10 at neutral pH. Subsequently, we demonstrate a rapid self-association of ESAT-6 into large complexes under acidic conditions, leading to the identification of a stable tetrameric ESAT-6 species. Using molecular dynamics simulations, we pinpoint the most probable interaction interface. Furthermore, we show that cytoplasmic expression of an anti-ESAT-6 nanobody blocks Mtb replication, thereby underlining the pivotal role of ESAT-6 in intracellular survival. Together, these data suggest that ESAT-6 acts by a pH-dependent mechanism to establish two-way communication between the cytoplasm and the Mtb-containing phagosome.
PXD050622	38805275	Neuronal differentiation requires BRAT1 complex to remove REST from chromatin. 	Neuronal differentiation requires BRAT1 complex to remove REST from chromatin	BRAT1, Integrator, neuronal differentiation	Repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) is required for the formation of mature neurons. REST dysregulation underlies a key mechanism of neurodegeneration associated with neurological disorders. However, the mechanisms leading to alterations of REST-mediated silencing of key neurogenesis genes are not known. Here, we show that BRCA1 Associated ATM Activator 1 (BRAT1), a gene linked to neurodegenerative diseases, is required for the activation of REST-responsive genes during neuronal differentiation. We find that INTS11 and INTS9 subunits of Integrator complex interact with BRAT1 as a distinct trimeric complex to activate critical neuronal genes during differentiation. BRAT1 depletion results in persistence of REST residence on critical neuronal genes disrupting the differentiation of NT2 cells into astrocytes and neuronal cells. We identified BRAT1 and INTS11 co-occupying the promoter region of these genes and pinpoint a role for BRAT1 in recruiting INTS11 to their promoters. Disease-causing mutations in BRAT1 diminish its association with INTS11/INTS9, linking the manifestation of disease phenotypes with a defect in transcriptional activation of key neuronal genes by BRAT1/INTS11/INTS9 complex. Finally, loss of Brat1 in mouse embryonic stem cells leads to a defect in neuronal differentiation assay. Importantly, while reconstitution with wild-type BRAT1 restores neuronal differentiation, the addition of a BRAT1 mutant is unable to associate with INTS11/INTS9 and fails to rescue the neuronal phenotype. Taken together, our study highlights the importance of BRAT1 association with INTS11 and INTS9 in the development of the nervous system.
PXD048997	38805380	Characterization of CsUGT73AC15 as a Multifunctional Glycosyltransferase Impacting Flavonol Triglycoside Biosynthesis in Tea Plants. 	Proteomics analysis of three tea cultivars	Camellia sinensis, flavonoid metabolism, tea plants	Flavonol glycosides, contributing to the health benefits and distinctive flavors of tea (Camellia sinensis), accumulate predominantly as diglycosides and triglycosides in tea leaves. However, the UDP-glycosyltransferases (UGTs) mediating flavonol multiglycosylation remain largely uncharacterized. In this study, we employed an integrated proteomic and metabolomic strategy to identify and characterize key UGTs involved in flavonol triglycoside biosynthesis. The recombinant rCsUGT75AJ1 exhibited flavonoid 4'-O-glucosyltransferase activity, while rCsUGT75L72 preferentially catalyzed 3-OH glucosylation. Notably, rCsUGT73AC15 displayed substrate promiscuity and regioselectivity, enabling glucosylation of rutin at multiple sites and kaempferol 3-O-rutinoside (K3R) at the 7-OH position. Kinetic analysis revealed rCsUGT73AC15's high affinity for rutin (Km = 9.64 muM). Across cultivars, CsUGT73AC15 expression inversely correlated with rutin levels. Moreover, transient CsUGT73AC15 silencing increased rutin and K3R accumulation while decreasing their respective triglycosides in tea plants. This study offers new mechanistic insights into the key roles of UGTs in regulating flavonol triglycosylation in tea plants.
PXD049277	38806566	Characterization and application of recombinant Bovine Leukemia Virus Env protein. 	Characterization of Bovine Leukemia Virus Env protein soluble ectodomain expressed in Drosophila S2 cells	Drosophila, EnV, glycosylation	The Bovine Leukemia Virus (BLV) Envelope (Env) glycoprotein complex is instrumental in viral infectivity and shapes the host's immune response. This study presents the production and characterization of a soluble furin-mutated BLV Env ectodomain (sBLV-EnvFm) expressed in a stable S2 insect cell line. We purified a 63 kDa soluble protein, corresponding to the monomeric sBLV-EnvFm, which predominantly presented oligomannose and paucimannose N-glycans, with a high content of core fucose structures. Our results demonstrate that our recombinant protein can be recognized from specific antibodies in BLV infected cattle, suggesting its potential as a powerful diagnostic tool. Moreover, the robust humoral immune response it elicited in mice shows its potential contribution to the development of subunit-based vaccines against BLV.
PXD050258	38806671	Mycobacterium tuberculosis produces D-serine under hypoxia to limit CD8(+) T cell-dependent immunity in mice. 	Mycobacterium tuberculosis produces D-serine under hypoxia to limit CD8+ T cell-dependent immunity in mice	CD8+ T cell, D-serine, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Rv0884c, WDR24, mTORC1	Adaptation to hypoxia is a major challenge for the survival of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) in vivo. Interferon (IFN)-gamma-producing CD8(+) T cells contribute to control of Mtb infection, in part by promoting antimicrobial activities of macrophages. Whether Mtb counters these responses, particularly during hypoxic conditions, remains unknown. Using metabolomic, proteomic and genetic approaches, here we show that Mtb induced Rv0884c (SerC), an Mtb phosphoserine aminotransferase, to produce D-serine. This activity increased Mtb pathogenesis in mice but did not directly affect intramacrophage Mtb survival. Instead, D-serine inhibited IFN-gamma production by CD8(+) T cells, which indirectly reduced the ability of macrophages to restrict Mtb upon co-culture. Mechanistically, D-serine interacted with WDR24 and inhibited mTORC1 activation in CD8(+) T cells. This decreased T-bet expression and reduced IFN-gamma production by CD8(+) T cells. Our findings suggest an Mtb evasion mechanism where pathogen metabolic adaptation to hypoxia leads to amino acid-dependent suppression of adaptive anti-TB immunity.
PXD050782	38807192	Protein homeostasis maintained by HOOK1 levels promotes the tumorigenic and stemness properties of ovarian cancer cells through reticulum stress and autophagy. 	Protein homeostasis maintained by HOOK1 levels promotes the tumorigenic and stemness properties of ovarian cancer cells through reticulum stress and autophagy	autophagy, cancer stem cells, cell death, endoplasmic reticulum stress, ovarian cancer	BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer has a high mortality rate mainly due to its resistance to currently used therapies. This resistance has been associated with the presence of cancer stem cells (CSCs), interactions with the microenvironment, and intratumoral heterogeneity. Therefore, the search for new therapeutic targets, particularly those targeting CSCs, is important for improving patient prognosis. HOOK1 has been found to be transcriptionally altered in a substantial percentage of ovarian tumors, but its role in tumor initiation and development is still not fully understood. METHODS: The downregulation of HOOK1 was performed in ovarian cancer cell lines using CRISPR/Cas9 technology, followed by growth in vitro and in vivo assays. Subsequently, migration (Boyden chamber), cell death (Western-Blot and flow cytometry) and stemness properties (clonal heterogeneity analysis, tumorspheres assay and flow cytometry) of the downregulated cell lines were analysed. To gain insights into the specific mechanisms of action of HOOK1 in ovarian cancer, a proteomic analysis was performed, followed by Western-blot and cytotoxicity assays to confirm the results found within the mass spectrometry. Immunofluorescence staining, Western-blotting and flow cytometry were also employed to finish uncovering the role of HOOK1 in ovarian cancer. RESULTS: In this study, we observed that reducing the levels of HOOK1 in ovarian cancer cells reduced in vitro growth and migration and prevented tumor formation in vivo. Furthermore, HOOK1 reduction led to a decrease in stem-like capabilities in these cells, which, however, did not seem related to the expression of genes traditionally associated with this phenotype. A proteome study, along with other analysis, showed that the downregulation of HOOK1 also induced an increase in endoplasmic reticulum stress levels in these cells. Finally, the decrease in stem-like properties observed in cells with downregulated HOOK1 could be explained by an increase in cell death in the CSC population within the culture due to endoplasmic reticulum stress by the unfolded protein response. CONCLUSION: HOOK1 contributes to maintaining the tumorigenic and stemness properties of ovarian cancer cells by preserving protein homeostasis and could be considered an alternative therapeutic target, especially in combination with inducers of endoplasmic reticulum or proteotoxic stress such as proteasome inhibitors.
PXD046891	38807304	Loss of p14 diminishes immunogenicity in melanoma via non-canonical Wnt signaling by reducing the peptide surface density. 	Loss of p14 reduces immunogenicity in melanoma by affecting the peptide surface density via non-canonical Wnt signaling	HLA, differnetiation antigen, human immunopeptidome, melanoma	Immunotherapy has achieved tremendous success in melanoma. However, only around 50% of advanced melanoma patients benefit from immunotherapy. Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A), encoding the two tumor-suppressor proteins p14(ARF) and p16(INK4a), belongs to the most frequently inactivated gene loci in melanoma and leads to decreased T cell infiltration. While the role of p16(INK4a) has been extensively investigated, knowledge about p14(ARF) in melanoma is scarce. In this study, we elucidate the impact of reduced p14(ARF) expression on melanoma immunogenicity. Knockdown of p14(ARF) in melanoma cell lines diminished their recognition and killing by melanoma differentiation antigen (MDA)-specific T cells. Resistance was caused by a reduction of the peptide surface density of presented MDAs. Immunopeptidomic analyses revealed that antigen presentation via human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules was enhanced upon p14(ARF) downregulation in general, but absolute and relative expression of cognate peptides was decreased. However, this phenotype is associated with a favorable outcome for melanoma patients. Limiting Wnt5a signaling reverted this phenotype, suggesting an involvement of non-canonical Wnt signaling. Taken together, our data indicate a new mechanism limiting MDA-specific T cell responses by decreasing both absolute and relative MDA-peptide presentation in melanoma.
PXD052400	38807366	Non-transcriptional regulatory activity of SMAX1 and SMXL2 mediates karrikin-regulated seedling response to red light in Arabidopsis. 	SMAX1/SMXL2 interacting proteins in Arabidopsis seedling through IP-MS	IP-MS, Karrikin, SMAX1, SMXL2, Seedling	Karrikins and strigolactones govern plant development and environmental responses through closely related signaling pathways. The transcriptional repressor proteins SUPPRESSOR OF MAX2 1 (SMAX1), SMAX1-like2 (SMXL2), and D53-like SMXLs, mediate karrikin and strigolactone signaling through direct binding downstream genes or by inhibiting the activities of transcription factors. In this study, we characterized the non-transcriptional regulatory activities of SMXL proteins in Arabidopsis. We discovered that SMAX1 and SMXL2 with mutations in their ethylene-response factor-associated amphiphilic repression (EAR) motif had undetected or weak transcriptional repression activities, but can still partially rescued the hypocotyl elongation defects and fully reversed the cotyledon epinasty defects of smax1 smxl2 mutant. SMAX1 and SMXL2 directly interacted with PHYTOCHROME INTERACTION FACTOR 4 (PIF4) and PIF5 and enhanced the protein stability of PIF4 and PIF5 by interacting with phytochrome B (phyB) and suppressing the association of phyB with PIF4 and PIF5. The karrikin-responsive genes were further identified by treatment with GR24(ent-5DS), a GR24 analog showing karrikin activity. Interestingly, INDOLE-3-ACETIC ACID INDUCIBLE 29 (IAA29) expression was repressed by GR24(ent-5DS) treatment in a PIF4- and PIF5-dependent and EAR-independent manner, whereas KARRIKIN UPREGULATED F-BOX 1 (KUF1) expression was induced in a PIF4- and PIF5-independent and EAR-dependent manner. Furthermore, the non-transcriptional regulatory activity of SMAX1 that is independent of the EAR motif had a global effect on gene expression. Taken together, these results reveal that the non-transcriptional regulatory activities of SMAX1 and SMXL2 mediates the karrikin-regulated seedling response to red light.
PXD040121	38807532	Metaproteomic analysis of King Ghezo tomb wall (Abomey, Benin) confirms 19th century voodoo sacrifices. 	Metaproteomic analysis of King Ghezo's tomb wall	archaeology, human blood, metaproteomics, paleoproteomics, proteotyping, tandem mass spectrometry, traces	The palace of King Ghezo in Abomey, capital of the ancient kingdom of Dahomey (present-day Benin), houses two sacred huts which are specific funerary structures. It is claimed that the binder in their walls is made of human blood. In the study presented here, we conceived an original strategy to analyze the proteins present on minute amounts of the cladding sampled from the inner facade of the cenotaph wall and establish their origin. The extracted proteins were proteolyzed and the resulting peptides were characterized by high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry. Over 6397 distinct molecular entities were identified using cascading searches. Starting from without a priori searches of an extended generic database, the peptide repertoire was narrowed down to the most representative organisms-identified by means of taxon-specific peptides. A wide diversity of bacteria, fungi, plants, and animals were detected through the available protein material. This inventory was used to archaeologically reconstruct the voodoo rituals of consecration and maintenance of vitality. Several indicators attested to the presence of traces of human and poultry blood in the material taken. This study shows the essential advantages of paleoproteomics and metaproteomics for the study of ancient residues from archaeological excavations or historical monuments.
PXD037925	38808120	Pairing metagenomics and metaproteomics to characterize ecological niches and metabolic essentiality of gut microbiomes. 	In-vitro human gut microbiota culture with added sugars	human gut microbiome, in vitro study, metaproteomics	The genome of a microorganism encodes its potential functions that can be implemented through expressed proteins. It remains elusive how a protein's selective expression depends on its metabolic essentiality to microbial growth or its ability to claim resources as ecological niches. To reveal a protein's metabolic or ecological role, we developed a computational pipeline, which pairs metagenomics and metaproteomics data to quantify each protein's gene-level and protein-level functional redundancy simultaneously. We first illustrated the idea behind the pipeline using simulated data of a consumer-resource model. We then validated it using real data from human and mouse gut microbiome samples. In particular, we analyzed ABC-type transporters and ribosomal proteins, confirming that the metabolic and ecological roles predicted by our pipeline agree well with prior knowledge. Finally, we performed in vitro cultures of a human gut microbiome sample and investigated how oversupplying various sugars involved in ecological niches influences the community structure and protein abundance. The presented results demonstrate the performance of our pipeline in identifying proteins' metabolic and ecological roles, as well as its potential to help us design nutrient interventions to modulate the human microbiome.
PXD036637	38808567	Analysis of sulfide signaling in rice highlights specific drought responses. 	Label Free MS quantitation of rice Oryza sativa (control vs drought)	LC-MS, Label-free quantitation, Oryza sativa	Hydrogen sulfide regulates essential plant processes, including adaptation responses to stress situations, and the best characterized mechanism of action of sulfide consists of the posttranslational modification of persulfidation. In this study, we reveal the first persulfidation proteome described in rice including 3443 different persulfidated proteins that participate in a broad range of biological processes and metabolic pathways. In addition, comparative proteomics revealed specific proteins involved in sulfide signaling during drought responses. Several proteins involved in the maintenance of cellular redox homeostasis, the TCA cycle and energy-related pathways, and ion transmembrane transport and cellular water homeostasis, highlighting the aquaporin family, showed the highest differential levels of persulfidation. We revealed that water transport activity is regulated by sulfide which correlates to an increasing level of persulfidation of aquaporins. Our findings emphasize the impact of persulfidation on total ATP levels, fatty acid composition, ROS levels, antioxidant enzymatic activities, and relative water content. Interestingly, the persulfidation role on aquaporin transport activity as an adaptation response in rice differs from the current knowledge in Arabidopsis, which emphasizes the distinct role of sulfide improving rice tolerance to drought.
PXD047054	38808673	LowTempGAL: a highly responsive low temperature-inducible GAL system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Proteomics analysis of humulene-producing yeast integrated with a low temeprature-inducible GAL circuit for pathway induction	Saccharomyces cerevisiae, humulene production, low-temperature cultivation, low-temperature-inducible GAL circuit	Temperature is an important control factor for biologics biomanufacturing in precision fermentation. Here, we explored a highly responsive low temperature-inducible genetic system (LowTempGAL) in the model yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Two temperature biosensors, a heat-inducible degron and a heat-inducible protein aggregation domain, were used to regulate the GAL activator Gal4p, rendering the leaky LowTempGAL systems. Boolean-type induction was achieved by implementing a second-layer control through low-temperature-mediated repression on GAL repressor gene GAL80, but suffered delayed response to low-temperature triggers and a weak response at 30degreesC. Application potentials were validated for protein and small molecule production. Proteomics analysis suggested that residual Gal80p and Gal4p insufficiency caused suboptimal induction. 'Turbo' mechanisms were engineered through incorporating a basal Gal4p expression and a galactose-independent Gal80p-supressing Gal3p mutant (Gal3Cp). Varying Gal3Cp configurations, we deployed the LowTempGAL systems capable for a rapid stringent high-level induction upon the shift from a high temperature (37-33degreesC) to a low temperature (<=30degreesC). Overall, we present a synthetic biology procedure that leverages 'leaky' biosensors to deploy highly responsive Boolean-type genetic circuits. The key lies in optimisation of the intricate layout of the multi-factor system. The LowTempGAL systems may be applicable in non-conventional yeast platforms for precision biomanufacturing.
PXD049389	38809816	Expression in poplar of dehydroshikimate dehydratase induces transcriptional and metabolic changes in the phenylpropanoid pathway. 	Lignin engineering in poplar via heterologous expression of dehydroshikimate dehydratase induces distinct transcriptional and metabolic changes in the shikimate and phenylpropanoid pathways	Aromatics, RNA-seq, bioenergy, cell wall, lignin, metabolomics, poplar, systems biology	Modification of lignin in feedstocks via genetic engineering aims to reduce biomass recalcitrance to facilitate efficient conversion processes. These improvements can be achieved by expressing exogenous enzymes that interfere with native biosynthetic pathways responsible for the production of the lignin precursors. In-planta expression of a 3-dehydroshikimate dehydratase (QsuB) in poplar trees reduced lignin content and altered their monomer composition, which enabled higher yields of sugars after cell wall polysaccharide hydrolysis. Understanding how plants respond to such genetic modifications at the transcriptional and metabolic levels is needed to facilitate further improvement and field deployment. In this work, we amassed fundamental knowledge on lignin-modified QsuB poplar using RNA-seq and metabolomics. The data clearly demonstrate that changes in gene expression and metabolite abundance can occur in a strict spatiotemporal fashion, revealing tissue-specific responses in the xylem, phloem, or periderm. In the poplar line that exhibits the strongest reduction in lignin, we found that 3% of the transcripts had altered expression levels and ~19% of the detected metabolites had differential abundance in the xylem from older stems. Changes affect predominantly the shikimate and phenylpropanoid pathways as wells as secondary cell wall metabolism, and result in significant accumulation of hydroxybenzoates derived from protocatechuate and salicylate.
PXD052355	38810258	AMPK Drives both Glycolytic and Oxidative Metabolism in Murine and Human T Cells During Graft-versus-host Disease. 	AMPK metabolics in T cells during GVHD	AMPK, graft-versus-host	Allogeneic T cells reprogram their metabolism during acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in a process involving the cellular energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Deletion of AMPK in donor T cells limits GVHD but still preserves homeostatic reconstitution and graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effects. In the current studies, murine AMPK KO T cells decreased oxidative metabolism at early timepoints post-transplant and lacked a compensatory increase in glycolysis following inhibition of the electron transport chain. Immunoprecipitation using an antibody specific to phosphorylated targets of AMPK determined that AMPK modified interactions of several glycolytic enzymes including aldolase, enolase, pyruvate kinase M (PKM), and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and enzyme assays indicated impaired aldolase and GAPDH activity in AMPK KO T cells. Importantly, these changes in glycolysis correlated with both an impaired ability of AMPK KO T cells to produce significant amounts of interferon gamma (IFNgamma) upon antigenic re-stimulation and a decrease in the total number of donor CD4 T cells recovered at later time points post-transplant. Human T cells lacking AMPK gave similar results, with glycolytic compensation impaired both in vitro and following expansion in vivo. GVHD results also mirrored those of the murine model, with reduced CD4/CD8 ratios and a significant improvement in disease severity. Together these data highlight a significant role for AMPK in controlling oxidative and glycolytic metabolism in both murine and human T cells and endorse further study of AMPK inhibition as a potential clinical target for future GVHD therapies.
PXD048670	38810695	Enhanced Proteomic Coverage in Tissue Microenvironment by Immune Cell Subtype Library-assisted DIA-MS. 	Enhanced Proteomic Coverage in Tissue Microenvironment by Immune Cell Subtype Library-assisted DIA-MS	Data-independent acquisition, Tumor microenvironment	Immune cells that infiltrate the tumor microenvironment (TME) play crucial roles in shaping cancer development and influencing clinical outcomes and therapeutic responses. However, obtaining a comprehensive proteomic snapshot of tumor-infiltrating immunity in clinical specimens is often hindered by small sample amounts and a low proportion of immune infiltrating cells in the TME. To enable in-depth and highly sensitive profiling of microscale tissues, we established an immune cell-enriched library-assisted strategy for data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS). Firstly, 6 immune cell subtype-specific spectral libraries were established from sorted CD8(+), CD4(+) T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes, natural killer cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages in murine mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs), covering 7,815 protein groups with surface markers and immune cell-enriched proteins. The feasibility of microscale immune proteomic profiling was demonstrated on 1 mug tissue protein from the tumor of murine colorectal cancer (CRC) models using single-shot DIA; the immune cell-enriched library increased coverage to quantify 7,419 proteins compared to directDIA analysis (6,978 proteins). The enhancement enabled the mapping of 841 immune function-related proteins and exclusive identification of many low-abundant immune proteins, such as CD1D1, and CD244, demonstrating high sensitivity for immune landscape profiling. This approach was employed to characterize the MLNs in CRC models, aiming to elucidate the mechanism underlying their involvement in cancer development within the TME. Even with a low percentage of immune cell infiltration (0.25-3%) in the tumor, our results illuminate down-regulation in the adaptive immune signaling pathways (C-type lectin receptor signaling, chemokine signaling, etc.), T cell receptor signaling, and Th1/Th2/Th17 cell differentiation, suggesting an immunosuppressive status in MLNs of CRC models. The DIA approach using the immune cell-enriched libraries showcased deep coverage and high sensitivity that can facilitate illumination of the immune proteomic landscape for microscale samples.
PXD049370	38811035	A role for the S4-domain containing protein YlmH in ribosome-associated quality control in Bacillus subtilis. 	The S4-domain containing protein YlmH is involved in ribosome-associated quality control in Bacillus subtilis	YlmH, quality control, translation	Ribosomes trapped on mRNAs during protein synthesis need to be rescued for the cell to survive. The most ubiquitous bacterial ribosome rescue pathway is trans-translation mediated by tmRNA and SmpB. Genetic inactivation of trans-translation can be lethal, unless ribosomes are rescued by ArfA or ArfB alternative rescue factors or the ribosome-associated quality control (RQC) system, which in Bacillus subtilis involves MutS2, RqcH, RqcP and Pth. Using transposon sequencing in a trans-translation-incompetent B. subtilis strain we identify a poorly characterized S4-domain-containing protein YlmH as a novel potential RQC factor. Cryo-EM structures reveal that YlmH binds peptidyl-tRNA-50S complexes in a position analogous to that of S4-domain-containing protein RqcP, and that, similarly to RqcP, YlmH can co-habit with RqcH. Consistently, we show that YlmH can assume the role of RqcP in RQC by facilitating the addition of poly-alanine tails to truncated nascent polypeptides. While in B. subtilis the function of YlmH is redundant with RqcP, our taxonomic analysis reveals that in multiple bacterial phyla RqcP is absent, while YlmH and RqcH are present, suggesting that in these species YlmH plays a central role in the RQC.
PXD048798	38813097	Activity-based protein profiling of serine hydrolases and penicillin-binding proteins in Enterococcus faecium. 	FP-biotin enrichment of serine hydrolases in Enterococcus faecium	Activity-based protein profiling, Enterococcus faecium, FP-biotin, serine hydrolases	Enterococcus faecium is a gut commensal bacterium which is gaining increasing relevance as an opportunistic, nosocomial pathogen. Its high level of intrinsic and acquired antimicrobial resistance is causing a lack of treatment options, particularly for infections with vancomycin-resistant strains, and prioritizes the identification and functional validation of novel druggable targets. Here, we use activity-based protein profiling (ABPP), a chemoproteomics approach using functionalized covalent inhibitors, to detect active serine hydrolases across 11 E. faecium and Enterococcus lactis strains. Serine hydrolases are a big and diverse enzyme family, that includes known drug targets such as penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), whereas other subfamilies are underexplored. Comparative gel-based ABPP using Bocillin-FL revealed strain- and growth condition-dependent variations in PBP activities. Profiling with the broadly serine hydrolase-reactive fluorescent probe fluorophosphonate-TMR showed a high similarity across E. faecium clade A1 strains, but higher variation across A2 and E. lactis strains. To identify these serine hydrolases, we used a biotinylated probe analog allowing for enrichment and identification via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. We identified 11 largely uncharacterized targets (alpha,beta-hydrolases, SGNH-hydrolases, phospholipases, and amidases, peptidases) that are druggable and accessible in live vancomycin-resistant E. faecium E745 and may possess vital functions that are to be characterized in future studies.
PXD047752	38813597	Identification of RACK1 as a novel regulator of non-structural protein 4 of chikungunya virus. 	Co-IP-MS identify candidate host factors that interact with CHIKV nsP4	Chikungunya virus, Nonstructural protein 4	Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a neglected arthropod-borne and anthropogenic alphavirus. Over the past two decades, the CHIKV distribution has undergone significant changes worldwide, from the original tropics and subtropics regions to temperate regions, which has attracted global attention. However, the interactions between CHIKV and its host remain insufficiently understood, which dampens the need for the development of an anti-CHIKV strategy. In this study, on the basis of the optimal overexpression of non-structural protein 4 (nsP4), we explore host interactions of CHIKV nsP4 using mass spectrometry-based protein-protein interaction approaches. The results reveal that some cellular proteins that interact with nsP4 are enriched in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Specifically, the scaffold protein receptor for activated C kinase 1 (RACK1) is identified as a novel host interactor and regulator of CHIKV nsP4. The inhibition of the interaction between RACK1 and nsP4 by harringtonolide results in the reduction of nsP4, which is caused by the promotion of degradation but not the inhibition of nsP4 translation. Furthermore, the decrease in nsP4 triggered by the RACK1 inhibitor can be reversed by the proteasome inhibitor MG132, suggesting that RACK1 can protect nsP4 from degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. This study reveals a novel mechanism by which the host factor RACK1 regulates CHIKV nsP4, which could be a potential target for developing drugs against CHIKV.
PXD051082	38814783	The Cryptosporidium signaling kinase CDPK5 plays an important role in male gametogenesis and parasite virulence. 	The Cryptosporidium signaling kinase CDPK5 plays an important role in male gametogenesis and parasite virulence	Cryptosporidium, LFQ, Phosphoproteomics, kinase signaling	The protozoan parasite Cryptosporidium is a leading cause of diarrhea in young children. The parasite's life cycle involves a coordinated and timely progression from asexual to sexual stages, leading to the formation of the transmissible oocyst. Underlying molecular signaling mechanisms orchestrating sexual development are not known. Here, we describe the function of a signaling kinase in Cryptosporidium male gametogenesis. We reveal the expression of Cryptosporidium parvum calcium-dependent protein kinase 5 (CDPK5) during male gamete development and its important role in the egress of mature gametes. Genetic ablation of this kinase results in viable parasites, indicating that this gene is dispensable for parasite survival. Interestingly, cdpk5 deletion decreases parasite virulence and impacts oocyst shedding in immunocompromised mice. Using phosphoproteomics, we identify possible CDPK5 substrates and biological processes regulated by this kinase. Collectively, these findings illuminate parasite cell biology by revealing a mechanism controlling male gamete production and a potential target to block disease transmission.
PXD050948	38815583	Axonal endoplasmic reticulum tubules control local translation via P180/RRBP1-mediated ribosome interactions. 	Pulldown of P180/RRBP1 interacting protein	HEK293, P180/RRBP1, brain	Local mRNA translation in axons is critical for the spatiotemporal regulation of the axonal proteome. A wide variety of mRNAs are localized and translated in axons; however, how protein synthesis is regulated at specific subcellular sites in axons remains unclear. Here, we establish that the axonal endoplasmic reticulum (ER) supports axonal translation in developing rat hippocampal cultured neurons. Axonal ER tubule disruption impairs local translation and ribosome distribution. Using nanoscale resolution imaging, we find that ribosomes make frequent contacts with axonal ER tubules in a translation-dependent manner and are influenced by specific extrinsic cues. We identify P180/RRBP1 as an axonally distributed ribosome receptor that regulates local translation and binds to mRNAs enriched for axonal membrane proteins. Importantly, the impairment of axonal ER-ribosome interactions causes defects in axon morphology. Our results establish a role for the axonal ER in dynamically localizing mRNA translation, which is important for proper neuron development.
PXD048434	38818059	AM-DMF-SCP: Integrated Single-Cell Proteomics Analysis on an Active Matrix Digital Microfluidic Chip. 	Integrated Single-Cell Proteomics Analysis on an Active Matrix Digital Microfluidic Chip	Active Matrix Digital Microfluidic, Single cell proteomics	Single-cell proteomics offers unparalleled insights into cellular diversity and molecular mechanisms, enabling a deeper understanding of complex biological processes at the individual cell level. Here, we develop an integrated sample processing on an active-matrix digital microfluidic chip for single-cell proteomics (AM-DMF-SCP). Employing the AM-DMF-SCP approach and data-independent acquisition (DIA), we identify an average of 2258 protein groups in single HeLa cells within 15 min of the liquid chromatography gradient. We performed comparative analyses of three tumor cell lines: HeLa, A549, and HepG2, and machine learning was utilized to identify the unique features of these cell lines. Applying the AM-DMF-SCP to characterize the proteomes of a third-generation EGFR inhibitor, ASK120067-resistant cells (67R) and their parental NCI-H1975 cells, we observed a potential correlation between elevated VIM expression and 67R resistance, which is consistent with the findings from bulk sample analyses. These results suggest that AM-DMF-SCP is an automated, robust, and sensitive platform for single-cell proteomics and demonstrate the potential for providing valuable insights into cellular mechanisms.
PXD051139	38818065	A "One-Step" Strategy for the Global Characterization of Core-Fucosylated Glycoproteome. 	A "One-step" Strategy for the Global Characterization of Core-Fucosylated Glycoproteome	Core Fucosylation, One-step	Core fucosylation, a special type of N-linked glycosylation, is important in tumor proliferation, invasion, metastatic potential, and therapy resistance. However, the core-fucosylated glycoproteome has not been extensively profiled due to the low abundance and poor ionization efficiency of glycosylated peptides. Here, a "one-step" strategy has been described for protein core-fucosylation characterization in biological samples. Core-fucosylated peptides can be selectively labeled with a glycosylated probe, which is linked with a temperature-sensitive poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (PNIPAM) polymer, by mutant endoglycosidase (EndoF3-D165A). The labeled probe can be further removed by wild-type endoglycosidase (EndoF3) in a traceless manner for mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. The feasibility and effectiveness of the "one-step" strategy are evaluated in bovine serum albumin (BSA) spiked with standard core-fucosylated peptides, H1299, and Jurkat cell lines. The "one-step" strategy is then employed to characterize core-fucosylated sites in human lung adenocarcinoma, resulting in the identification of 2494 core-fucosylated sites distributed on 1176 glycoproteins. Further data analysis reveals that 196 core-fucosylated sites are significantly upregulated in tumors, which may serve as potential drug development targets or diagnostic biomarkers. Together, this "one-step" strategy has great potential for use in global and in-depth analysis of the core-fucosylated glycoproteome to promote its mechanism research.
PXD023247	38818226	A deep-sea sulfate-reducing bacterium generates zero-valent sulfur via metabolizing thiosulfate. 	Responses to different sulfur sources reveal the complicated and interlinked sulfur metabolism pathways of a deep-sea sulfate reducing bacterium	cold seep, in situ, sulfate reducing bacterium, sulfur	Zero-valent sulfur (ZVS) is a crucial intermediate in the sulfur geobiochemical circulation and is widespread in deep-sea cold seeps. Sulfur-oxidizing bacteria are thought to be the major contributors to the formation of ZVS. However, ZVS production mediated by sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) has rarely been reported. In this study, we isolated and cultured a typical SRB designated Oceanidesulfovibrio marinus CS1 from deep-sea cold seep sediment in the South China Sea. We show that O. marinus CS1 forms ZVS in the medium supplemented with thiosulfate. Proteomic and protein activity assays revealed that thiosulfate reductase (PhsA) and the sulfide:quinone oxidoreductase (SQR) played key roles in driving ZVS formation in O. marinus CS1. During this process, thiosulfate firstly was reduced by PhsA to form sulfide, then sulfide was oxidized by SQR to produce ZVS. The expressions of PhsA and SQR were significantly upregulated when O. marinus CS1 was cultured in a deep-sea cold seep, strongly indicating that strain CS1 might form ZVS in the deep-sea environment. Notably, homologs of phsA and sqr were widely identified from microbes living in sediments of deep-sea cold seep in the South China Sea by the metagenomic analysis. We thus propose that SRB containing phsA and sqr genes potentially contribute to the formation of ZVS in deep-sea cold seep environments.
PXD037172	38818570	Overexpression of the plastidial pseudo-protease AtFtsHi3 enhances drought tolerance while sustaining plant growth. 	Overexpression of the plastidial pseudo-protease AtFtsHi3 enhances drought tolerance while sustaining plant growth 	LC-MS/MS based proteomics, drought tolerance, mathematical models of protein complex formation, pseudo-protease FTSHi3	With climate change, droughts are expected to be more frequent and severe, severely impacting plant biomass and quality. Here, we show that overexpressing the Arabidopsis gene AtFtsHi3 (FtsHi3OE) enhances drought-tolerant phenotypes without compromising plant growth. AtFtsHi3 encodes a chloroplast envelope pseudo-protease; knock-down mutants (ftshi3-1) are found to be drought tolerant but exhibit stunted growth. Altered AtFtsHi3 expression therefore leads to drought tolerance, while only diminished expression of this gene leads to growth retardation. To understand the underlying mechanisms of the enhanced drought tolerance, we compared the proteomes of ftshi3-1 and pFtsHi3-FtsHi3OE (pFtsHi3-OE) to wild-type plants under well-watered and drought conditions. Drought-related processes like osmotic stress, water transport, and abscisic acid response were enriched in pFtsHi3-OE and ftshi3-1 mutants following their enhanced drought response compared to wild-type. The knock-down mutant ftshi3-1 showed an increased abundance of HSP90, HSP93, and TIC110 proteins, hinting at a potential downstream role of AtFtsHi3 in chloroplast pre-protein import. Mathematical modeling was performed to understand how variation in the transcript abundance of AtFtsHi3 can, on the one hand, lead to drought tolerance in both overexpression and knock-down lines, yet, on the other hand, affect plant growth so differently. The results led us to hypothesize that AtFtsHi3 may form complexes with at least two other protease subunits, either as homo- or heteromeric structures. Enriched amounts of AtFtsH7/9, AtFtsH11, AtFtsH12, and AtFtsHi4 in ftshi3-1 suggest a possible compensation mechanism for these proteases in the hexamer.
PXD047998	38820176	Histone deacetylase inhibition mitigates fibrosis-driven disease progression in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. 	Histone deacetylase inhibition mitigates fibrosis-driven disease progression in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	RDEB, fibrosis, sodium valproate	BACKGROUND: Recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB) is a blistering disease caused by mutations in the gene encoding type VII collagen (C7). RDEB is associated with fibrosis, which is responsible for severe complications. The phenotypic variability observed in RDEB siblings suggests that epigenetic modifications contribute to disease severity. Identifying epigenetic changes may help to uncover molecular mechanisms underlying RDEB pathogenesis and new therapeutic targets. OBJECTIVES: To investigate histone acetylation in RDEB skin and to explore histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis) as therapeutic molecules capable of counteracting fibrosis and disease progression in RDEB mice. METHODS: Acetylated histone levels were detected in human skin by immunofluorescence and in RDEB fibroblasts by ELISA. The effects of Givinostat and valproic acid (VPA) on RDEB fibroblast fibrotic behaviour were assessed by collagen-gel contraction assay, Western blot and immunocytofluorescence for alpha-smooth muscle actin, ELISA for released transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1). RNA-seq was performed in HDACi- and vehicle-treated RDEB fibroblasts. VPA was systemically administered to RDEB mice, and effects on overt phenotype were monitored. Fibrosis was investigated in the skin using histological and immunofluorescence analyses. Eye and tongue defects were examined microscopically. Mass spectrometry proteomics was performed on skin protein extracts from VPA-treated RDEB and control mice. RESULTS: Histone acetylation decreases in RDEB skin and primary fibroblasts. RDEB fibroblasts treated with HDACis lowered fibrotic traits including contractility, TGF-beta1 release, and proliferation. VPA administration to RDEB mice mitigated severe manifestations affecting eyes and paws. These effects were associated with fibrosis inhibition. Proteomic analysis of mouse skin revealed that VPA almost normalised protein sets involved in protein synthesis and immune response, processes linked to the increased susceptibility to cancer and bacterial infections observed in RDEB patients. CONCLUSIONS: Dysregulated histone acetylation contributes to RDEB pathogenesis by facilitating the progression of fibrosis. Repurposing of HDACi could be considered for disease-modifying treatments of RDEB.
PXD049174	38821050	A pseudoautosomal glycosylation disorder prompts the revision of dolichol biosynthesis. 	A pseudoautosomal glycosylation disorder prompts the revision of dolichol biosynthesis	Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation, Dolichal, Dolichol, Lipid droplets, N-glycosylation, Polyprenal, Polyprenol, Pseudoautosomal Region	Dolichol is a lipid critical for N-glycosylation as a carrier for activated sugars and nascent oligosaccharides. It is commonly thought to be directly produced from polyprenol by the enzyme SRD5A3. Instead, we found that dolichol synthesis requires a three-step detour involving additional metabolites, where SRD5A3 catalyzes only the second reaction. The first and third steps are performed by DHRSX, whose gene resides on the pseudoautosomal regions of the X and Y chromosomes. Accordingly, we report a pseudoautosomal-recessive disease presenting as a congenital disorder of glycosylation in patients with missense variants in DHRSX (DHRSX-CDG). Of note, DHRSX has a unique dual substrate and cofactor specificity, allowing it to act as a NAD(+)-dependent dehydrogenase and as a NADPH-dependent reductase in two non-consecutive steps. Thus, our work reveals unexpected complexity in the terminal steps of dolichol biosynthesis. Furthermore, we provide insights into the mechanism by which dolichol metabolism defects contribute to disease.
PXD047480	38821295	Novel interacting proteins identified by tandem affinity purification and mass spectrometry associated with IFITM3 protein during PDCoV infection. 	Novel interacting proteins identified by tandem affinity purification and mass spectrometry associated with IFITM3 protein during PDCoV infection	swine, virus	Interferon-induced transmembrane 3 (IFITM3) is a membrane-associated protein that exhibits antiviral activities against a wide range of viruses through interactions with other cellular and viral proteins. However, knowledge of the mechanisms of IFITM3 in Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) infection has been lacking. In this study, we demonstrate that IFN-alpha treatment induces the upregulation of IFITM3 activity and thus attenuates PDCoV infection. PDCoV replication is inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by IFITM3 overexpression. To clarify the novel roles of IFITM3 during PDCoV infection, proteins that interact with IFITM3 were screened by TAP/MS in an ST cell line stably expressing IFITM3 via a lentivirus. We identified known and novel candidate IFITM3-binding proteins and analyzed the protein complexes using GO annotation, KEGG pathway analysis, and protein interaction network analysis. A total of 362 cellular proteins associate with IFITM3 during the first 24 h post-infection. Of these proteins, the relationship between IFITM3 and Rab9a was evaluated by immunofluorescence colocalization analysis using confocal microscopy. IFITM3 partially colocalized with Rab9a and Rab9a exhibited enhanced colocalization following PDCoV infection. We also demonstrated that IFITM3 interacts specifically with Rab9a. Our results considerably expand the protein networks of IFITM3, suggesting that IFITM3 participates in multiple cellular processes during PDCoV infection.
PXD046388	38822058	Proteomic analysis of pleomorphic dermal sarcoma reveals a fibroblastic cell of origin and distinct immune evasion mechanisms. 	Proteomic analysis of pleomorphic dermal sarcoma	Fibroblastic lineage, Immune Evasion, Pleomorphic Dermal Sarcoma (PDS), Protein Analysis	Pleomorphic dermal sarcomas are infrequent neoplastic skin tumors, manifesting in regions of the skin exposed to ultraviolet radiation. Diagnosing the entity can be challenging and therapeutic options are limited. We analyzed 20 samples of normal healthy skin tissue (SNT), 27 malignant melanomas (MM), 20 cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (cSCC), and 24 pleomorphic dermal sarcomas (PDS) using mass spectrometry. We explored a potential cell of origin in PDS and validated our findings using publicly available single-cell sequencing data. By correlating tumor purity (TP), inferred by both RNA- and DNA-sequencing, to protein abundance, we found that fibroblasts shared most of the proteins correlating to TP. This observation could also be made using publicly available SNT single cell sequencing data. Moreover, we studied relevant pathways of receptor/ligand (R/L) interactions. Analysis of R/L interactions revealed distinct pathways in cSCC, MM and PDS, with a prominent role of PDGFRB-PDGFD R/L interactions and upregulation of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. By studying differentially expressed proteins between cSCC and PDS, markers such as MAP1B could differentiate between these two entities. To this end, we studied proteins associated with immunosuppression in PDS, uncovering that immunologically cold PDS cases shared a "negative regulation of interferon-gamma signaling" according to overrepresentation analysis.
PXD049220	38822137	YIPF3 and YIPF4 regulate autophagic turnover of the Golgi apparatus. 	TMT-based proteomic analysis of Atg5-/- mouse brain	Atg5, TMT10, brain	The degradation of organelles by autophagy is essential for cellular homeostasis. The Golgi apparatus has recently been demonstrated to be degraded by autophagy, but little is known about how the Golgi is recognized by the forming autophagosome. Using quantitative proteomic analysis and two novel Golgiphagy reporter systems, we found that the five-pass transmembrane Golgi-resident proteins YIPF3 and YIPF4 constitute a Golgiphagy receptor. The interaction of this complex with LC3B, GABARAP, and GABARAPL1 is dependent on a LIR motif within YIPF3 and putative phosphorylation sites immediately upstream; the stability of the complex is governed by YIPF4. Expression of a YIPF3 protein containing a mutated LIR motif caused an elongated Golgi morphology, indicating the importance of Golgi turnover via selective autophagy. The reporter assays reported here may be readily adapted to different experimental contexts to help deepen our understanding of Golgiphagy.
PXD047008	38822246	AGR2-mediated unconventional secretion of 14-3-3epsilon and alpha-actinin-4, responsive to ER stress and autophagy, drives chemotaxis in canine mammary tumor cells. 	Secretome profiling of canine mammary tumor cells reveals AGR2-mediated regulation of protein secretion	Secretome, anterior gradient 2 (AGR2), canine mammary tumor (CMT), label-free quantification	BACKGROUND: Canine mammary tumors (CMTs) in intact female dogs provide a natural model for investigating metastatic human cancers. Our prior research identified elevated expression of Anterior Gradient 2 (AGR2), a protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) primarily found in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), in CMT tissues, highly associated with CMT progression. We further demonstrated that increased AGR2 expression actively influences the extracellular microenvironment, promoting chemotaxis in CMT cells. Unraveling the underlying mechanisms is crucial for assessing the potential of therapeutically targeting AGR2 as a strategy to inhibit a pro-metastatic microenvironment and impede tumor metastasis. METHODS: To identify the AGR2-modulated secretome, we employed proteomics analysis of the conditioned media (CM) from two CMT cell lines ectopically expressing AGR2, compared with corresponding vector-expressing controls. AGR2-regulated release of 14-3-3epsilon (gene: YWHAE) and alpha-actinin 4 (gene: ACTN4) was validated through ectopic expression, knockdown, and knockout of the AGR2 gene in CMT cells. Extracellular vesicles derived from CMT cells were isolated using either differential ultracentrifugation or size exclusion chromatography. The roles of 14-3-3epsilon and alpha-actinin 4 in the chemotaxis driven by the AGR2-modulated CM were investigated through gene knockdown, antibody-mediated interference, and recombinant protein supplement. Furthermore, the clinical relevance of the release of 14-3-3epsilon and alpha-actinin 4 was assessed using CMT tissue-immersed saline and sera from CMT-afflicted dogs. RESULTS: Proteomics analysis of the AGR2-modulated secretome revealed increased abundance in 14-3-3epsilon and alpha-actinin 4. Ectopic expression of AGR2 significantly increased the release of 14-3-3epsilon and alpha-actinin 4 in the CM. Conversely, knockdown or knockout of AGR2 expression remarkably reduced their release. Silencing 14-3-3epsilon or alpha-actinin 4 expression diminished the chemotaxis driven by AGR2-modulated CM. Furthermore, AGR2 controls the release of 14-3-3epsilon and alpha-actinin 4 primarily via non-vesicular routes, responding to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and autophagy activation. Knockout of AGR2 resulted in increased alpha-actinin 4 accumulation and impaired 14-3-3epsilon translocation in autophagosomes. Depletion of extracellular 14-3-3epsilon or alpha-actinin 4 reduced the chemotaxis driven by AGR2-modulated CM, whereas supplement with recombinant 14-3-3epsilon in the CM enhanced the CM-driven chemotaxis. Notably, elevated levels of 14-3-3epsilon or alpha-actinin 4 were observed in CMT tissue-immersed saline compared with paired non-tumor samples and in the sera of CMT dogs compared with healthy dogs. CONCLUSION: This study elucidates AGR2's pivotal role in orchestrating unconventional secretion of 14-3-3epsilon and alpha-actinin 4 from CMT cells, thereby contributing to paracrine-mediated chemotaxis. The insight into the intricate interplay between AGR2-involved ER stress, autophagy, and unconventional secretion provides a foundation for refining strategies aimed at impeding metastasis in both canine mammary tumors and potentially human cancers.
PXD029494	38822261	Proteome profiling of Campylobacter jejuni 81-176 at 37 degreesC and 42 degreesC by label-free mass spectrometry. 	Proteome profiling of Campylobacter jejuni 81-176 at 37C and 42C by label-free mass spectrometry	Campylobacter jejuni, data-independent acquisition, temperature adaptation	BACKGROUND: The main natural reservoir for Campylobacter jejuni is the avian intestinal tract. There, C. jejuni multiplies optimally at 42 degreesC - the avian body temperature. After infecting humans through oral intake, the bacterium encounters the lower temperature of 37 degreesC in the human intestinal tract. Proteome profiling by label-free mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) was performed to examine the processes which enable C. jejuni 81-176 to thrive at 37 degreesC in comparison to 42 degreesC. In total, four states were compared with each other: incubation for 12 h at 37 degreesC, for 24 h at 37 degreesC, for 12 h at 42 degreesC and 24 h at 42 degreesC. RESULTS: It was shown that the proteomic changes not only according to the different incubation temperature but also to the length of the incubation period were evident when comparing 37 degreesC and 42 degreesC as well as 12 h and 24 h of incubation. Altogether, the expression of 957 proteins was quantifiable. 37.1 - 47.3% of the proteins analyzed showed significant differential regulation, with at least a 1.5-fold change in either direction (i.e. log2 FC >= 0.585 or log2 FC <= -0.585) and an FDR-adjusted p-value of less than 0.05. The significantly differentially expressed proteins could be arranged in 4 different clusters and 16 functional categories. CONCLUSIONS: The C. jejuni proteome at 42 degreesC is better adapted to high replication rates than that at 37 degreesC, which was in particular indicated by the up-regulation of proteins belonging to the functional categories "replication" (e.g. Obg, ParABS, and NapL), "DNA synthesis and repair factors" (e.g. DNA-polymerase III, DnaB, and DnaE), "lipid and carbohydrate biosynthesis" (e.g. capsular biosynthesis sugar kinase, PrsA, AccA, and AccP) and "vitamin synthesis, metabolism, cofactor biosynthesis" (e.g. MobB, BioA, and ThiE). The relative up-regulation of proteins with chaperone function (GroL, DnaK, ClpB, HslU, GroS, DnaJ, DnaJ-1, and NapD) at 37 degreesC in comparison to 42 degreesC after 12 h incubation indicates a temporary lower-temperature proteomic response. Additionally the up-regulation of factors for DNA uptake (ComEA and RecA) at 37 degreesC compared to 42 degreesC indicate a higher competence for the acquisition of extraneous DNA at human body temperature.
PXD052008	38822352	Neutrophils cultured ex vivo from CD34(+) stem cells are immature and genetically tractable. 	NanoLC-MSMS TMT comparison of native and in vitro culture-derived neutrophils	Cell culture, Neutrophil	BACKGROUND: Neutrophils are granulocytes with essential antimicrobial effector functions and short lifespans. During infection or sterile inflammation, emergency granulopoiesis leads to release of immature neutrophils from the bone marrow, serving to boost circulating neutrophil counts. Steady state and emergency granulopoiesis are incompletely understood, partly due to a lack of genetically amenable models of neutrophil development. METHODS: We optimised a method for ex vivo production of human neutrophils from CD34(+) haematopoietic progenitors. Using flow cytometry, we phenotypically compared cultured neutrophils with native neutrophils from donors experiencing emergency granulopoiesis, and steady state neutrophils from non-challenged donors. We carry out functional and proteomic characterisation of cultured neutrophils and establish genome editing of progenitors. RESULTS: We obtain high yields of ex vivo cultured neutrophils, which phenotypically resemble immature neutrophils released into the circulation during emergency granulopoiesis. Cultured neutrophils have similar rates of ROS production and bacterial killing but altered degranulation, cytokine release and antifungal activity compared to mature neutrophils isolated from peripheral blood. These differences are likely due to incomplete synthesis of granule proteins, as demonstrated by proteomic analysis. CONCLUSION: Ex vivo cultured neutrophils are genetically tractable via genome editing of precursors and provide a powerful model system for investigating the properties and behaviour of immature neutrophils.
PXD045075	38822378	FdeC expression regulates motility and adhesion of the avian pathogenic Escherichia coli strain IMT5155. 	The role of inverse autotransporter FdeC in Avian Pathogenic Escherichia coli adhesion	Avian Patogenic Escheirichia. FdeC, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS	Adaptation of avian pathogenic E. coli (APEC) to changing host environments including virulence factors expression is vital for disease progression. FdeC is an autotransporter adhesin that plays a role in uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) adhesion to epithelial cells. Expression of fdeC is known to be regulated by environmental conditions in UPEC and Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC). The observation in a previous study that an APEC strain IMT5155 in which the fdeC gene was disrupted by a transposon insertion resulted in elevated adhesion to chicken intestinal cells prompted us to further explore the role of fdeC in infection. We found that the fdeC gene prevalence and FdeC variant prevalence differed between APEC and nonpathogenic E. coli genomes. Expression of the fdeC gene was induced at host body temperature, an infection relevant condition. Disruption of fdeC resulted in greater adhesion to CHIC-8E11 cells and increased motility at 42 degreesC compared to wild type (WT) and higher expression of multiple transporter proteins that increased inorganic ion export. Increased motility may be related to increased inorganic ion export since this resulted in downregulation of YbjN, a protein known to supress motility. Inactivation of fdeC in APEC strain IMT5155 resulted in a weaker immune response in chickens compared to WT in experimental infections. Our findings suggest that FdeC is upregulated in the host and contributes to interactions with the host by down-modulating motility during colonization. A thorough understanding of the regulation and function of FdeC could provide novel insights into E. coli pathogenesis.
PXD047431	38823442	Identification of phosphorylated small ORF-encoded peptides in Hep3B cells by LC/MS/MS. 	Identification of phosphorylated SEPs in Hep3B cells by LC/MS/MS	Phosphorylation, Small open reading encoded peptides	Small ORF-encoded peptides (SEPs) are a class of low molecular weight proteins and peptides comprising <100 amino acids with important functions in various life activities. Although the sequence length is short, SEPs might also have post-translational modification (PTM). Phosphorylation is one of the most essential PTMs of proteins. In this work, we enriched phosphopeptides with IMAC and TiO2 materials and analyzed the phosphorylated SEPs in Hep3B cells. A total of 24 phosphorylated SEPs were identified, and 11 SEPs were coded by ncRNA. For the sequence analysis, we found that the general characteristics of phosphorylated SEPs are roughly the same as canonical proteins. Besides, two phosphorylation SEPs have the Stathmin family signature 2 motif, which can regulate the microtubule cytoskeleton. Some SEPs have domains or signal peptides, indicating their specific functions and subcellular locations. Kinase network analysis found a small number of kinases that may be a clue to the specific functions of some SEPs. However, only one-fifth of the predicted phosphorylation sites were identified by LC/MS/MS, indicating that many SEP PTMs are hidden in the dark, waiting to be uncovered and verified. This study helps expand our understanding of SEP and provides information for further SEP function investigation. SIGNIFICANCE: Small ORF-encoded peptides (SEPs) are important in various life activities. Although the sequence length is short (<100AA), SEPs might also have post-translational modification (PTM). Phosphorylation is one of the most essential PTMs of proteins. We enriched phosphopeptides and analyzed the phosphorylated SEPs in Hep3B cells. That is the first time to explore the PTM of SPEs systematically. Kinase network analysis found a small number of kinases that may be a clue to the specific functions of SEPs. More SEP PTMs are hidden in the dark and waiting to be uncovered and verified. This study helps expand our understanding of SEP and provides information for further SEP function investigation.
PXD049696	38823640	Intestinal lysozyme engagement of Salmonella Typhimurium stimulates the release of barrier-impairing InvE and Lpp1. 	Human Lysozyme Treated Salmonella Tm. Supernatant	Lysozyme, Salmonella Tm., Supernatant, virulence proteins	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Lysozyme is a beta-1,4-glycosidase that hydrolyzes the polysaccharide backbone of bacterial cell walls. With an additional bactericidal function mediated by a separate protein domain, lysozyme is considered as a uniquely important antimicrobial molecule contributing to the host's innate immune response to infection. Elevated lysozyme production is found in various inflammatory conditions while patients with genetic risks for inflammatory bowel diseases demonstrate abnormal lysozyme expression, granule packaging, and secretion in Paneth cells. However, it remains unclear how a gain- or loss-of-function in host lysozyme may impact the host inflammatory responses to pathogenic infection. METHODS: We challenged Lyz1(-/-) and ectopic Lyz1-expressing (Villin-Lyz1(TG)) mice with S. Typhimurium then comprehensively assessed the inflammatory disease progression. We conducted proteomics analysis to identify molecules derived from human lysozyme-mediated processing of live Salmonella. We examined the barrier-impairing effects of these identified molecules in human intestinal epithelial cell monolayer and enteroids. RESULTS: Lyz1(-/-) mice are protected from infection in terms of morbidity, mortality, and barrier integrity, whereas Villin-Lyz1(TG) mice demonstrate exacerbated infection and inflammation. The growth and invasion of Salmonella in vitro are not affected by human or chicken lysozyme, whereas lysozyme encountering of live Salmonella stimulates the release of barrier-disrupting factors, InvE-sipC and Lpp1, which directly or indirectly impair the tight junctions. CONCLUSION: The direct engagement of host intestinal lysozyme with an enteric pathogen such as Salmonella promotes the release of virulence factors that are barrier-impairing and pro-inflammatory. Controlling lysozyme function may help alleviate the inflammatory progression.
PXD044094	38824128	An axonemal intron splicing program sustains Plasmodium male development. 	An axonemal intron splicing program sustains Plasmodium male development	RNA binding protein, malaria, spliceosome	Differentiation of male gametocytes into flagellated fertile male gametes relies on the assembly of axoneme, a major component of male development for mosquito transmission of the malaria parasite. RNA-binding protein (RBP)-mediated post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA plays important roles in eukaryotic sexual development, including the development of female Plasmodium. However, the role of RBP in defining the Plasmodium male transcriptome and its function in male gametogenesis remains incompletely understood. Here, we performed genome-wide screening for gender-specific RBPs and identified an undescribed male-specific RBP gene Rbpm1 in the Plasmodium. RBPm1 is localized in the nucleus of male gametocytes. RBPm1-deficient parasites fail to assemble the axoneme for male gametogenesis and thus mosquito transmission. RBPm1 interacts with the spliceosome E complex and regulates the splicing initiation of certain introns in a group of 26 axonemal genes. RBPm1 deficiency results in intron retention and protein loss of these axonemal genes. Intron deletion restores axonemal protein expression and partially rectifies axonemal defects in RBPm1-null gametocytes. Further splicing assays in both reporter and endogenous genes exhibit stringent recognition of the axonemal introns by RBPm1. The splicing activator RBPm1 and its target introns constitute an axonemal intron splicing program in the post-transcriptional regulation essential for Plasmodium male development.
PXD039096	38825580	Molecular distinctions of bronchoalveolar and alveolar organoids under differentiation conditions. 	Proteomics analysis of murine lung organoids	Differentiation, Lung, Organoid	The bronchoalveolar organoid (BAO) model is increasingly acknowledged as an ex-vivo platform that accurately emulates the structural and functional attributes of proximal airway tissue. The transition from bronchoalveolar progenitor cells to alveolar organoids is a common event during the generation of BAOs. However, there is a pressing need for comprehensive analysis to elucidate the molecular distinctions characterizing the pre-differentiated and post-differentiated states within BAO models. This study established a murine BAO model and subsequently triggered its differentiation. Thereafter, a suite of multidimensional analytical procedures was employed, including the morphological recognition and examination of organoids utilizing an established artificial intelligence (AI) image tracking system, quantification of cellular composition, proteomic profiling and immunoblots of selected proteins. Our investigation yielded a detailed evaluation of the morphologic, cellular, and molecular variances demarcating the pre- and post-differentiation phases of the BAO model. We also identified of a potential molecular signature reflective of the observed morphological transformations. The integration of cutting-edge AI-driven image analysis with traditional cellular and molecular investigative methods has illuminated key features of this nascent model.
PXD047649	38825681	A hybrid TIM complex mediates protein import into hydrogenosomes of Trichomonas vaginalis. 	A hybrid TIM complex mediates protein import into hydrogenosomes of Trichomonas vaginalis	TIM22 complex, TIM23 complex, Trichomonas vaginalis, hydrogenosomes, mitochondria, parasite, presequence translocase-associated motor, protein import machinery	BACKGROUND: Hydrogenosomes are a specific type of mitochondria that have adapted for life under anaerobiosis. Limited availability of oxygen has resulted in the loss of the membrane-associated respiratory chain, and consequently in the generation of minimal inner membrane potential (Deltapsi), and inefficient ATP synthesis via substrate-level phosphorylation. The changes in energy metabolism are directly linked with the organelle biogenesis. In mitochondria, proteins are imported across the outer membrane via the Translocase of the Outer Membrane (TOM complex), while two Translocases of the Inner Membrane, TIM22, and TIM23, facilitate import to the inner membrane and matrix. TIM23-mediated steps are entirely dependent on Deltapsi and ATP hydrolysis, while TIM22 requires only Deltapsi. The character of the hydrogenosomal inner membrane translocase and the mechanism of translocation is currently unknown. RESULTS: We report unprecedented modification of TIM in hydrogenosomes of the human parasite Trichomonas vaginalis (TvTIM). We show that the import of the presequence-containing protein into the hydrogenosomal matrix is mediated by the hybrid TIM22-TIM23 complex that includes three highly divergent core components, TvTim22, TvTim23, and TvTim17-like proteins. The hybrid character of the TvTIM is underlined by the presence of both TvTim22 and TvTim17/23, association with small Tim chaperones (Tim9-10), which in mitochondria are known to facilitate the transfer of substrates to the TIM22 complex, and the coupling with TIM23-specific ATP-dependent presequence translocase-associated motor (PAM). Interactome reconstruction based on co-immunoprecipitation (coIP) and mass spectrometry revealed that hybrid TvTIM is formed with the compositional variations of paralogs. Single-particle electron microscopy for the 132-kDa purified TvTIM revealed the presence of a single ring of small Tims complex, while mitochondrial TIM22 complex bears twin small Tims hexamer. TvTIM is currently the only TIM visualized outside of Opisthokonta, which raised the question of which form is prevailing across eukaryotes. The tight association of the hybrid TvTIM with ADP/ATP carriers (AAC) suggests that AAC may directly supply ATP for the protein import since ATP synthesis is limited in hydrogenosomes. CONCLUSIONS: The hybrid TvTIM in hydrogenosomes represents an original structural solution that evolved for protein import when Deltapsi is negligible and remarkable example of evolutionary adaptation to an anaerobic lifestyle.
PXD041337	38825704	Differentiation between descending thoracic aortic diseases using machine learning and plasma proteomic signatures. 	Machine Learning Identifies Plasma Proteomic Signatures of Descending Thoracic Aortic Disease	Descending Aortic Disease, Machine Learning, Plasma Proteomics, Thoracic Aortic Aneurysm, Type B Dissection	BACKGROUND: Descending thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections can go undetected until severe and catastrophic, and few clinical indices exist to screen for aneurysms or predict risk of dissection. METHODS: This study generated a plasma proteomic dataset from 75 patients with descending type B dissection (Type B) and 62 patients with descending thoracic aortic aneurysm (DTAA). Standard statistical approaches were compared to supervised machine learning (ML) algorithms to distinguish Type B from DTAA cases. Quantitatively similar proteins were clustered based on linkage distance from hierarchical clustering and ML models were trained with uncorrelated protein lists across various linkage distances with hyperparameter optimization using fivefold cross validation. Permutation importance (PI) was used for ranking the most important predictor proteins of ML classification between disease states and the proteins among the top 10 PI protein groups were submitted for pathway analysis. RESULTS: Of the 1,549 peptides and 198 proteins used in this study, no peptides and only one protein, hemopexin (HPX), were significantly different at an adjusted p < 0.01 between Type B and DTAA cases. The highest performing model on the training set (Support Vector Classifier) and its corresponding linkage distance (0.5) were used for evaluation of the test set, yielding a precision-recall area under the curve of 0.7 to classify between Type B from DTAA cases. The five proteins with the highest PI scores were immunoglobulin heavy variable 6-1 (IGHV6-1), lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), coagulation factor 12 (F12), HPX, and immunoglobulin heavy variable 4-4 (IGHV4-4). All proteins from the top 10 most important groups generated the following significantly enriched pathways in the plasma of Type B versus DTAA patients: complement activation, humoral immune response, and blood coagulation. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that ML may be useful in differentiating the plasma proteome of highly similar disease states that would otherwise not be distinguishable using statistics, and, in such cases, ML may enable prioritizing important proteins for model prediction.
PXD041056	38827406	Compartmentalization proteomics revealed endolysosomal protein network changes in a goat model of atrial fibrillation. 	Compartmentalisation proteomics revealed endolysosomal protein network changes in a goat model of atrial fibrillation	Atrial Fibrillation, Endolysosomal protein, Goat	Endolysosomes (EL) are known for their role in regulating both intracellular trafficking and proteostasis. EL facilitate the elimination of damaged membranes, protein aggregates, membranous organelles and play an important role in calcium signaling. The specific role of EL in cardiac atrial fibrillation (AF) is not well understood. We isolated atrial EL organelles from AF goat biopsies and conducted a comprehensive integrated omics analysis to study the EL-specific proteins and pathways. We also performed electron tomography, protein and enzyme assays on these biopsies. Our results revealed the upregulation of the AMPK pathway and the expression of EL-specific proteins that were not found in whole tissue lysates, including GAA, DYNLRB1, CLTB, SIRT3, CCT2, and muscle-specific HSPB2. We also observed structural anomalies, such as autophagic-vacuole formation, irregularly shaped mitochondria, and glycogen deposition. Our results provide molecular information suggesting EL play a role in AF disease process over extended time frames.
PXD051464	38828018	Parabacteroides distasonis-Derived Outer Membrane Vesicles Enhance Antitumor Immunity Against Colon Tumors by Modulating CXCL10 and CD8(+) T Cells. 	Parabacteroides distasonis-Derived Outer Membrane Vesicles Enhance Antitumor Immunity in Colon Cancer by Modulating CXCL10 and CD8+ T Cells	Antitumor immune response, CD8+ T cells, CXCL10, Colon tumor, Outer membrane vesicles, Parabacteroides distasonis	Purpose: Given the potent immunostimulatory effects of bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) and the significant anti-colon tumor properties of Parabacteroides distasonis (Pd), this study aimed to elucidate the role and potential mechanisms of Pd-derived OMVs (Pd-OMVs) against colon cancer. Methods: This study isolated and purified Pd-OMVs from Pd cultures and assessed their characteristics. The effects of Pd-OMVs on CT26 cell uptake, proliferation, and invasion were investigated in vitro. In vivo, a CT26 colon tumor model was used to investigate the anti-colon tumor effects and underlying mechanisms of Pd-OMVs. Finally, we evaluated the biosafety of Pd-OMVs. Results: Purified Pd-OMVs had a uniform cup-shaped structure with an average size of 165.5 nm and a zeta potential of approximately -9.56 mV, and their proteins were associated with pathways related to immunity and apoptosis. In vitro experiments demonstrated that CT26 cells internalized the Pd-OMVs, resulting in a significant decrease in their proliferation and invasion abilities. Further in vivo studies confirmed the accumulation of Pd-OMVs in tumor tissues, which significantly inhibited the growth of colon tumors. Mechanistically, Pd-OMVs increased the expression of CXCL10, promoting infiltration of CD8(+) T cells into tumor tissues and expression of pro-inflammatory factors TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6. Notably, Pd-OMVs demonstrated a high level of biosafety. Conclusion: This paper elucidates that Pd-OMVs can exert significant anti-colon tumor effects by upregulating the expression of the chemokine CXCL10, thereby increasing the infiltration of CD8(+) T cells into tumors and enhancing antitumor immune responses. This suggests that Pd-OMVs may be developed as a novel nanoscale potent immunostimulant with great potential for application in tumor immunotherapy. As well as developed as a novel nano-delivery carrier for combination with other antitumor drugs.
PXD052066	38828770	The fission yeast ortholog of Coilin, Mug174, forms Cajal body-like nuclear condensates and is essential for cellular quiescence. 	Whole-cell proteome analyses of prototrophic Schizosaccharomyces pombe wild-type and mug174 strains during vegetative growth and in G0/cellular quiescence (1 day, 7 days, or 14 days following nitrogen depletion) using liquid chromatography followed by t	G0, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, cellular quiescence, vegetative growth	The Cajal body, a nuclear condensate, is crucial for ribonucleoprotein assembly, including small nuclear RNPs (snRNPs). While Coilin has been identified as an integral component of Cajal bodies, its exact function remains unclear. Moreover, no Coilin ortholog has been found in unicellular organisms to date. This study unveils Mug174 (Meiosis-upregulated gene 174) as the Coilin ortholog in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Mug174 forms phase-separated condensates in vitro and is often associated with the nucleolus and the cleavage body in vivo. The generation of Mug174 foci relies on the trimethylguanosine (TMG) synthase Tgs1. Moreover, Mug174 interacts with Tgs1 and U snRNAs. Deletion of the mug174+ gene in S. pombe causes diverse pleiotropic phenotypes, encompassing defects in vegetative growth, meiosis, pre-mRNA splicing, TMG capping of U snRNAs, and chromosome segregation. In addition, we identified weak homology between Mug174 and human Coilin. Notably, human Coilin expressed in fission yeast colocalizes with Mug174. Critically, Mug174 is indispensable for the maintenance of and transition from cellular quiescence. These findings highlight the Coilin ortholog in fission yeast and suggest that the Cajal body is implicated in cellular quiescence, thereby preventing human diseases.
PXD047774	38828998	Reduced Protein Import via TIM23 SORT Drives Disease Pathology in TIMM50-Associated Mitochondrial Disease. 	Impaired protein import drives mitochondrial dysfunction upon mutation of TIMM50 in mitochondrial disease	Mitochondria, Mitochondrial Disease, Mitochondrial Protein Import, TIM23 Complex, TIMM50	TIMM50 is a core subunit of the TIM23 complex, the mitochondrial inner membrane translocase responsible for the import of pre-sequence-containing precursors into the mitochondrial matrix and inner membrane. Here we describe a mitochondrial disease patient who is homozygous for a novel variant in TIMM50 and establish the first proteomic map of mitochondrial disease associated with TIMM50 dysfunction. We demonstrate that TIMM50 pathogenic variants reduce the levels and activity of endogenous TIM23 complex, which significantly impacts the mitochondrial proteome, resulting in a combined oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) defect and changes to mitochondrial ultrastructure. Using proteomic data sets from TIMM50 patient fibroblasts and a TIMM50 HEK293 cell model of disease, we reveal that laterally released substrates imported via the TIM23(SORT) complex pathway are most sensitive to loss of TIMM50. Proteins involved in OXPHOS and mitochondrial ultrastructure are enriched in the TIM23(SORT) substrate pool, providing a biochemical mechanism for the specific defects in TIMM50-associated mitochondrial disease patients. These results highlight the power of using proteomics to elucidate molecular mechanisms of disease and uncovering novel features of fundamental biology, with the implication that human TIMM50 may have a more pronounced role in lateral insertion than previously understood.
PXD039402	38830841	Pulmonary maternal immune activation does not cross the placenta but leads to fetal metabolic adaptation. 	The placenta has an active role in maintaining fetal homeostasis following maternal immune activation	fetal liver, mouse placenta, phosphoproteomics	The fetal development of organs and functions is vulnerable to perturbation by maternal inflammation which may increase susceptibility to disorders after birth. Because it is not well understood how the placenta and fetus respond to acute lung- inflammation, we characterize the response to maternal pulmonary lipopolysaccharide exposure across 24 h in maternal and fetal organs using multi-omics, imaging and integrative analyses. Unlike maternal organs, which mount strong inflammatory immune responses, the placenta upregulates immuno-modulatory genes, in particular the IL-6 signaling suppressor Socs3. Similarly, we observe no immune response in the fetal liver, which instead displays metabolic changes, including increases in lipids containing docosahexaenoic acid, crucial for fetal brain development. The maternal liver and plasma display similar metabolic alterations, potentially increasing bioavailability of docosahexaenoic acid for the mother and fetus. Thus, our integrated temporal analysis shows that systemic inflammation in the mother leads to a metabolic perturbation in the fetus.
PXD048090	38830931	Effect of cellular senescence on the response of human peritoneal mesothelial cells to TGF-beta. 	Characterization of fibrosis and senescence of human omental peritoneal mesothelial cells	Peritoneal dialysis, fibrosis, senescence	Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) is implicated in both mesothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (MMT) and cellular senescence of human peritoneal mesothelial cells (HPMCs). We previously showed that senescent HPMCs could spontaneously acquire some phenotypic features of MMT, which in young HPMCs were induced by TGF-beta. Here, we used electron microscopy, as well as global gene and protein profiling to assess in detail how exposure to TGF-beta impacts on young and senescent HPMCs in vitro. We found that TGF-beta induced structural changes consistent with MMT in young, but not in senescent HPMCs. Of all genes and proteins identified reliably in HPMCs across all treatments and states, 4,656 targets represented overlapping genes and proteins. Following exposure to TGF-beta, 137 proteins and 46 transcripts were significantly changed in young cells, compared to 225 proteins and only 2 transcripts in senescent cells. Identified differences between young and senescent HPMCs were related predominantly to wound healing, integrin-mediated signalling, production of proteases and extracellular matrix components, and cytoskeleton structure. Thus, the response of senescent HPMCs to TGF-beta differs or is less pronounced compared to young cells. As a result, the character and magnitude of the postulated contribution of HPMCs to TGF-beta-induced peritoneal remodelling may change with cell senescence.
PXD044041	38832804	Intramolecular Disulfide Bridges in Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel 2 (VDAC2) Protein from Rattus norvegicus Revealed by High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry. 	Intramolecular disulfide bridges in Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel 2 (VDAC2) protein from Rattus norvegicus revealed by high resolution mass spectrometry.	Cysteine Redox State, High-resolution Mass Spectrometry, Intramolecular Disulfide Bridges, Rattus Voltage-dependent Anion Selective Channel Isoform 2 (rVDAC2), Structural Characterization.	Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel isoforms (VDAC1, VDAC2, and VDAC3) are relevant components of the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) and play a crucial role in regulation of metabolism and in survival pathways. As major players in the regulation of cellular metabolism and apoptosis, VDACs can be considered at the crossroads between two broad families of pathologies, namely, cancer and neurodegeneration, the former being associated with elevated glycolytic rate and suppression of apoptosis in cancer cells, the latter characterized by mitochondrial dysfunction and increased cell death. Recently, we reported the characterization of the oxidation pattern of methionine and cysteines in rat and human VDACs showing that each cysteine in these proteins is present with a preferred oxidation state, ranging from the reduced to the trioxidized form, and such an oxidation state is remarkably conserved between rat and human VDACs. However, the presence and localization of disulfide bonds in VDACs, a key point for their structural characterization, have so far remained undetermined. Herein we have investigated by nanoUHPLC/High-Resolution nanoESI-MS/MS the position of intramolecular disulfide bonds in rat VDAC2 (rVDAC2), a protein that contains 11 cysteines. To this purpose, extraction, purification, and enzymatic digestions were carried out at slightly acidic or neutral pH in order to minimize disulfide bond interchange. The presence of six disulfide bridges was unequivocally determined, including a disulfide bridge linking the two adjacent cysteines 4 and 5, a disulfide bridge linking cysteines 9 and 14, and the alternative disulfide bridges between cysteines 48, 77, and 104. A disulfide bond, which is very resistant to reduction, between cysteines 134 and 139 was also detected. In addition to the previous findings, these results significantly extend the characterization of the oxidation state of cysteines in rVDAC2 and show that it is highly complex and presents unusual features. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD044041.
PXD048381	38832927	Comprehensive Characterization of the Viscoelastic Properties of Bovine Submaxillary Mucin (BSM) Hydrogels and the Effect of Additives. 	A comprehensive characterization of the viscoelastic properties of Bovine Submaxillary Mucin (BSM) and the effect of additives	Bovine Submaxillary Mucin (BSM), DDA, label free	This study presents a comprehensive characterization of the viscoelastic and structural properties of bovine submaxillary mucin (BSM), which is widely used as a commercial source to conduct mucus-related research. We conducted concentration studies of BSM and examined the effects of various additives, NaCl, CaCl2, MgCl2, lysozyme, and DNA, on its rheological behavior. A notable connection between BSM concentration and viscoelastic properties was observed, particularly under varying ionic conditions. The rheological spectra could be well described by a fractional Kelvin-Voigt model with a minimum of model parameters. A detailed proteomics analysis provided insight into the protein, especially mucin composition within BSM, showing MUC19 as the main component. Cryo-scanning electron microscopy enabled the visualization of the porous BSM network structure. These investigations give us a more profound comprehension of the BSM properties, especially those pertaining to viscoelasticity, and how they are influenced by concentration and environmental conditions, aspects relevant to the field of mucus research.
PXD042583	38832935	GLP-1 increases heart rate by a direct action on the sinus node. 	Phosphoproteomics evaluation of the effect of GLP-1 on the porcine pacemaker	GLP-1, Heart, Pacemaker, Phosphoproteomics, Pig, Porcine, Sinus node, glucagon-like peptide 1	AIMS: Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) are increasingly used to treat type 2 diabetes and obesity. Albeit cardiovascular outcomes generally improve, treatment with GLP-1 RAs is associated with increased heart rate, the mechanism of which is unclear. METHODS AND RESULTS: We employed a large animal model, the female landrace pig, and used multiple in-vivo and ex-vivo approaches including pharmacological challenges, electrophysiology and high-resolution mass spectrometry to explore how GLP-1 elicits an increase in heart rate. In anaesthetized pigs, neither cervical vagotomy, adrenergic blockers (alpha, beta or combined alpha-beta blockade), ganglionic blockade (hexamethonium) nor inhibition of hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels (ivabradine) abolished the marked chronotropic effect of GLP-1. GLP-1 administration to isolated perfused pig hearts also increased heart rate, which was abolished by GLP-1 receptor blockade. Electrophysiological characterization of GLP-1 effects in vivo and in isolated perfused hearts localized electrical modulation to the atria and conduction system. In isolated sinus nodes, GLP-1 administration shortened action potential cycle length of pacemaker cells and shifted the site of earliest activation. The effect was independent of HCN blockade. Collectively, these data support a direct effect of GLP-1 on GLP-1 receptors within the heart. Consistently, single nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNAseq) showed GLP-1 receptor expression in porcine pacemaker cells. Quantitative phosphoproteomics analyses of sinus node samples revealed that GLP-1 administration leads to phosphorylation changes of calcium cycling proteins of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, known to regulate heart rate. CONCLUSION: GLP-1 has direct chronotropic effects on the heart mediated by GLP-1 receptors in pacemaker cells of the sinus node, inducing changes in action potential morphology and the leading pacemaker site through a calcium signaling response characterized by PKA-dependent phosphorylation of Ca2+ cycling proteins involved in pace making. Targeting the pacemaker calcium clock may be a strategy to lower heart rate in GLP-1 RA recipients.
PXD048968	38832940	A multi-omics approach to elucidate okadaic acid-induced changes in human HepaRG hepatocarcinoma cells. 	A multi-omics approach to elucidate okadaic acid-induced changes in human HepaRG hepatocarcinoma cells	HepaRG Cells, Liver Proteome, Muli-omics, Okadaic Acid, Phosphoproteome	Okadaic acid (OA), a prevalent marine biotoxin found in shellfish, is known for causing acute gastrointestinal symptoms. Despite its potential to reach the bloodstream and the liver, the hepatic effects of OA are not well understood, highlighting a significant research gap. This study aims to comprehensively elucidate the impact of OA on the liver by examining the transcriptome, proteome, and phosphoproteome alterations in human HepaRG liver cells exposed to non-cytotoxic OA concentrations. We employed an integrative multi-omics approach, encompassing RNA sequencing, shotgun proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and targeted DigiWest analysis. This enabled a detailed exploration of gene and protein expression changes, alongside phosphorylation patterns under OA treatment. The study reveals concentration- and time-dependent deregulation in gene and protein expression, with a significant down-regulation of xenobiotic and lipid metabolism pathways. Up-regulated pathways include actin crosslink formation and a deregulation of apoptotic pathways. Notably, our results revealed that OA, as a potent phosphatase inhibitor, induces alterations in actin filament organization. Phosphoproteomics data highlighted the importance of phosphorylation in enzyme activity regulation, particularly affecting proteins involved in the regulation of the cytoskeleton. OA's inhibition of PP2A further leads to various downstream effects, including alterations in protein translation and energy metabolism. This research expands the understanding of OA's systemic impact, emphasizing its role in modulating the phosphorylation landscape, which influences crucial cellular processes. The results underscore OA's multifaceted effects on the liver, particularly through PP2A inhibition, impacting xenobiotic metabolism, cytoskeletal dynamics, and energy homeostasis. These insights enhance our comprehension of OA's biological significance and potential health risks.
PXD050632	38834239	Diverse Fgfr1 signaling pathways and endocytic trafficking regulate mesoderm development. 	Diverse Fgfr1 signaling pathways and endocytic trafficking regulate early mesoderm development	FGF, cell adhesion, cell signaling, endocytic trafficking, kidney development, mesoderm development	The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) pathway is a conserved signaling pathway required for embryonic development. Activated FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1) drives multiple intracellular signaling cascade pathways, including ERK/MAPK and PI3K/AKT, collectively termed canonical signaling. However, unlike Fgfr1-null embryos, embryos containing hypomorphic mutations in Fgfr1 lacking the ability to activate canonical downstream signals are still able to develop to birth but exhibit severe defects in all mesodermal-derived tissues. The introduction of an additional signaling mutation further reduces the activity of Fgfr1, leading to earlier lethality, reduced somitogenesis, and more severe changes in transcriptional outputs. Genes involved in migration, ECM interaction, and phosphoinositol signaling were significantly downregulated, proteomic analysis identified changes in interactions with endocytic pathway components, and cells expressing mutant receptors show changes in endocytic trafficking. Together, we identified processes regulating early mesoderm development by mechanisms involving both canonical and noncanonical Fgfr1 pathways, including direct interaction with cell adhesion components and endocytic regulation.
PXD048201	38834297	DYRK1B blockade promotes tumoricidal macrophage activity in pancreatic cancer. 	DYRK1B blockade promotes tumoricidal macrophage activity in pancreatic cancer	Tyrosine Phosphorylation-regulated Kinase 1B (DYRK1B), pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC)	OBJECTIVE: Highly malignant pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterised by an abundant immunosuppressive and fibrotic tumour microenvironment (TME). Future therapeutic attempts will therefore demand the targeting of tumours and stromal compartments in order to be effective. Here we investigate whether dual specificity and tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1B (DYRK1B) fulfil these criteria and represent a promising anticancer target in PDAC. DESIGN: We used transplantation and autochthonous mouse models of PDAC with either genetic Dyrk1b loss or pharmacological DYRK1B inhibition, respectively. Mechanistic interactions between tumour cells and macrophages were studied in direct or indirect co-culture experiments. Histological analyses used tissue microarrays from patients with PDAC. Additional methodological approaches included bulk mRNA sequencing (transcriptomics) and proteomics (secretomics). RESULTS: We found that DYRK1B is mainly expressed by pancreatic epithelial cancer cells and modulates the influx and activity of TME-associated macrophages through effects on the cancer cells themselves as well as through the tumour secretome. Mechanistically, genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of DYRK1B strongly attracts tumoricidal macrophages and, in addition, downregulates the phagocytosis checkpoint and 'don't eat me' signal CD24 on cancer cells, resulting in enhanced tumour cell phagocytosis. Consequently, tumour cells lacking DYRK1B hardly expand in transplantation experiments, despite their rapid growth in culture. Furthermore, combining a small-molecule DYRK1B-directed therapy with mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition and conventional chemotherapy stalls the growth of established tumours and results in a significant extension of life span in a highly aggressive autochthonous model of PDAC. CONCLUSION: In light of DYRK inhibitors currently entering clinical phase testing, our data thus provide a novel and clinically translatable approach targeting both the cancer cell compartment and its microenvironment.
PXD051387	38834654	FTO deficiency in older livers exacerbates ferroptosis during ischaemia/reperfusion injury by upregulating ACSL4 and TFRC. 	FTO deficiency in older livers exacerbates ferroptosis during ischaemia/reperfusion injury by upregulating ACSL4 and TFRC	FTO deficiency, older livers exacerbates ferroptosis	Older livers are more prone to hepatic ischaemia/reperfusion injury (HIRI), which severely limits their utilization in liver transplantation. The potential mechanism remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate older livers exhibit increased ferroptosis during HIRI. Inhibiting ferroptosis significantly attenuates older HIRI phenotypes. Mass spectrometry reveals that fat mass and obesity-associated gene (FTO) expression is downregulated in older livers, especially during HIRI. Overexpressing FTO improves older HIRI phenotypes by inhibiting ferroptosis. Mechanistically, acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family 4 (ACSL4) and transferrin receptor protein 1 (TFRC), two key positive contributors to ferroptosis, are FTO targets. For ameliorative effect, FTO requires the inhibition of Acsl4 and Tfrc mRNA stability in a m6A-dependent manner. Furthermore, we demonstrate nicotinamide mononucleotide can upregulate FTO demethylase activity, suppressing ferroptosis and decreasing older HIRI. Collectively, these findings reveal an FTO-ACSL4/TFRC regulatory pathway that contributes to the pathogenesis of older HIRI, providing insight into the clinical translation of strategies related to the demethylase activity of FTO to improve graft function after older donor liver transplantation.
PXD052194	38836220	Proteomic and metabolomic analysis of GH deficiency-induced NAFLD in hypopituitarism: insights into oxidative stress. 	Proteomic analysis of the liver in hypophysectomy rats	GH deficiency, NAFLD, Phosphoproteomics, hypophysectomy rats	Objective: Individuals with hypopituitarism (HPs) have an increased risk of developing non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) due to growth hormone deficiency (GHD). We aimed to investigate the possible mechanisms underlying the relationship between GHD and NAFLD using proteomic and metabolomic insights. Methods: Serum metabolic alternations were assessed in male HPs using untargeted metabolomics. A rat model of HP was established through hypophysectomy, followed by recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) intervention. The mechanisms underlying GHD-mediated NAFLD were elucidated through the application of label-free proteomics and phosphorylation proteomics. Results: Metabolomic analysis revealed that biomarkers of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress, such as alanine, lactate, and creatine, were significantly elevated in HPs compared to age-matched controls. In rats, hypophysectomy led to marked hepatic steatosis, lipid peroxidation, and reduced glutathione (GSH), which were subsequently modulated by rhGH replacement. Proteomic analysis identified cytochrome P450s, mitochondrial translation elongation, and PPARA activating genes as the major distinguishing pathways in hypophysectomized rats. The processes of fatty acid transport, synthesis, oxidation, and NADP metabolism were tightly described. An enhanced regulation of peroxisome beta-oxidation and omega-oxidation, together with a decreased NADPH regeneration, may exacerbate oxidative stress. Phosphoproteome data showed downregulation of JAK2-STAT5B and upregulation of mTOR signaling pathway. Conclusions: This study identified proteo-metabolomic signatures associated with the development of NAFLD in pituitary GHD. Evidence was found of oxidative stress imbalance resulting from abnormal fatty acid oxidation and NADPH regeneration, highlighting the role of GH deficiency in the development of NAFLD.
PXD052742	38836774	Integrated Platform for Large-Scale Quantitative Profiling of Phosphotyrosine Signaling Complexes Based on Cofractionation/Mass Spectrometry and Complex-Centric Algorithm. 	Quantative pTyr protein complex	CF-MS, IEC, protein compelx	The scarcity and dynamic nature of phosphotyrosine (pTyr)-modified proteins pose a challenge for researching protein complexes with pTyr modification, which are assembled through multiple protein-protein interactions. We developed an integrated complex-centric platform for large-scale quantitative profiling of pTyr signaling complexes based on cofractionation/mass spectrometry (CoFrac-MS) and a complex-centric algorithm. We initially constructed a trifunctional probe based on pTyr superbinder (SH2-S) for specifically binding and isolation of intact pTyr protein complexes. Then, the CoFrac-MS strategy was employed for the identification of pTyr protein complexes by integrating ion exchange chromatography in conjunction with data independent acquisition mass spectrometry. Furthermore, we developed a novel complex-centric algorithm for quantifying protein complexes based on the protein complex elution curve. Utilizing this algorithm, we effectively quantified 216 putative protein complexes. We further screened 21 regulated pTyr protein complexes related to the epidermal growth factor signal. Our study engenders a comprehensive framework for the intricate examination of pTyr protein complexes and presents, for the foremost occasion, a quantitative landscape delineating the composition of pTyr protein complexes in HeLa cells.
PXD035803	38837176	Differential responses to aging amongst the transcriptome and proteome of mesenchymal progenitor populations. 	Integrative transcriptomic and proteomic analysis show circulating osteoprogenitors to have a mixed immune and mesenchymal progenitor function in humans	Adipose-derived stromal cells., Circulating Osteoprogenitor cell, Circulating osteogenic precursor, Multilineage Stromal cells	The biological aging of stem cells (exhaustion) is proposed to contribute to the development of a variety of age-related conditions. Despite this, little is understood about the specific mechanisms which drive this process. In this study, we assess the transcriptomic and proteomic changes in three different populations of mesenchymal progenitor cells from older (50-70 years) and younger (20-40 years) individuals to uncover potential mechanisms driving stem cell exhaustion in mesenchymal tissues. To do this, we harvested primary bone marrow mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs), circulating osteoprogenitors (COP), and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) from younger and older donors, with an equal number of samples from males and females. These samples underwent RNA sequencing and label-free proteomic analysis, comparing the younger samples to the older ones. There was a distinct transcriptomic phenotype in the analysis of pooled older stem cells, suggestive of suppressed proliferation and differentiation; however, these changes were not reflected in the proteome of the cells. Analyzed independently, older MPCs had a distinct phenotype in both the transcriptome and proteome consistent with altered differentiation and proliferation with a pro-inflammatory immune shift in older adults. COP cells showed a transcriptomic shift to pro-inflammatory signaling but no consistent proteomic phenotype. Similarly, ADSCs displayed transcriptomic shifts in physiologies associated with cell migration, adherence, and immune activation but no proteomic change with age. These results show that there are underlying transcriptomic changes with stem cell aging that may contribute to a decline in tissue regeneration. However, the proteome of the cells was inconsistently regulated.
PXD048158	38837686	SIRT5-Mediated Desuccinylation of RAB7A Protects Against Cadmium-Induced Alzheimer's Disease-Like Pathology by Restoring Autophagic Flux. 	Succinylation proteome analysis of Cd-exposed Neuro-2a cells	Cd, Neuro-2a cells, Succinylation proteome analysis	Cadmium (Cd) is a neurotoxic contaminant that induces cognitive decline similar to that observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Autophagic flux dysfunction is attributed to the pathogenesis of AD, and this study aimed to investigate the effect of autophagy on environmental Cd-induced AD progression and the underlying mechanism. Here, Cd exposure inhibited autophagosome-lysosome fusion and impaired lysosomal function, leading to defects in autophagic clearance and then to APP accumulation and nerve cell death. Proteomic analysis coupled with Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) identified SIRT5 as an essential molecular target in Cd-impaired autophagic flux. Mechanistically, Cd exposure hampered the expression of SIRT5, thus increasing the succinylation of RAB7A at lysine 31 and inhibiting RAB7A activity, which contributed to autophagic flux blockade. Importantly, SIRT5 overexpression led to the restoration of autophagic flux blockade, the alleviation of Abeta deposition and memory deficits, and the desuccinylation of RAB7A in Cd-exposed FAD(4T) mice. Additionally, SIRT5 levels decrease mainly in neurons but not in other cell clusters in the brains of AD patients according to single-nucleus RNA sequencing data from the public dataset GSE188545. This study reveals that SIRT5-catalysed RAB7A desuccinylation is an essential adaptive mechanism for the amelioration of Cd-induced autophagic flux blockade and AD-like pathogenesis.
PXD039800	38838015	OGA mutant aberrantly hydrolyzes O-GlcNAc modification from PDLIM7 to modulate p53 and cytoskeleton in promoting cancer cell malignancy. 	Proteome of OGA stalk domain mutants	OGA, Stalk domain	O-GlcNAcase (OGA) is the only human enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis (deglycosylation) of O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosaminylation (O-GlcNAcylation) from numerous protein substrates. OGA has broad implications in many challenging diseases including cancer. However, its role in cell malignancy remains mostly unclear. Here, we report that a cancer-derived point mutation on the OGA's noncatalytic stalk domain aberrantly modulates OGA interactome and substrate deglycosylation toward a specific set of proteins. Interestingly, our quantitative proteomic studies uncovered that the OGA stalk domain mutant preferentially deglycosylated protein substrates with +2 proline in the sequence relative to the O-GlcNAcylation site. One of the most dysregulated substrates is PDZ and LIM domain protein 7 (PDLIM7), which is associated with the tumor suppressor p53. We found that the aberrantly deglycosylated PDLIM7 suppressed p53 gene expression and accelerated p53 protein degradation by promoting the complex formation with E3 ubiquitin ligase MDM2. Moreover, deglycosylated PDLIM7 significantly up-regulated the actin-rich membrane protrusions on the cell surface, augmenting the cancer cell motility and aggressiveness. These findings revealed an important but previously unappreciated role of OGA's stalk domain in protein substrate recognition and functional modulation during malignant cell progression.
PXD039875	38838133	High-throughput mass spectrometry maps the sepsis plasma proteome and differences in patient response. 	High-throughput mass spectrometry maps the sepsis plasma proteome and differences in response	Sepsis, plasma, precision medicine, sub-phenotyping, transcriptomics	Sepsis, the dysregulated host response to infection causing life-threatening organ dysfunction, is a global health challenge requiring better understanding of pathophysiology and new therapeutic approaches. Here, we applied high-throughput tandem mass spectrometry to delineate the plasma proteome for sepsis and comparator groups (noninfected critical illness, postoperative inflammation, and healthy volunteers) involving 2612 samples (from 1611 patients) and 4553 liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses acquired through a single batch of continuous measurements, with a throughput of 100 samples per day. We show how this scale of data can delineate proteins, pathways, and coexpression modules in sepsis and be integrated with paired leukocyte transcriptomic data (837 samples from n = 649 patients). We mapped the plasma proteomic landscape of the host response in sepsis, including changes over time, and identified features relating to etiology, clinical phenotypes (including organ failures), and severity. This work reveals subphenotypes informative for sepsis response state, disease processes, and outcome; identifies potential biomarkers; and advances opportunities for a precision medicine approach to sepsis.
PXD046982	38838227	Affimer reagents as tool molecules to modulate platelet GPVI-ligand interactions and specifically bind GPVI dimer. 	Affimer reagents as tools to modulate GPVI-ligand interactions	GPVI, HDX-MS	Glycoprotein (GP)VI plays a key role in collagen-induced platelet aggregation. Affimers are engineered binding protein alternatives to antibodies. We screened and characterized GPVI-binding Affimers as novel tools to probe GPVI function. Among the positive clones, M17, D22 and D18 bound GPVI with the highest affinities (KD in the nM range). These Affimers inhibited GPVI-CRP-XL/collagen interactions, CRP-XL/collagen induced platelet aggregation and D22 also inhibited in vitro thrombus formation on a collagen surface under flow. D18 bound GPVI dimer but not monomer. GPVI binding was increased for D18 but not M17/D22 upon platelet activation by CRP-XL and ADP. D22 but not M17/D18 displaced nanobody2 (Nb2) binding to GPVI, indicating similar epitopes for D22 with Nb2 but not for M17/D18. Mapping of binding sites revealed that D22 binds a site that overlaps with Nb2 on the D1-domain, while M17 targets a site on the D2-domain, overlapping in part with the glenzocimab binding site, a humanized GPVI antibody Fab-fragment. D18 targets a new region on the D2-domain. We found that D18 is a stable non-covalent dimer and forms a stable complex with dimeric GPVI with 1:1 stoichiometry. Taken together, our data demonstrate that Affimers modulate GPVI-ligand interactions and bind different sites on GPVI D1/D2-domains. D18 is dimer-specific and could be used as a tool to detect GPVI dimerization or clustering in platelets. A dimeric epitope regulating ligand binding was identified on the GPVI D2-domain, which could be used for the development of novel bivalent antithrombotic agents selectively targeting GPVI dimer on platelets.
PXD052814	38838737	Structure and topography of the synaptic V-ATPase-synaptophysin complex. 	Structure and Topography of the Synaptic V-ATPase-Synaptophysin Complex	V-ATPase	Synaptic vesicles are organelles with a precisely defined protein and lipid composition(1,2), yet the molecular mechanisms for the biogenesis of synaptic vesicles are mainly unknown. Here, we discovered a well-defined interface between the synaptic vesicle V-ATPase and synaptophysin by in situ cryo-electron tomography and single particle cryo-electron microscopy of functional synaptic vesicles isolated from mouse brains(3). The synaptic vesicle V-ATPase is an ATP-dependent proton pump that establishes the protein gradient across the synaptic vesicle, which in turn drives the uptake of neurotransmitters(4,5). Synaptophysin(6) and its paralogs synaptoporin(7) and synaptogyrin(8) belong to a family of abundant synaptic vesicle proteins whose function is still unclear. We performed structural and functional studies of synaptophysin knockout mice, confirming the identity of synaptophysin as an interaction partner with the V-ATPase. Although there is little change in the conformation of the V-ATPase upon interaction with synaptophysin, the presence of synaptophysin in synaptic vesicles profoundly affects the copy number of V-ATPases. This effect on the topography of synaptic vesicles suggests that synaptophysin assists in their biogenesis. In support of this model, we observed that synaptophysin knockout mice exhibit severe seizure susceptibility, suggesting an imbalance of neurotransmitter release as a physiological consequence of the absence of synaptophysin.
PXD050908	38839037	Systematic engineering for production of anti-aging sunscreen compound in Pseudomonas putida. 	Systematic engineering for production of anti-aging sunscreen compound in Pseudomonas putida	CRISPR interference (CRISPRi), Pseudomonas, genome-scale model, mycosporine-like amino acid (MAA), natural products	Sunscreen has been used for thousands of years to protect skin from ultraviolet radiation. However, the use of modern commercial sunscreen containing oxybenzone, ZnO, and TiO2 has raised concerns due to their negative effects on human health and the environment. In this study, we aim to establish an efficient microbial platform for production of shinorine, a UV light absorbing compound with anti-aging properties. First, we methodically selected an appropriate host for shinorine production by analyzing central carbon flux distribution data from prior studies alongside predictions from genome-scale metabolic models (GEMs). We enhanced shinorine productivity through CRISPRi-mediated downregulation and utilized shotgun proteomics to pinpoint potential competing pathways. Simultaneously, we improved the shinorine biosynthetic pathway by refining its design, optimizing promoter usage, and altering the strength of ribosome binding sites. Finally, we conducted amino acid feeding experiments under various conditions to identify the key limiting factors in shinorine production. The study combines meta-analysis of (13)C-metabolic flux analysis, GEMs, synthetic biology, CRISPRi-mediated gene downregulation, and omics analysis to improve shinorine production, demonstrating the potential of Pseudomonas putida KT2440 as platform for shinorine production.
PXD042810	38839039	Cerebrospinal Fluid Proteome Map Reveals Molecular Signatures of Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome. 	Cerebrospinal Fluid Proteome Map Reveals Molecular Signatures of Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome	Blood-brain barrier, Cerebrospinal fluid, Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS)	Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is a complex neurovascular disorder characterized by repetitive thunderclap headaches and reversible cerebral vasoconstriction. The pathophysiological mechanism of this mysterious syndrome remains under-explored and there is no clinically available molecular biomarker. To provide insight into the pathogenesis of RCVS, this study reported the first landscape of dysregulated proteome of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in patients with RCVS (n = 21) compared to the age- and sex-matched controls (n = 20) using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS). Protein-protein interaction and functional enrichment analysis were employed to construct functional protein networks using the RCVS proteome. An RCVS-CSF proteome library resource of 1,054 proteins was established, which illuminated large groups of upregulated proteins enriched in the brain and blood-brain barrier (BBB). Personalized RCVS-CSF proteomic profiles from 17 RCVS patients and 20 controls reveal proteomic changes involving the complement system, adhesion molecules, and extracellular matrix, which may contribute to the disruption of BBB and dysregulation of neurovascular units. Moreover, an additional validation cohort validated a panel of biomarker candidates and a two-protein signature predicted by machine learning model to discriminate RCVS patients from controls with an area under the curve of 0.997. This study reveals the first RCVS proteome and a potential pathogenetic mechanism of BBB and neurovascular unit dysfunction. It also nominates potential biomarker candidates that are mechanistically plausible for RCVS, which may offer potential diagnostic and therapeutic opportunities beyond the clinical manifestations.
PXD048524	38839758	Cauldrons of Bronze Age nomads reveals 2700 year old yak milk and the deep antiquity of food preparation techniques. 	Cauldrons of Bronze Age nomads	ancient proteins, archaeology, blood, milk	Cauldrons, vessels that are simultaneously common and enigmatic, offer insights into past cultural and social traditions. While assumed to possess a special function, what these cauldrons contained is still largely mysterious. These vessels, such as those made from bronze or copper alloys, function as reservoirs for ancient organics through the antibacterial qualities provided by the metal surfaces. Here we show, through protein analysis, that cauldrons from the Final Bronze Age (ca. 2700 BP) were primarily used to collect blood from ruminants, primarily caprines, likely for the production of sausages in a manner similar to contemporary practices in Mongolia's rural countryside. Our findings present a different function from the recent findings of cooked meat in copper-alloy vessels from the northern Caucasus 2000 years earlier, exposing the diversity in food preparation techniques. Our secondary findings of bovine milk within the cauldron, including peptides specific to Bos mutus, pushes back their regional domestication into the Bronze Age.
PXD052206	38840773	Chemoproteomics enables identification of coatomer subunit zeta-1 targeted by a small molecule for enterovirus A71 inhibition. 	Chemoproteomics enables identification of coatomer  subunit zeta-1 targeted by a small molecule for enterovirus A71 inhibition	chemoproteomics EV-A71-infected human rhabdomyosarcoma (RD) cells, coatomer subunit zeta-1, enterovirus A71, marinopyrrole A derivate	Human enterovirus A71 (EV-A71) is a significant etiological agent responsible for epidemics of hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD) in Asia-Pacific regions. There are presently no licensed antivirals against EV-A71, and the druggable target for EV-A71 remains very limited. The phenotypic hit 10,10'-bis(trifluoromethyl) marinopyrrole A derivative, herein termed MPA-CF3, is a novel potent small-molecule inhibitor against EV-A71, but its pharmacological target(s) and antiviral mechanisms are not defined. Here, quantitative chemoproteomics deciphered the antiviral target of MAP-CF3 as host factor coatomer subunit zeta-1 (COPZ1). Mechanistically, MPA-CF3 disrupts the interaction of COPZ1 with the EV-A71 nonstructural protein 2C by destabilizing COPZ1 upon binding. The destruction of this interaction blocks the coatomer-mediated transport of 2C to endoplasmic reticulum, and ultimately inhibits EV-A71 replication. Taken together, our study disclosed that MPA-CF3 can be a structurally novel host-targeting anti-EV-A71 agent, providing a structural basis for developing the COPZ1-targeting broad-spectrum antivirals against enteroviruses. The mechanistic elucidation of MPA-CF3 against EV-A71 may offer an alternative COPZ1-involved therapeutic pathway for enterovirus infection.
PXD045778	38840842	Unveiling the dynamics of acetylation and phosphorylation in SGBS and 3T3-L1 adipogenesis. 	Phosphoproteome dynamics during differentiation of 3T3-L1 adipocytes	3T3-L1, Phosphoproteome, adipocytes, adipogenesis, temporal dynamics	Obesity, characterized by enlarged and dysfunctional adipose tissue, is among today's most pressing global public health challenges with continuously increasing prevalence. Despite the importance of post-translational protein modifications (PTMs) in cellular signaling, knowledge of their impact on adipogenesis remains limited. Here, we studied the temporal dynamics of transcriptome, proteome, central carbon metabolites, and the acetyl- and phosphoproteome during adipogenesis using LC-MS/MS combined with PTM enrichment strategies on human (SGBS) and mouse (3T3-L1) adipocyte models. Both cell lines exhibited unique PTM profiles during adipogenesis, with acetylated proteins being enriched for central energy metabolism, while phosphorylated proteins related to insulin signaling and organization of cellular structures. As candidates with strong correlation to the adipogenesis timeline we identified CD44 and the acetylation sites FASN_K673 and IDH_K272. While results generally aligned between SGBS and 3T3-L1 cells, details appeared cell line specific. Our datasets on SGBS and 3T3-L1 adipogenesis dynamics are accessible for further mining.
PXD035815	38841404	RapidAIM 2.0: a high-throughput assay to study functional response of human gut microbiome to xenobiotics. 	RapidAIM 2.0: a high-throughput assay to study functional response of human gut microbiome to xenobiotics	human gut microbiome, in vitro culture, metaproteomics	Aim: Our gut microbiome has its own functionalities which can be modulated by various xenobiotic and biotic components. The development and application of a high-throughput functional screening approach of individual gut microbiomes accelerates drug discovery and our understanding of microbiome-drug interactions. We previously developed the rapid assay of individual microbiome (RapidAIM), which combined an optimized culturing model with metaproteomics to study gut microbiome responses to xenobiotics. In this study, we aim to incorporate automation and multiplexing techniques into RapidAIM to develop a high-throughput protocol. Methods: To develop a 2.0 version of RapidAIM, we automated the protein analysis protocol, and introduced a tandem mass tag (TMT) multiplexing technique. To demonstrate the typical outcome of the protocol, we used RapidAIM 2.0 to evaluate the effect of prebiotic kestose on ex vivo individual human gut microbiomes biobanked with five different workflows. Results: We describe the protocol of RapidAIM 2.0 with extensive details on stool sample collection, biobanking, in vitro culturing and stimulation, sample processing, metaproteomics measurement, and data analysis. The analysis depth of 5,014 +/- 142 protein groups per multiplexed sample was achieved. A test on five biobanking methods using RapidAIM 2.0 showed the minimal effect of sample processing on live microbiota functional responses to kestose. Conclusions: Depth and reproducibility of RapidAIM 2.0 are comparable to previous manual label-free metaproteomic analyses. In the meantime, the protocol realizes culturing and sample preparation of 320 samples in six days, opening the door to extensively understanding the effects of xenobiotic and biotic factors on our internal ecology.
PXD038775	38842303	Integration of Epigenome and Lactylome Reveals the Regulation of Lipid Production in Nannochloropsis oceanica. 	Analysis of lactylome refines key molecular reprogramming mechanisms during oil production in Nannochloropsis oceanica	LC-MS, Nannochloropsis, Nitrogene deprivation, lactylation, lactylome	Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a kind of novel post-translational modification (PTM) that participates in gene expression and various metabolic processes. Nannochloropsis has a remarkable capacity for triacylglycerol (TAG) production under nitrogen stress. To elucidate the involvement of lactylation in lipid synthesis, we conducted chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) and mRNA-seq analyses to monitor lactylation modifications and transcriptome alterations in Nannochloropsis oceanica. In all, 2057 genes showed considerable variation between nitrogen deprivation (ND) and nitrogen repletion (NR) conditions. Moreover, a total of 5375 differential Kla peaks were identified, including 5331 gain peaks and 44 loss peaks under ND vs NR. The differential Kla peaks were primarily distributed in the promoter (<=1 kb) (71.07%), 5'UTR (22.64%), and exon (4.25%). Integrative analysis of ChIP-seq, transcriptome, and previous proteome and lactylome data elucidates the potential mechanism by which lactylation promotes lipid accumulation under ND. Lactylation facilitates autophagy and protein degradation, leading to the recycling of carbon into the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, thereby providing carbon precursors for lipid synthesis. Additionally, lactylation induces the redirection of carbon from membrane lipids to TAG by upregulating lipases and enhancing the TCA cycle and beta-oxidation pathways. This research offers a new perspective for the investigation of lipid biosynthesis in Nannochloropsis.
PXD048023	38842922	Increased transcriptional elongation and RNA stability of GPCR ligand binding genes unveiled via RNA polymerase II degradation. 	Activation of GPCR ligand binding genes revealed through degradation of RNA polymerase II	RNA Pol II, degron	RNA polymerase II drives mRNA gene expression, yet our understanding of Pol II degradation is limited. Using auxin-inducible degron, we degraded Pol II's RPB1 subunit, resulting in global repression. Surprisingly, certain genes exhibited increased RNA levels post-degradation. These genes are associated with GPCR ligand binding and are characterized by being less paused and comprising polycomb-bound short genes. RPB1 degradation globally increased KDM6B binding, which was insufficient to explain specific gene activation. In contrast, RPB2 degradation repressed nearly all genes, accompanied by decreased H3K9me3 and SUV39H1 occupancy. We observed a specific increase in serine 2 phosphorylated Pol II and RNA stability for RPB1 degradation-upregulated genes. Additionally, alpha-amanitin or UV treatment resulted in RPB1 degradation and global gene repression, unveiling subsets of upregulated genes. Our findings highlight the activated transcription elongation and increased RNA stability of signaling genes as potential mechanisms for mammalian cells to counter RPB1 degradation during stress.
PXD049417	38843767	Deciphering pathophysiological mechanisms underlying cystathionine beta-synthase-deficient homocystinuria using targeted metabolomics, liver proteomics, sphingolipidomics and analysis of mitochondrial function. 	Multiomics approach to decipher pathophysiological mechanisms and therapeutic impact of methionine restriction in cystathionine beta-synthase deficient homocystinuria	Cystathionine beta-synthase, homocystinuria, metabolomics, methionine restriction	BACKGROUND: Cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS)-deficient homocystinuria (HCU) is an inherited disorder of sulfur amino acid metabolism with varying severity and organ complications, and a limited knowledge about underlying pathophysiological processes. Here we aimed at getting an in-depth insight into disease mechanisms using a transgenic mouse model of HCU (I278T). METHODS: We assessed metabolic, proteomic and sphingolipidomic changes, and mitochondrial function in tissues and body fluids of I278T mice and WT controls. Furthermore, we evaluated the efficacy of methionine-restricted diet (MRD) in I278T mice. RESULTS: In WT mice, we observed a distinct tissue/body fluid compartmentalization of metabolites with up to six-orders of magnitude differences in concentrations among various organs. The I278T mice exhibited the anticipated metabolic imbalance with signs of an increased production of hydrogen sulfide and disturbed persulfidation of free aminothiols. HCU resulted in a significant dysregulation of liver proteome affecting biological oxidations, conjugation of compounds, and metabolism of amino acids, vitamins, cofactors and lipids. Liver sphingolipidomics indicated upregulation of the pro-proliferative sphingosine-1-phosphate signaling pathway. Liver mitochondrial function of HCU mice did not seem to be impaired compared to controls. MRD in I278T mice improved metabolic balance in all tissues and substantially reduced dysregulation of liver proteome. CONCLUSION: The study highlights distinct tissue compartmentalization of sulfur-related metabolites in normal mice, extensive metabolome, proteome and sphingolipidome disruptions in I278T mice, and the efficacy of MRD to alleviate some of the HCU-related biochemical abnormalities.
PXD050552	38844135	The ubiquitin E3 ligase APC/C(Cdc20) mediates mitotic degradation of OGT. 	The ubiquitin E3 ligase APC/CCdc20 mediates mitotic degradation of OGT	APC/CCdc20, OGT, cell cycle, ubiquitination, uterine carcinoma	O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT) is the sole enzyme that catalyzes all O-GlcNAcylation reactions intracellularly. Previous investigations have found that OGT levels oscillate during the cell division process. Specifically, OGT abundance is downregulated during mitosis, but the underlying mechanism is lacking. Here we demonstrate that OGT is ubiquitinated by the ubiquitin E3 ligase, anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C)-cell division cycle 20 (Cdc20). We show that APC/C(Cdc20) interacts with OGT through a conserved destruction box (D-box): Arg-351/Leu-354, the abrogation of which stabilizes OGT. As APC/C(Cdc20)-substrate binding is often preceded by a priming ubiquitination event, we also used mass spectrometry and mapped OGT Lys-352 to be a ubiquitination site, which is a prerequisite for OGT association with APC/C subunits. Interestingly in The Cancer Genome Atlas, R351C is a uterine carcinoma mutant, suggesting that mutations of the D-box are linked with tumorigenesis. Paradoxically, we found that both R351C and the D-box mutants (R351A/L354A) inhibit uterine carcinoma in mouse xenograft models, probably due to impaired cell division and proliferation. In sum, we propose a model where OGT Lys-352 ubiquitination primes its binding with APC/C, and then APC/C(Cdc20) partners with OGT through the D-box for its mitotic destruction. Our work not only highlights the key mechanism that regulates OGT during the cell cycle, but also reveals the mutual coordination between glycosylation and the cell division machinery.
PXD043827	38844137	Poglut2/3 double knockout in mice results in neonatal lethality with reduced levels of fibrillin in lung tissues. 	Loss of POGLUT2 and 3 eliminates O-glucose at predicted sites but does not alter other modifications on EGFs	O-glycosylation, POGLUT2, POGLUT3, extracellular, fibrillin-1, primary fibroblasts	Fibrillin microfibrils play a critical role in the formation of elastic fibers, tissue/organ development, and cardiopulmonary function. These microfibrils not only provide structural support and flexibility to tissues, but they also regulate growth factor signaling through a plethora of microfibril-binding proteins in the extracellular space. Mutations in fibrillins are associated with human diseases affecting cardiovascular, pulmonary, skeletal, and ocular systems. Fibrillins consist of up to 47 epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like repeats, of which more than half are modified by protein O-glucosyltransferase 2 (POGLUT2) and/or POGLUT3. Loss of these modifications reduces secretion of N-terminal fibrillin constructs overexpressed in vitro. Here, we investigated the role of POGLUT2 and POGLUT3 in vivo using a Poglut2/3 double knockout (DKO) mouse model. Blocking O-glucosylation caused neonatal death with skeletal, pulmonary, and eye defects reminiscent of fibrillin/elastin mutations. Proteomic analyses of DKO dermal fibroblast medium and extracellular matrix provided evidence that fibrillins were more sensitive to loss of O-glucose compared to other POGLUT2/3 substrates. This conclusion was supported by immunofluorescent analyses of late gestation DKO lungs where FBN levels were reduced and microfibrils appeared fragmented in the pulmonary arteries and veins, bronchioles, and developing saccules. Defects in fibrillin microfibrils likely contributed to impaired elastic fiber formation and histological changes observed in DKO lung blood vessels, bronchioles, and saccules. Collectively, these results highlight the importance of POGLUT2/3-mediated O-glucosylation in vivo and open the possibility that O-glucose modifications on fibrillin influence microfibril assembly and or protein interactions in the ECM environment.
PXD050386	38845157	Proteomic Analysis of Caco-2 Cells Disrupted by EcN 1917-Derived OMVs Reveals Molecular Information on Bacteria-Mediated Cancer Cell Migration. 	Cellular  proteomic perturbed by bacterial OMVs reveals molecular information on bacteria-mediated cancer cell migration	ANXA9, Ecn 1917, OMVs, proteimics	Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 (EcN 1917) exhibits distinct tumor-targeting activity, and early studies demonstrated that outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) mediate bacteria-host interactions. To decipher the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between EcN 1917 and host cells via OMV-mediated communication, we investigated the phenotypic changes in Caco-2 cells perturbed by EcN 1917-derived OMVs and constructed proteomic maps of the EcN 1917-derived OMV components and OMV-perturbed host cells. Our findings revealed that the size of the EcN 1917-derived OMV proteome increased 4-fold. Treatment with EcN 1917-derived OMVs altered the proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiles of host cells. Importantly, for the first time, we found that treatment with EcN 1917-derived OMVs inhibited cancer cell migration by suppressing the expression of ANXA9. In addition, phosphoproteomic data suggested that the ErbB pathway may be involved in OMV-mediated cell migration. Taken together, our study provides valuable data for further investigations of OMV-mediated bacteria-host interactions and offers great insights into the underlying mechanism of probiotic-assisted colorectal cancer therapy.
PXD045304	38847081	Novel Multiplexed Plasma Biomarker Panel Has Diagnostic and Prognostic Potential in Children With Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy. 	A new multiplexed plasma biomarker panel developed using targeted proteomics and machine learning has diagnostic and prognostic potential in children with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	Childhood-onset HCM proteomics	BACKGROUND: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is defined clinically by pathological left ventricular hypertrophy. We have previously developed a plasma proteomics biomarker panel that correlates with clinical markers of disease severity and sudden cardiac death risk in adult patients with HCM. The aim of this study was to investigate the utility of adult biomarkers and perform new discoveries in proteomics in childhood-onset HCM. METHODS: Fifty-nine protein biomarkers were identified from an exploratory plasma proteomics screen in children with HCM and augmented into our existing multiplexed targeted liquid chromatography-tandem/mass spectrometry-based assay. The association of these biomarkers with clinical phenotypes and outcomes was prospectively tested in plasma collected from 148 children with HCM and 50 healthy controls. Machine learning techniques were used to develop novel pediatric plasma proteomic biomarker panels. RESULTS: Four previously identified adult HCM markers (aldolase fructose-bisphosphate A, complement C3a, talin-1, and thrombospondin 1) and 3 new markers (glycogen phosphorylase B, lipoprotein a, and profilin 1) were elevated in pediatric HCM. Using supervised machine learning applied to training (n=137) and validation cohorts (n=61), this 7-biomarker panel differentiated HCM from healthy controls with an area under the curve of 1.0 in the training data set (sensitivity 100% [95% CI, 95-100]; specificity 100% [95% CI, 96-100]) and 0.82 in the validation data set (sensitivity 75% [95% CI, 59-86]; specificity 88% [95% CI, 75-94]). Reduced circulating levels of 4 other peptides (apolipoprotein L1, complement 5b, immunoglobulin heavy constant epsilon, and serum amyloid A4 peptides) found in children with high sudden cardiac death risk provided complete separation from the low and intermediate risk groups and predicted mortality and adverse arrhythmic outcomes (hazard ratio, 2.04 [95% CI, 1.0-4.2]; P=0.044). CONCLUSIONS: In children, a 7-biomarker proteomics panel can distinguish HCM from controls with high sensitivity and specificity, and a second 4-biomarker panel identifies those at high risk of adverse arrhythmic outcomes, including sudden cardiac death.
PXD044801	38848214	Role of the afferent lymph as an immunological conduit to analyze tissue antigenic and inflammatory load. 	Label free-DDA nano-LC/MS/MS analysis of Human Mesenteric lymph collected from Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) subjects.	Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Lable free-DDA, Lymph, Lymphatics	The lymphatic fluid is the conduit by which part of the tissue "omics" is transported to the draining lymph node for immunosurveillance. Following cannulation of the pre-nodal cervical and mesenteric afferent lymphatics, herein we investigate the lymph proteomic composition, uncovering that its composition varies according to the tissue of origin. Tissue specificity is also reflected in the dendritic cell-major histocompatibility complex class II-eluted immunopeptidome harvested from the cervical and mesenteric nodes. Following inflammatory disruption of the gut barrier, the lymph antigenic and inflammatory loads are analyzed in both mice and subjects with inflammatory bowel diseases. Gastrointestinal tissue damage reflects the lymph inflammatory and damage-associated molecular pattern signatures, microbiome-derived by-products, and immunomodulatory molecules, including metabolites of the gut-brain axis, mapped in the afferent mesenteric lymph. Our data point to the relevance of the lymphatic fluid to probe the tissue-specific antigenic and inflammatory load transported to the draining lymph node for immunosurveillance.
PXD046034	38848995	Histone chaperone deficiency in Arabidopsis plants triggers adaptive epigenetic changes in histone variants and modifications. 	Adaptive epigenetic changes in histone variants and modifications rescue the fitness of Arabidopsis plants with dysfunctional histone chaperones	Chromatin remodeling, histone chaperone complex, histone variants, immunochemistry., post-translational modifications	At the molecular scale, adaptive advantages during plant growth and development rely on modulation of gene expression, primarily provided by epigenetic machinery. One crucial part of this machinery is histone post-translational modifications (PTMs), which form a flexible system, driving transient changes in chromatin and defining particular epigenetic states. PTMs work in concert with replication-independent histone variants further adapted for transcriptional regulation and chromatin repair. However, little is known about how such complex regulatory pathways are orchestrated and interconnected in cells. In this work, we demonstrate the utility of mass spectrometry-based approaches to explore how different epigenetic layers interact in Arabidopsis mutants lacking certain histone chaperones. We show that defects in histone chaperone function (e.g., CAF-1 or NAP1 mutations) translate into an altered epigenetic landscape, which aids the plant in mitigating internal instability. We observe changes in both the levels and distribution of H2A.W.7, altogether with partial repurposing of H3.3 and changes in the key repressive (H3K27me1/2) or euchromatic marks (H3K36me1/2). These shifts in the epigenetic profile serve as a compensatory mechanism in response to impaired integration of the H3.1 histone in the fas1 mutants. Altogether, our findings suggest that maintaining genome stability involves a two-tiered approach. The first relies on flexible adjustments in histone marks, while the second level requires the assistance of chaperones for histone variant replacement.
PXD049967	38849085	Aging-related Alterations in mTOR Signaling Promote Platelet Hyperreactivity and Thrombosis. 	Aging-related Alterations in mTOR Signaling Promote Platelet Hyperreactivity and Thrombosis	aging, phosphoproteome, platelets, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tag, thrombosis	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Aging is an independent risk factor for the development of cardiovascular, thrombotic and other chronic diseases. However, mechanisms of platelet hyperactivation in aging remain poorly understood. Here, we examine whether and how aging alters intracellular signaling in platelets to support platelet hyperactivity and thrombosis. METHODS: Quantitative mass spectrometry with tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling systematically measured protein phosphorylation in platelets from healthy aged (>65 years) and young human (<45 years) subjects. The role of platelet mTOR in aging-induced platelet hyperreactivity was assessed using pharmacological mTOR inhibition and a platelet-specific mTOR-deficient mouse model (mTOR(plt-/-)). RESULTS: Quantitative phosphoproteomics uncovered differential site-specific protein phosphorylation within mTOR, Rho GTPase and MAPK pathways in platelets from aged donors. Western blot confirmed constitutive activation of the mTOR pathway in platelets from both aged humans and mice, which was associated with increased aggregation compared to young controls. Inhibition of mTOR either with Torin 1 in aged humans, or genetic deletion in aged mice, reversed platelet hyperreactivity. In a collagen-epinephrine pulmonary thrombosis model, aged wild-type (mTOR(plt+/+)) mice succumbed significantly faster compared to young controls, while time to death of aged mTOR(plt-/-) mice was similar to young mTOR(plt+/+) mice. Mechanistically, we noted increased Rac1 activation and levels of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species in resting platelets from aged mice, as well as increased p38 phosphorylation upstream of thromboxane generation following agonist stimulation. CONCLUSION: Aging-related changes in mTOR phosphorylation enhance Rac1 and p38 activation, to enhance thromboxane generation, platelet hyperactivity and thrombosis.
PXD044863	38849541	Valine aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase promotes therapy resistance in melanoma. 	Label free proteomic experiment using M395 sensitive and resistance melanoma cultures to targeted therapy	Human cells, Melanoma, resistance, targeted therapy	Transfer RNA dynamics contribute to cancer development through regulation of codon-specific messenger RNA translation. Specific aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases can either promote or suppress tumourigenesis. Here we show that valine aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase (VARS) is a key player in the codon-biased translation reprogramming induced by resistance to targeted (MAPK) therapy in melanoma. The proteome rewiring in patient-derived MAPK therapy-resistant melanoma is biased towards the usage of valine and coincides with the upregulation of valine cognate tRNAs and of VARS expression and activity. Strikingly, VARS knockdown re-sensitizes MAPK-therapy-resistant patient-derived melanoma in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, VARS regulates the messenger RNA translation of valine-enriched transcripts, among which hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase mRNA encodes for a key enzyme in fatty acid oxidation. Resistant melanoma cultures rely on fatty acid oxidation and hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase for their survival upon MAPK treatment. Together, our data demonstrate that VARS may represent an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of therapy-resistant melanoma.
PXD051906	38849673	DLG1 functions upstream of SDCCAG3 and IFT20 to control ciliary targeting of polycystin-2. 	DLG1 functions upstream of SDCCAG3 and IFT20 to control ciliary targeting of polycystin-2	BioID2, DLG1, primary cilia	Polarized vesicular trafficking directs specific receptors and ion channels to cilia, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we describe a role for DLG1, a core component of the Scribble polarity complex, in regulating ciliary protein trafficking in kidney epithelial cells. Conditional knockout of Dlg1 in mouse kidney causes ciliary elongation and cystogenesis, and cell-based proximity labeling proteomics and fluorescence microscopy show alterations in the ciliary proteome upon loss of DLG1. Specifically, the retromer-associated protein SDCCAG3, IFT20, and polycystin-2 (PC2) are reduced in the cilia of DLG1-deficient cells compared to control cells. This phenotype is recapitulated in vivo and rescuable by re-expression of wild-type DLG1, but not a Congenital Anomalies of the Kidney and Urinary Tract (CAKUT)-associated DLG1 variant, p.T489R. Finally, biochemical approaches and Alpha Fold modelling suggest that SDCCAG3 and IFT20 form a complex that associates, at least indirectly, with DLG1. Our work identifies a key role for DLG1 in regulating ciliary protein composition and suggests that ciliary dysfunction of the p.T489R DLG1 variant may contribute to CAKUT.
PXD003138	38849800	Progression of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance to multiple myeloma is associated with enhanced translational quality control and overall loss of surface antigens. 	Biomarker discovery and subtype classification within Multiple Myeloma by Super-SILAC	CORRELATION, GENOME, SILAC	BACKGROUND: Despite significant advancements in treatment strategies, multiple myeloma remains incurable. Additionally, there is a distinct lack of reliable biomarkers that can guide initial treatment decisions and help determine suitable replacement or adjuvant therapies when relapse ensues due to acquired drug resistance. METHODS: To define specific proteins and pathways involved in the progression of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) to multiple myeloma (MM), we have applied super-SILAC quantitative proteomic analysis to CD138 + plasma cells from 9 individuals with MGUS and 37 with MM. RESULTS: Unsupervised hierarchical clustering defined three groups: MGUS, MM, and MM with an MGUS-like proteome profile (ML) that may represent a group that has recently transformed to MM. Statistical analysis identified 866 differentially expressed proteins between MM and MGUS, and 189 between MM and ML, 177 of which were common between MGUS and ML. Progression from MGUS to MM is accompanied by upregulated EIF2 signaling, DNA repair, and proteins involved in translational quality control, whereas integrin- and actin cytoskeletal signaling and cell surface markers are downregulated. CONCLUSION: Compared to the premalignant plasma cells in MGUS, malignant MM cells apparently have mobilized several pathways that collectively contribute to ensure translational fidelity and to avoid proteotoxic stress, especially in the ER. The overall reduced expression of immunoglobulins and surface antigens contribute to this and may additionally mediate evasion from recognition by the immune apparatus. Our analyses identified a range of novel biomarkers with potential prognostic and therapeutic value, which will undergo further evaluation to determine their clinical significance.
PXD049249	38851302	Molecular and epigenetic ex vivo profiling of testis cancer-associated fibroblasts and their interaction with germ cell tumor cells and macrophages. 	Characterization of cancer-associated fibroblasts from ex vivo germ cell tumors	Germ cell tumor, cancer-associated fibroblast, embryonal carcinoma, seminoma, teratoma, tumor microenvironment	Germ cell tumors (GCT) are the most common solid tumors in young men of age 15 - 40. In previous studies, we profiled the interaction of GCT cells with cells of the tumor microenvironment (TM). Earlier studies showed that especially the 3D interaction of fibroblasts (FB) or macrophages with GCT cells influenced the growth behavior and cisplatin response as well as the transcriptome and secretome of the tumor cells, suggesting that the crosstalk of these cells with GCT cells is crucial for tumor progression and therapy outcome. In this study, we shed light on the mechanisms of activation of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) in the GCT setting and their effects on GCT cells lines and the monocyte cell line THP-1. Ex vivo cultures of GCT-derived CAF were established and characterized molecularly and epigenetically by performing DNA methylation arrays, RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry-based secretome analysis. We demonstrated that the activation state of CAF is influenced by their former prevailing tumor environment in which they have resided. Hereby, we postulated that seminoma (SE) and embryonal carcinoma (EC) activate CAF, while teratoma (TER) play only a minor role in CAF formation. In turn, CAF influence proliferation and the expression of cisplatin sensitivity-related factors in GCT cells lines as well as polarization of in vitro-induced macrophages by the identified effector molecules IGFBP1, LGALS3BP, LYVE1, and PTX3. Our data suggests that the vital interaction of CAF with GCT cells and with macrophages has a huge influence for shaping the extracellular matrix as well as for recruitment of immune cells to the tumor microenvironment. In conclusion, therapeutically interfering with CAF and / or macrophages in addition to the standard therapy might slow-down progression of GCT and re-shaping of the TM to a tumor-promoting environment. Significance: The interaction of CAF with GCT and macrophages considerably influences the microenvironment. Thus, therapeutically interfering with CAF might slow-down progression of GCT and re-shaping of the microenvironment to a tumor-promoting environment.
PXD045597	38851451	Global view of domain-specific O-linked mannose glycosylation in glycoengineered cells. 	Global view of domain-specific O-linked mannose glycosylation in glycoengineered cells	O-Man, O-mannose, PTM, glycobiology, glycoproteomics	Protein O-linked mannose (O-Man) glycosylation is an evolutionary conserved post-translational modification (PTM) that fulfills important biological roles during embryonic development. Three non-redundant enzyme families, POMT1/POMT2, TMTC1-4 and TMEM260, selectively coordinate the initiation of protein O-Man glycosylation on distinct classes of transmembrane proteins, including alpha-dystroglycan, cadherins and plexin receptors. However, a systematic investigation of their substrate specificities is lacking, in part due to the ubiquitous expression of O-Man glycosyltransferases in cells, which precludes analysis of pathway-specific O-Man glycosylation on a proteome-wide scale. Here, we apply a targeted workflow for membrane glycoproteomics across five human cell lines to extensively map O-Man substrates and genetically deconstruct O-Man initiation by individual and combinatorial knock-out (KO) of O-Man glycosyltransferase genes. We established a human cell library for analysis of substrate specificities of individual O-Man initiation pathways by quantitative glycoproteomics. Our results identify 180 O-Man glycoproteins, demonstrate new protein targets for the POMT1/POMT2 pathway and show that TMTC1-4 and TMEM260 pathways widely target distinct Ig-like protein domains of plasma membrane proteins involved in cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions. The identification of O-Man on Ig-like folds adds further knowledge on the emerging concept of domain-specific O-Man glycosylation which opens for functional studies of O-Man glycosylated adhesion molecules and receptors.
PXD051808	38851808	Integrated proteomics and metabolomics analysis of sclerosis-related proteins and femoral head necrosis following internal fixation of femoral neck fractures. 	Integrated Proteomics and Metabolomics Analysis of Sclerosis-Related Proteins and Femoral Head Necrosis Following Internal Fixation of Femoral Neck Fractures-1	Femoral head necrosis, Metabolomics, Sclerosis around screw paths	Femoral head necrosis (FHN) is a serious complication after femoral neck fractures (FNF), often linked to sclerosis around screw paths. Our study aimed to uncover the proteomic and metabolomic underpinnings of FHN and sclerosis using integrated proteomics and metabolomics analyses. We identified differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and metabolites (DEMs) among three groups: patients with FNF (Group A), sclerosis (Group B), and FHN (Group C). Using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology enrichment analyses, we examined the roles of these proteins and metabolites. Our findings highlight the significant differences across the groups, with 218 DEPs and 44 DEMs identified between the sclerosis and FNF groups, 247 DEPs and 31 DEMs between the FHN and sclerosis groups, and a stark 682 DEPs and 94 DEMs between the FHN and FNF groups. Activities related to carbonate dehydratase and hydrolase were similar in the FHN and sclerosis groups, whereas extracellular region and lysosome were prevalent in the FHN and FNF groups. Our study also emphasized the involvement of the PI3K-Akt pathway in sclerosis and FHN. Moreover, the key metabolic pathways were implicated in glycerophospholipid metabolism and retrograde endocannabinoid signaling. Using western blotting, we confirmed the pivotal role of specific genes/proteins such as ITGB5, TNXB, CA II, and CA III in sclerosis and acid phosphatase 5 and cathepsin K in FHN. This comprehensive analyses elucidates the molecular mechanisms behind sclerosis and FHN and suggests potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets, paving the way for improved treatment strategies. Further validation of the findings is necessary to strengthen the robustness and reliability of the results.
PXD050750	38852542	NMT2 alleviates depression-like behavior in a rat model of chronic unpredictable stress: An integrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis. 	NMT2 alleviated the depression-like behaviorintegrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of chronic unpredictable stress in rats	CUMS, NMT2, depression, phosphorylation protein	Proteomics has been widely used to investigate multiple diseases. Combining the analyses of proteomics with phosphoproteomics can be used to further explain the pathological mechanisms of depression. In this study, depression-like behavior was induced in a rat model of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). We subsequently conducted the sucrose preference test, open field experiment, and forced swimming test to assess depressive-like behavior. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic sequencing of the hippocampal tissues from depressive-like behavior and normal rats were analyzed to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and differentially phosphorylated proteins (DPPs). Differentially expressed phosphorylated proteins (DEPPs) were obtained by intersecting the DEPs and DPPs, and functional enrichment analysis, as well as ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA), were subsequently performed. The study also investigated correlations among the DEPPs and used qRT-PCR to quantify the expression levels of key genes. Five DEPPs were identified, Gys1, Nmt2, Lrp1, Bin1, and Atp1a1, which were found to activate the synaptogenesis signaling pathway, induce mitochondrial dysfunction, and activate the phosphoinositide biosynthesis and degradation pathways. The qRT-PCR results confirmed the proteomic findings for Gys1, Nmt2, Lrp1, and Atp1a1. Importantly, inhibiting Nmt2 was found to alleviate depression-like behavior and alleviate neuronal apoptosis in the hippocampus of CUMS rats. In conclusion, we identified five DEPPs associated with the synaptogenesis signaling pathway, mitochondrial dysfunction, and phosphoinositide biosynthesis and degradation in depression. Furthermore, NMT2 may be a potential target for the treatment or diagnosis of depression. Our findings provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of depression.
PXD050060	38856187	Characterization of reduced astrocyte creatine kinase levels in Alzheimer's disease. 	Brain Creatine Kinase as a biomarker for Alzheimer's disease	Alzeheimers disease, CKB, Dementia, brain creatine kinase, energy-deficit	The creatine-phosphocreatine cycle serves as a crucial temporary energy buffering system in the brain, regulated by brain creatine kinase (CKB), in maintaining Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels. Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been linked to increased CKB oxidation and loss of its regulatory function, although specific pathological processes and affected cell types remain unclear. In our study, cerebral cortex samples from individuals with AD, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and age-matched controls were analyzed using antibody-based methods to quantify CKB levels and assess alterations associated with disease processes. Two independently validated antibodies exclusively labeled astrocytes in the human cerebral cortex. Combining immunofluorescence (IF) and mass spectrometry (MS), we explored CKB availability in AD and DLB cases. IF and Western blot analysis demonstrated a loss of CKB immunoreactivity correlated with increased plaque load, severity of tau pathology, and Lewy body pathology. However, transcriptomics data and targeted MS demonstrated unaltered total CKB levels, suggesting posttranslational modifications (PTMs) affecting antibody binding. This aligns with altered efficiency at proteolytic cleavage sites indicated in the targeted MS experiment. These findings highlight that the proper function of astrocytes, understudied in the brain compared with neurons, is highly affected by PTMs. Reduction in ATP levels within astrocytes can disrupt ATP-dependent processes, such as the glutamate-glutamine cycle. As CKB and the creatine-phosphocreatine cycle are important in securing constant ATP availability, PTMs in CKB, and astrocyte dysfunction may disturb homeostasis, driving excitotoxicity in the AD brain. CKB and its activity could be promising biomarkers for monitoring early-stage energy deficits in AD.
PXD052465	38857073	Exploring Infantile Epileptic Spasm Syndrome: A Proteomic Analysis of Plasma Using the Data-Independent Acquisition Approach. 	A proteomic analysis of plasma using data-independent acquisition approach to explore infantile epileptic spasm syndrome	Biomarker, Data-independent acquisition, Infantile epileptic spasm syndrome, Plasma	This study aimed to identify characteristic proteins in infantile epileptic spasm syndrome (IESS) patients' plasma, offering insights into potential early diagnostic biomarkers and its underlying causes. Plasma samples were gathered from 60 patients with IESS and 40 healthy controls. Data-independent acquisition proteomic analysis was utilized to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). These DEPs underwent functional annotation through Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was employed for both GO (GSEA-GO) and KEGG (GSEA-KEGG) analyses to examine the gene expression profiles. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves assessed biomarkers' discriminatory capacity. A total of 124 DEPs were identified in IESS patients' plasma, mainly linked to pathways, encompassing chemokines, cytokines, and oxidative detoxification. GSEA-GO and GSEA-KEGG analyses indicated significant enrichment of genes associated with cell migration, focal adhesion, and phagosome pathways. ROC curve analysis demonstrated that the combination of PRSS1 and ACTB, PRSS3, ACTB, and PRSS1 alone exhibited AUC values exceeding 0.7. This study elucidated the significant contribution of cytokines, chemokines, oxidative detoxification, and phagosomes to the IESS pathogenesis. The combination of PRSS1 and ACTB holds promise as biomarkers for the early diagnosis of IESS.
PXD046142	38857467	Modeling the Simultaneous Dynamics of Proteins in Blood Plasma and the Cerebrospinal Fluid in Human In Vivo. 	Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino acid in Vivo (SILAV)	Protein turnover, SILK	The analysis of protein dynamics or turnover in patients has the potential to reveal altered protein recycling, such as in Alzheimer's disease, and to provide informative data regarding drug efficacy or certain biological processes. The observed protein dynamics in a solid tissue or a fluid is the net result of not only protein synthesis and degradation but also transport across biological compartments. We report an accurate 3-biological compartment model able to simultaneously account for the protein dynamics observed in blood plasma and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) including a hidden central nervous system (CNS) compartment. We successfully applied this model to 69 proteins of a single individual displaying similar or very different dynamics in plasma and CSF. This study puts a strong emphasis on the methods and tools needed to develop this type of model. We believe that it will be useful to any researcher dealing with protein dynamics data modeling.
PXD048862	38857861	RhoG facilitates a conformational transition in the guanine nucleotide exchange factor complex DOCK5/ELMO1 to an open state. 	Crosslinking MS of Elmo1,Dock5,Rac1 and RhoG complexes	Crosslink mass spectrometry, XL-MS	The dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK)/engulfment and cell motility (ELMO) complex serves as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for the GTPase Rac. RhoG, another GTPase, activates the ELMO-DOCK-Rac pathway during engulfment and migration. Recent cryo-EM structures of the DOCK2/ELMO1 and DOCK2/ELMO1/Rac1 complexes have identified closed and open conformations that are key to understanding the autoinhibition mechanism. Nevertheless, the structural details of RhoG-mediated activation of the DOCK/ELMO complex remain elusive. Herein, we present cryo-EM structures of DOCK5/ELMO1 alone and in complex with RhoG and Rac1. The DOCK5/ELMO1 structure exhibits a closed conformation similar to that of DOCK2/ELMO1, suggesting a shared regulatory mechanism of the autoinhibitory state across DOCK-A/B subfamilies (DOCK1-5). Conversely, the RhoG/DOCK5/ELMO1/Rac1 complex adopts an open conformation that differs from that of the DOCK2/ELMO1/Rac1 complex, with RhoG binding to both ELMO1 and DOCK5. The alignment of the DOCK5 PIP3 binding site with the RhoG C-terminal lipidation site suggests simultaneous binding of RhoG and DOCK5/ELMO1 to the plasma membrane. Structural comparison of the apo and RhoG-bound states revealed that RhoG facilitates a closed-to-open state conformational change of DOCK5/ELMO1. Biochemical and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) assays confirm that RhoG enhances the Rac GEF activity of DOCK5/ELMO1 and increases its binding affinity for Rac1. Further analysis of structural variability underscored the conformational flexibility of the DOCK5/ELMO1/Rac1 complex core, potentially facilitating the proximity of the DOCK5 GEF domain to the plasma membrane. These findings elucidate the structural mechanism underlying the RhoG-induced allosteric activation and membrane binding of the DOCK/ELMO complex.
PXD051537	38858683	PCYT1A deficiency disturbs fatty acid metabolism and induces ferroptosis in the mouse retina. 	PCYT1A deficiency disturbs fatty acid metabolism and induces ferroptosis in the mouse retina	Fatty acid metabolism, Ferroptosis, IRDs, PCYT1A	BACKGROUND: Inherited retinal dystrophies (IRDs) are a group of debilitating visual disorders characterized by the progressive degeneration of photoreceptors, which ultimately lead to blindness. Among the causes of this condition, mutations in the PCYT1A gene, which encodes the rate-limiting enzyme responsible for phosphatidylcholine (PC) de novo synthesis via the Kennedy pathway, have been identified. However, the precise mechanisms underlying the association between PCYT1A mutations and IRDs remain unclear. To address this knowledge gap, we focused on elucidating the functions of PCYT1A in the retina. RESULTS: We found that PCYT1A is highly expressed in Muller glial (MG) cells in the inner nuclear layer (INL) of the retina. Subsequently, we generated a retina-specific knockout mouse model in which the Pcyt1a gene was targeted (Pcyt1a-RKO or RKO mice) to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying IRDs caused by PCYT1A mutations. Our findings revealed that the deletion of Pcyt1a resulted in retinal degenerative phenotypes, including reduced scotopic electroretinogram (ERG) responses and progressive degeneration of photoreceptor cells, accompanied by loss of cells in the INL. Furthermore, through proteomic and bioinformatic analyses, we identified dysregulated retinal fatty acid metabolism and activation of the ferroptosis signalling pathway in RKO mice. Importantly, we found that PCYT1A deficiency did not lead to an overall reduction in PC synthesis within the retina. Instead, this deficiency appeared to disrupt free fatty acid metabolism and ultimately trigger ferroptosis. CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals a novel mechanism by which mutations in PCYT1A contribute to the development of IRDs, shedding light on the interplay between fatty acid metabolism and retinal degenerative diseases, and provides new insights into the treatment of IRDs.
PXD046072	38861989	Improved detection of tryptic immunoglobulin variable region peptides by chromatographic and gas-phase fractionation techniques. 	Improved detection of tryptic immunoglobulin variable region peptides by chromatographic and gas-phase fractionation techniques.	Antibody, bottom-up proteomics, de novo sequencing, immune repertoire, ion-mobility, multi-dimensional chromatography, peptide fractionation, plasma proteomics	The polyclonal repertoire of circulating antibodies potentially holds valuable information about an individual's humoral immune state. While bottom-up proteomics is well suited for serum proteomics, the vast number of antibodies and dynamic range of serum challenge this analysis. To acquire the serum proteome more comprehensively, we incorporated high-field asymmetric waveform ion-mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) or two-dimensional chromatography into standard trypsin-based bottom-up proteomics. Thereby, the number of variable region (VR)-related spectra increased 1.7-fold with FAIMS and 10-fold with chromatography fractionation. To match antibody VRs to spectra, we combined de novo searching and BLAST alignment. Validation of this approach showed that, as peptide length increased, the de novo accuracy decreased and BLAST performance increased. Through in silico calculations on antibody repository sequences, we determined the uniqueness of tryptic VR peptides and their suitability as antibody surrogate. Approximately one-third of these peptides were unique, and about one-third of all antibodies contained at least one unique peptide.
PXD049453	38862474	The RNF214-TEAD-YAP signaling axis promotes hepatocellular carcinoma progression via TEAD ubiquitylation. 	The RNF214-TEAD-YAP signaling axis promotes hepatocellular carcinoma progression via TEAD ubiquitylation	APEX2	RNF214 is an understudied ubiquitin ligase with little knowledge of its biological functions or protein substrates. Here we show that the TEAD transcription factors in the Hippo pathway are substrates of RNF214. RNF214 induces non-proteolytic ubiquitylation at a conserved lysine residue of TEADs, enhances interactions between TEADs and YAP, and promotes transactivation of the downstream genes of the Hippo signaling. Moreover, YAP and TAZ could bind polyubiquitin chains, implying the underlying mechanisms by which RNF214 regulates the Hippo pathway. Furthermore, RNF214 is overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and inversely correlates with differentiation status and patient survival. Consistently, RNF214 promotes tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and HCC tumorigenesis in mice. Collectively, our data reveal RNF214 as a critical component in the Hippo pathway by forming a signaling axis of RNF214-TEAD-YAP and suggest that RNF214 is an oncogene of HCC and could be a potential drug target of HCC therapy.
PXD048707	38862515	Smooth muscle NF90 deficiency ameliorates diabetic atherosclerotic calcification in male mice via FBXW7-AGER1-AGEs axis. 	Nuclear factor 90 isoform of vascular smooth muscle cells accelerates diabetic arteriosclerotic calcification by mediating FBXW7-AGER1-AGEs axis	AGER1, FBXW7, NF90/110, advanced glycation end products, diabetic calcification	Hyperglycemia accelerates calcification of atherosclerotic plaques in diabetic patients, and the accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) is closely related to the atherosclerotic calcification. Here, we show that hyperglycemia-mediated AGEs markedly increase vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) NF90/110 activation in male diabetic patients with atherosclerotic calcified samples. VSMC-specific NF90/110 knockout in male mice decreases obviously AGEs-induced atherosclerotic calcification, along with the inhibitions of VSMC phenotypic changes to osteoblast-like cells, apoptosis, and matrix vesicle release. Mechanistically, AGEs increase the activity of NF90, which then enhances ubiquitination and degradation of AGE receptor 1 (AGER1) by stabilizing the mRNA of E3 ubiquitin ligase FBXW7, thus causing the accumulation of more AGEs and atherosclerotic calcification. Collectively, our study demonstrates the effects of VSMC NF90 in mediating the metabolic imbalance of AGEs to accelerate diabetic atherosclerotic calcification. Therefore, inhibition of VSMC NF90 may be a potential therapeutic target for diabetic atherosclerotic calcification.
PXD040557	38862901	Salinity-responsive histone PTMs identified in the gills and gonads of Mozambique tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus). 	Salinity-responsive histone PTMs identified in Mozambique tilapia tissues	Epigenetics, Euryhalinity, Osmoregulation, Stress-induced evolution	BACKGROUND: Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) are epigenetic marks that can be induced by environmental stress and elicit heritable patterns of gene expression. To investigate this process in an ecological context, we characterized the influence of salinity stress on histone PTMs within the gills, kidney, and testes of Mozambique tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus). A total of 221 histone PTMs were quantified in each tissue sample and compared between freshwater-adapted fish exposed to salinity treatments that varied in intensity and duration. RESULTS: Four salinity-responsive histone PTMs were identified in this study. When freshwater-adapted fish were exposed to seawater for two hours, the relative abundance of H1K16ub significantly increased in the gills. Long-term salinity stress elicited changes in both the gills and testes. When freshwater-adapted fish were exposed to a pulse of severe salinity stress, where salinity gradually increased from freshwater to a maximum of 82.5 g/kg, the relative abundance of H1S1ac significantly decreased in the gills. Under the same conditions, the relative abundance of both H3K14ac and H3K18ub decreased significantly in the testes of Mozambique tilapia. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that salinity stress can alter histone PTMs in the gills and gonads of Mozambique tilapia, which, respectively, signify a potential for histone PTMs to be involved in salinity acclimation and adaptation in euryhaline fishes. These results thereby add to a growing body of evidence that epigenetic mechanisms may be involved in such processes.
PXD040446	38864697	Genetic variants and down-regulation of CACNA1H in pheochromocytoma. 	Constitutional variants and tumor-specific down-regulation of the calcium voltage-gated channel subunit CACNA1H in pheochromocytoma	CACNA1H, calcium channel, paraganglioma, pheochromocytoma	Pheochromocytoma (PCC) and abdominal paraganglioma (aPGL) (together abbreviated PPGL) frequently present with an underlying genetic event in a PPGL driver gene, and additional susceptibility genes are anticipated. Here we re-analysed whole-exome sequencing data for PCC patients and identified two patients with rare missense variants in the calcium voltage-gated channel subunit 1H gene (CACNA1H). CACNA1H variants were also found in the clinical setting in PCC patients using targeted sequencing and from analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas database. In total, CACNA1H variants were found in six PCC cases. Three of these were constitutional and two are known to have functional consequences on hormone production and gene expression in primary aldosteronism and aldosterone-producing adrenocortical adenoma. In general, PPGL exhibited reduced CACNA1H mRNA expression as compared to normal adrenal. Immunohistochemistry showed strong CACNA1H (CaV3.2) staining in adrenal medulla while PPGL typically had weak or negative staining. Reduced CACNA1H gene expression was especially pronounced in PCC as compared to aPGL and in PPGL with Cluster 2 kinase signalling phenotype. Furthermore, CACNA1H levels correlated with HIF1A and HIF2A. Moreover, TCGA data revealed a correlation between CACNA1H methylation density and gene expression. Expression of rCacna1h in PC12 cells induced differential protein expression profiles determined by mass spectrometry as well as a shift in the membrane potential where maximum calcium currents were observed as determined by electrophysiology. The findings suggest the involvement of CACNA1H/CaV3.2 in pheochromocytoma development and establish a potential link between the aetiology of adrenomedullary and adrenocortical tumor development.
PXD048271	38864836	Wideband PRM: Highly Accurate and Sensitive Method for High-Throughput Targeted Proteomics. 	Wideband PRM: Highly Accurate and Sensitive Method  for High-Throughput Targeted Proteomics	PRM, absolute quantification, parallel reaction monitoring, targeted proteomics	Targeted mass spectrometry (MS) approaches, which are powerful methods for uniquely and confidently quantifying a specific panel of proteins in complex biological samples, play a crucial role in validating and clinically translating protein biomarkers discovered through global proteomic profiling. Common targeted MS methods, such as multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) and parallel-reaction monitoring (PRM), employ specific mass spectrometric technologies to quantify protein levels by comparing the transitions of surrogate endogenous (ENDO) peptides with those of stable isotope-labeled (SIL) peptide counterparts. These methods utilizing amino acid analyzed (AAA) SIL peptides warrant sensitive and precise measurements required for targeted MS assays. Compared with MRM, PRM provides higher experimental throughput by simultaneously acquiring all transitions of the target peptides and thereby compensates for different ion suppressions among transitions of a target peptide. However, PRM still suffers different ion suppressions between ENDO and SIL peptides due to spray instability, as the ENDO and SIL peptides were monitored at different liquid chromatography (LC) retention times. Here we introduce a new targeted MS method, termed wideband PRM (WBPRM), that is designed for high-throughput targeted MS analysis. WBPRM employs a wide isolation window for simultaneous fragmentation of both ENDO and SIL peptides along with multiplexed single ion monitoring (SIM) scans for enhanced MS sensitivity of the target peptides. Compared with PRM, WBPRM was demonstrated to provide increased sensitivity, precision, and reproducibility of quantitative measurements of target peptides with increased throughput, allowing more target peptide measurements in a shortened experiment time. WBPRM is a straightforward adaptation to a manufacturer-provided MS method, making it an easily implementable technique, particularly in complex biological samples where the demand for higher precision, sensitivity, and efficiency is paramount.
PXD046645	38865459	Tau fibrils evade autophagy by excessive p62 coating and TAX1BP1 exclusion. 	Targeted mass spectrometry of Tau preparations purified from Alzheimer's Disease brains plus either the deubiquitylase USP21 or its activity-dead mutant C221A.	(De)ubiquitination/ubiquitylation, Alzheimer's Disease, neurodegeneration	The accumulation of protein aggregates is a hallmark of many diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. As a major pillar of the proteostasis network, autophagy mediates the degradation of protein aggregates. The autophagy cargo receptor p62 recognizes ubiquitin on proteins and cooperates with TAX1BP1 to recruit the autophagy machinery. Paradoxically, protein aggregates are not degraded in various diseases despite p62 association. Here, we reconstituted the recognition by the autophagy receptors of physiological and pathological Tau forms. Monomeric Tau recruits p62 and TAX1BP1 via the sequential actions of the chaperone and ubiquitylation machineries. In contrast, Tau fibrils from Alzheimer's disease brains are recognized by p62 but fail to recruit TAX1BP1. This failure is due to the masking of fibrils ubiquitin moieties by p62. Tau fibrils are resistant to deubiquitylation, and, thus, this nonproductive interaction of p62 with the fibrils is irreversible. Our results shed light on the mechanism underlying autophagy evasion by protein aggregates and their consequent accumulation in disease.
PXD050568	38866076	Differential analysis of Cereblon neosubstrates in rabbit embryos using targeted proteomics. 	Targeted MS assay to evaluate Cereblon neosubstrate changes in rabbit embryos following maternal administration of IMiDs	CRBN, IA, IMiD, Neosubstrate, PRM	Targeted protein degradation is the selective removal of a protein of interest through hijacking intracellular protein cleanup machinery. This rapidly growing field currently relies heavily on the use of the E3 ligase Cereblon (CRBN) to target proteins for degradation, including the immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide which work through a molecular glue mechanism of action with CRBN. While CRBN recruitment can result in degradation of a specific protein of interest (e.g. efficacy), degradation of other proteins (called CRBN neosubstrates) also occurs. Degradation of one or more of these CRBN neosubstrates is believed to play an important role in thalidomide-related developmental toxicity observed in rabbits and primates. We identified a set of 25 proteins of interest associated with CRBN-related protein homeostasis and/or embryo/fetal development. We developed a targeted assay for these proteins combining peptide immunoaffinity enrichment and high-resolution mass spectrometry and successfully applied this assay to rabbit embryo samples from pregnant rabbits dosed with three IMiDs. We confirmed previously reported in vivo decreases in neosubstrates like SALL4, as well as provided evidence of neosubstrate changes for proteins only examined in vitro previously. While there were many proteins that were similarly decreased by all three IMiDs, no compound had the exact same neosubstrate degradation profile as another. We compared our data to previous literature reports of IMiD induced degradation and known developmental biology associations. Based on our observations, we recommend monitoring at least a major subset of these neosubstrates in a developmental test system to improve CRBN-binding compound-specific risk assessment. A strength of our assay is that it is configurable, and the target list can be readily adapted to focus on only a subset of proteins of interest or expanded to incorporate new findings as additional information about CRBN biology is discovered.
PXD050362	38866077	Improved Mass Spectrometry-based methods reveal abundant propionylation and tissue specific histone propionylation profiles. 	Improved Mass Spectrometry-based methods to study histone propionylation	acylation, histone post-translational modifications, propionylation	Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) have crucial roles in a multitude of cellular processes, and their aberrant levels have been linked with numerous diseases, including cancer. Although histone PTM investigations have focused so far on methylations and acetylations, alternative long-chain acylations emerged as new dimension, as they are linked to cellular metabolic states and affect gene expression through mechanisms distinct from those regulated by acetylation. Mass spectrometry (MS) is the most powerful, comprehensive and unbiased method to study histone PTMs. However, typical MS-based protocols for histone PTM analysis do not allow identification of naturally occurring propionylation and butyrylation. Here, we present improved state-of-the-art sample preparation and analysis protocols to quantitate these classes of modifications. After testing different derivatization methods coupled to protease digestion, we profiled common histone PTMs and histone acylations in seven mouse tissues and human normal and tumor breast clinical samples, obtaining a map of propionylations and butyrylations found in different tissue contexts. A quantitative histone PTM analysis also revealed a contribution of histone acylations in discriminating different tissues, also upon perturbation with antibiotics, and breast cancer samples from the normal counterpart. Our results show that profiling only classical modifications is limiting and highlight the importance of using sample preparation methods that allows the analysis of the widest possible spectrum of histone modifications, paving the way for deeper insights into their functional significance in cellular processes and disease states.
PXD046253	38866555	A nuclear architecture screen in Drosophila identifies Stonewall as a link between chromatin position at the nuclear periphery and germline stem cell fate. 	Investigation of Stwl interactome	DDA, IP-MS	The association of genomic loci to the nuclear periphery is proposed to facilitate cell type-specific gene repression and influence cell fate decisions. However, the interplay between gene position and expression remains incompletely understood, in part because the proteins that position genomic loci at the nuclear periphery remain unidentified. Here, we used an Oligopaint-based HiDRO screen targeting ~1000 genes to discover novel regulators of nuclear architecture in Drosophila cells. We identified the heterochromatin-associated protein Stonewall (Stwl) as a factor promoting perinuclear chromatin positioning. In female germline stem cells (GSCs), Stwl binds and positions chromatin loci, including GSC differentiation genes, at the nuclear periphery. Strikingly, Stwl-dependent perinuclear positioning is associated with transcriptional repression, highlighting a likely mechanism for Stwl's known role in GSC maintenance and ovary homeostasis. Thus, our study identifies perinuclear anchors in Drosophila and demonstrates the importance of gene repression at the nuclear periphery for cell fate.
PXD044963	38867295	Phosphoproteomic profiling of early rheumatoid arthritis synovium reveals active signalling pathways and differentiates inflammatory pathotypes. 	Phosphoproteomic profiling discriminates between myeloid and lymphoid pathotypes in early RA synovium	label-free, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: Kinases are intracellular signalling mediators and key to sustaining the inflammatory process in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Oral inhibitors of Janus Kinase family (JAKs) are widely used in RA, while inhibitors of other kinase families e.g. phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) are under development. Most current biomarker platforms quantify mRNA/protein levels, but give no direct information on whether proteins are active/inactive. Phosphoproteome analysis has the potential to measure specific enzyme activation status at tissue level. METHODS: We validated the feasibility of phosphoproteome and total proteome analysis on 8 pre-treatment synovial biopsies from treatment-naive RA patients using label-free mass spectrometry, to identify active cell signalling pathways in synovial tissue which might explain failure to respond to RA therapeutics. RESULTS: Differential expression analysis and functional enrichment revealed clear separation of phosphoproteome and proteome profiles between lymphoid and myeloid RA pathotypes. Abundance of specific phosphosites was associated with the degree of inflammatory state. The lymphoid pathotype was enriched with lymphoproliferative signalling phosphosites, including Mammalian Target Of Rapamycin (MTOR) signalling, whereas the myeloid pathotype was associated with Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) and CDK mediated signalling. This analysis also highlighted novel kinases not previously linked to RA, such as Protein Kinase, DNA-Activated, Catalytic Subunit (PRKDC) in the myeloid pathotype. Several phosphosites correlated with clinical features, such as Disease-Activity-Score (DAS)-28, suggesting that phosphosite analysis has potential for identifying novel biomarkers at tissue-level of disease severity and prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: Specific phosphoproteome/proteome signatures delineate RA pathotypes and may have clinical utility for stratifying patients for personalised medicine in RA.
PXD052100	38868177	Amiloride reduces fructosamine-3-kinase expression to restore sunitinib sensitivity in renal cell carcinoma. 	Amiloride reduces FN3K expression to restore sunitinib sensitivity in renal cell carcinoma	Amiloride, FN3K, Renal cell carcinoma, Sunitinib resistance, VEGFR2	The kidney is a vital organ responsible for water and sodium metabolism, while the primary function of amiloride is to promote the excretion of water and sodium. We investigated amiloride enhanced the sunitinib sensitivity in RCC. We found both sunitinib and amiloride displayed cytotoxicity and exerted the synergy effect in RCC cells in vivo and in vitro arrays. Protein expression profiles were screened via MS/TMT, revealing that FN3K was upregulated in the sunitinib group, and rescued in amiloride and the combination administration. Exogenous FN3K could promote proliferation, invasion and metastasis and decrease the sensitivity of Caki-1 cells to sunitinib, also, exogenous FN3K up-regulated VEGFR2 expression and activated AKT/mTOR signal pathway. More FN3K and VEGFR2 accumulated in R-Caki-1 cells and rescued by amiloride treatment. Co-IP and IF confirmed the interaction between FN3K and VEGFR2. In conclusion, FN3K depletion mediated VEGFR2 disruption promotes amiloride synergized the anti-RCC activity of sunitinib.
PXD051560	38869055	A CDK1 phosphorylation site on Drosophila PAR-3 regulates neuroblast polarisation and sensory organ formation. 	A CDK1 phosphorylation site on Drosophila PAR-3 regulates neuroblast polarisation and sensory organ formation	Asymmetric cell division, Drosophila, cell cycle, cell polarity	The generation of distinct cell fates during development depends on asymmetric cell division of progenitor cells. In the central and peripheral nervous system of Drosophila, progenitor cells respectively called neuroblasts or sensory organ precursors use PAR polarity during mitosis to control cell fate determination in their daughter cells. How polarity and the cell cycle are coupled, and how the cell cycle machinery regulates PAR protein function and cell fate determination is poorly understood. Here, we generate an analog sensitive allele of CDK1 and reveal that its partial inhibition weakens but does not abolish apical polarity in embryonic and larval neuroblasts and leads to defects in polarisation of fate determinants. We describe a novel in vivo phosphorylation of Bazooka, the Drosophila homolog of PAR-3, on Serine180, a consensus CDK phosphorylation site. In some tissular contexts, phosphorylation of Serine180 occurs in asymmetrically dividing cells but not in their symmetrically dividing neighbours. In neuroblasts, Serine180 phosphomutants disrupt the timing of basal polarisation. Serine180 phosphomutants also affect the specification and binary cell fate determination of sensory organ precursors as well as Baz localisation during their asymmetric cell divisions. Finally, we show that CDK1 phosphorylates Serine-S180 and an equivalent Serine on human PAR-3 in vitro.
PXD051278	38870534	SUN5 interacts with nuclear membrane LaminB1 and cytoskeletal GTPase Septin12 mediating the sperm head-and-tail junction. 	SUN5 interacts with nuclear membrane LaminB1 and cytoskeletal GTPase Septin12 mediating the sperm head-and-tail junction	LaminB1, SUN5, Septin12, proximal centriole, sperm head-to-tail junction	Acephalic spermatozoa syndrome (ASS) is a severe teratospermia with decaudated, decapitated and malformed sperm, resulting in male infertility. Nuclear envelope (NE) protein SUN5 localizes to the junction between the sperm head and tail. Mutations in the SUN5 gene have been identified most frequently (33-47%) in ASS cases, and its molecular mechanism of action is yet to be explored. In the present study, we generated Sun5 knockout mice, which presented the phenotype of ASS. Nuclear membrane protein LaminB1 and cytoskeletal GTPases Septin12 and Septin2 were identified as potential partners for interacting with SUN5 by immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) in mouse testis. Further studies demonstrated that SUN5 connected the nucleus by interacting with LaminB1 and connected the proximal centriole by interacting with Septin12. The binding between SUN5 and Septin12 promoted their aggregation together in the sperm neck. The disruption of the LaminB1/SUN5/Septin12 complex by Sun5 deficiency caused separation of the Septin12-proximal centriole from the nucleus, leading to the breakage of the head-to-tail junction. Collectively, these data provide new insights into the pathogenesis of ASS caused by SUN5 deficiency.
PXD049415	38870941	Characterization of a lipid-based jumbo phage compartment as a hub for early phage infection. 	Characterization of a lipid-based jumbo phage compartment as a hub for early phage infection	APMS, Phage, Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Viral genomes are most vulnerable to cellular defenses at the start of the infection. A family of jumbo phages related to phage PhiKZ, which infects Pseudomonas aeruginosa, assembles a protein-based phage nucleus to protect replicating phage DNA, but how it is protected prior to phage nucleus assembly is unclear. We find that host proteins related to membrane and lipid biology interact with injected phage protein, clustering in an early phage infection (EPI) vesicle. The injected virion RNA polymerase (vRNAP) executes early gene expression until phage genome separation from the vRNAP and the EPI vesicle, moving into the nascent proteinaceous phage nucleus. Enzymes involved in DNA replication and CRISPR/restriction immune nucleases are excluded by the EPI vesicle. We propose that the EPI vesicle is rapidly constructed with injected phage proteins, phage DNA, host lipids, and host membrane proteins to enable genome protection, early transcription, localized translation, and to ensure faithful genome transfer to the proteinaceous nucleus.
PXD050628	38871114	Proteomic analysis of endothelial cells and extracellular vesicles in response to indoxyl sulfate: Mechanisms of endothelial dysfunction in chronic kidney disease. 	Proteomic analysis of endothelial cells and extracellular vesicles in response to indoxyl sulfate: mechanisms of endothelial dysfunction in chronic kidney disease	cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, endothelial dysfunction, extracellular vesicles, indoxyl sulfate	AIMS: Cardiovascular pathology is the main cause of death in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. CKD is associated with the accumulation of uremic toxins in the bloodstream, and indoxyl sulfate (IS) is one of the most abundant uremic toxins found in the blood of CKD patients. We conducted an in vitro study to assess the mechanisms underlying the IS-induced endothelial dysfunction that could lead to cardiovascular diseases. We also studied their extracellular vesicles (EVs) owing to their capacity to act as messengers that transmit signals through their cargo. MAIN METHODS: EVs were characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis, transmission electron microscopy, flow cytometry, and tetraspanin expression. Cell lysates and isolated EVs were analyzed using liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry, followed by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis to identify the altered pathways. KEY FINDINGS: Proteomic analysis of endothelial cells revealed that IS causes an increase in proteins related to adipogenesis, inflammation, and xenobiotic metabolism and a decrease in proliferation. Extracellular matrix elements, as well as proteins associated with myogenesis, response to UV irradiation, and inflammation, were found to be downregulated in IS-treated EVs. Fatty acid metabolism was also found to be increased along with adipogenesis and inflammation observed in cells. SIGNIFICANCE: The treatment of endothelial cells with IS increased the expression of proteins related to adipogenesis, inflammation, and xenobiotic metabolism and was less associated with proliferation. Furthermore, EVs from cells treated with IS may mediate endothelial dysfunction, since they present fewer extracellular matrix elements, myogenesis, inflammatory factors, and proteins downregulated in response to UV radiation.
PXD051186	38873029	Metabolically-versatile Ca. Thiodiazotropha symbionts of the deep-sea lucinid clam Lucinoma kazani have the genetic potential to fix nitrogen. 	Ca. Thiodiazotropha symbionts of the deep-sea lucinid clam Lucinoma kazani are metabolically versatile.	1D-LC, chemosynthesis, diazotrophs, metaproteome, metaproteomics, symbiosis	Lucinid clams are one of the most diverse and widespread symbiont-bearing animal groups in both shallow and deep-sea chemosynthetic habitats. Lucinids harbor Ca. Thiodiazotropha symbionts that can oxidize inorganic and organic substrates such as hydrogen sulfide and formate to gain energy. The interplay between these key metabolic functions, nutrient uptake and biotic interactions in Ca. Thiodiazotropha is not fully understood. We collected Lucinoma kazani individuals from next to a deep-sea brine pool in the eastern Mediterranean Sea, at a depth of 1150 m and used Oxford Nanopore and Illumina sequencing to obtain high-quality genomes of their Ca. Thiodiazotropha gloverae symbiont. The genomes served as the basis for transcriptomic and proteomic analyses to characterize the in situ gene expression, metabolism and physiology of the symbionts. We found genes needed for N2 fixation in the deep-sea symbiont's genome, which, to date, were only found in shallow-water Ca. Thiodiazotropha. However, we did not detect the expression of these genes and thus the potential role of nitrogen fixation in this symbiosis remains to be determined. We also found the high expression of carbon fixation and sulfur oxidation genes, which indicate chemolithoautotrophy as the key physiology of Ca. Thiodiazotropha. However, we also detected the expression of pathways for using methanol and formate as energy sources. Our findings highlight the key traits these microbes maintain to support the nutrition of their hosts and interact with them.
PXD050345	38873163	Individualized lipid profile in urine-derived extracellular vesicles from clinical patients with Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections. 	Proteome and lipidome of Urine-derived Exosomes in Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infected Patients	Exosome, Lipidome, Tuberculosis (TB), immune response	Background: Lipids are a key nutrient source for the growth and reproduction of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). Urine-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), because of its non-invasive sampling, lipid enrichment, and specific sorting character, have been recognized as a promising research target for biomarker discovery and pathogenesis elucidation in tuberculosis (TB). We aim to profile lipidome of Mtb-infected individuals, offer novel lipid signatures for the development of urine-based TB testing, and provide new insights into the lipid metabolism after Mtb infection. Methods: Urine-derived extracellular vesicles from 41 participants (including healthy, pulmonary tuberculosis, latent tuberculosis patients, and other lung disease groups) were isolated and individually detected using targeted lipidomics and proteomics technology platforms. Biomarkers were screened by multivariate and univariate statistical analysis and evaluated by SPSS software. Correlation analyses were performed on lipids and proteins using the R Hmisc package. Results: Overall, we identified 226 lipids belonging to 14 classes. Of these, 7 potential lipid biomarkers for TB and 6 for latent TB infection (LTBI) were identified, all of which were classified into diacylglycerol (DAG), monoacylglycerol (MAG), free fatty acid (FFA), and cholesteryl ester (CE). Among them, FFA (20:1) was the most promising biomarker target in diagnosing TB/LTBI from other compared groups and also have great diagnostic performance in distinguishing TB from LTBI with AUC of 0.952. In addition, enhanced lipolysis happened as early as individuals got latent Mtb infection, and ratio of raft lipids was gradually elevated along TB progression. Conclusion: This study demonstrated individualized lipid profile of urinary EVs in patients with Mtb infection, revealed novel potential lipid biomarkers for TB/LTBI diagnosis, and explored mechanisms by which EV lipid raft-dependent bio-processes might affect pathogenesis. It lays a solid foundation for the subsequent diagnosis and therapeutic intervention of TB.
PXD050432	38873411	Mechanism of isorhynchophylline in lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury based on proteomic technology. 	Mechanism of isorhynchophylline in lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury based on proteomic technology	IsorhynchophyllineAcute lung injuryProteomic technology, Nano-LC-MS/MS, RT-PCR, TUNEL	Isorhynchophylline (IRN), a tetracyclic indole alkaloid, has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities against cardiovascular diseases and central nervous system disorders. Acute lung injury (ALI) is a manifestation of inflammation concentrated in the lungs and has a high incidence rate and mortality The purpose of this study is to explain the mechanism of IRN in the treatment of acute lung injury and to provide a new scheme for clinical treatment. The experimental mice were divided into three groups: CTRL, LPS, LPS+IRN. The mouse model of ALI was established by inhaling LPS solution through nose. After continuous administration of IRN solution for 7 days, the mice in LPS+IRN group were killed and the lung tissue was collected for detection. Proteomic (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD050432) results showed that 5727 proteins were detected in mouse lung tissues, and 16 proteins were screened out. IRN could reverse the trend of these differential proteins. In addition, IRN can act on integrin alphaM to reduce neutrophil recruitment and thereby produce anti-inflammatory effects and may suppress neutrophil migration through the leukocyte transendothelial migration pathway. TUNEL and RT-PCR experiments revealed that LPS-induced ALI in mice increases the apoptosis of lung tissues, damage to alveolar epithelial cells and levels of inflammatory factors. Treatment with IRN can repair tissues, improve lung tissue pathology and reduce lung inflammation.
PXD051316	38874468	HDAC4 influences the DNA damage response and counteracts senescence by assembling with HDAC1/HDAC2 to control H2BK120 acetylation and homology-directed repair. 	HDAC4 interactors identified by MS/MS	HDAC4, MS/MS, senescence	Access to DNA is the first level of control in regulating gene transcription, a control that is also critical for maintaining DNA integrity. Cellular senescence is characterized by profound transcriptional rearrangements and accumulation of DNA lesions. Here, we discovered an epigenetic complex between HDAC4 and HDAC1/HDAC2 that is involved in the erase of H2BK120 acetylation. The HDAC4/HDAC1/HDAC2 complex modulates the efficiency of DNA repair by homologous recombination, through dynamic deacetylation of H2BK120. Deficiency of HDAC4 leads to accumulation of H2BK120ac, impaired recruitment of BRCA1 and CtIP to the site of lesions, accumulation of damaged DNA and senescence. In senescent cells this complex is disassembled because of increased proteasomal degradation of HDAC4. Forced expression of HDAC4 during RAS-induced senescence reduces the genomic spread of gammaH2AX. It also affects H2BK120ac levels, which are increased in DNA-damaged regions that accumulate during RAS-induced senescence. In summary, degradation of HDAC4 during senescence causes the accumulation of damaged DNA and contributes to the activation of the transcriptional program controlled by super-enhancers that maintains senescence.
PXD045883	38876188	A proteomic approach supports the clinical relevance of TAT-Cx43266-283 in glioblastoma. 	DIA-MS proteomics of untreated and TAT-Cx43266-283-treated G166 GSCs	glioblastoma GSCs DIA-MS Src-inhibitor	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most frequent and aggressive primary brain cancer. The Src inhibitor, TAT-Cx43266-283, exerts antitumor effects in in vitro and in vivo models of GBM. Because addressing the mechanism of action is essential to translate these results to a clinical setting, in this study we carried out an unbiased proteomic approach. Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry proteomics allowed the identification of 190 proteins whose abundance was modified by TAT-Cx43266-283. Our results are consistent with the inhibition of Src as the mechanism of action of TAT-Cx43266-283 and unveiled antitumor effectors, such as p120 catenin. Changes in the abundance of several proteins suggest that TAT-Cx43266-283 may also impact the brain microenvironment. Importantly, the proteins whose abundance was reduced by TAT-Cx43266-283 correlated with an improved GBM patient survival in clinical datasets and none of the proteins whose abundance was increased by TAT-Cx43266-283 correlated with shorter survival, supporting its use in clinical trials.
PXD052737	38876280	Comparative proteomics reveals energy and carbon metabolism changes in Scenedesmus quadricauda mutants induced by heavy-ion beam irradiation. 	Comparative proteomics reveals energy and carbon metabolism changes in Scenedesmus quadricauda mutants induced by heavy-ion beam irradiation	Comparative proteomics analysis, Heavy-ion beams mutagenesis, Scenedesmus quadricauda	Microalgae's superior ability to fix carbon dioxide into biomass and high-value bioproducts remains underutilized in biotechnological applications due to a lack of comprehensive understanding of their carbon metabolism and energy conversion. In this work, the strain improvement technique heavy-ion beams (HIB) mutagenesis was employed on the environmentally adaptable microalgae Scenedesmus quadricauda. After several rounds of screening, two contrasting mutants were identified. S-#4 showed low photosynthetic activity and biomass productivity, while S-#26 exhibited adaptability to prolonged high light stress, achieving a 28.34 % increase in biomass yield compared to the wild-type strain. Integrating their photosynthetic characteristics and comparative proteomic analysis revealed that the contrasting protein regulations from central carbon metabolism mainly affects the two mutants' opposite biomass accumulation. Therefore, the divergent regulation of the tricarboxylic acid cycle following HIB mutagenesis could be potential targets for engineering microalgae with superior biomass and high-value products.
PXD050914	38876300	The proteostasis interactomes of trafficking-deficient variants of the voltage-gated potassium channel KV11.1 associated with Long QT Syndrome. 	T he proteostasis interactomes of trafficking - deficient K V 11.1 variants associated with Long QT Syndrome and pharmacological chaperone rescue	K V 11.1, Long QT Syndrome, hERG, interactome, ion channel, trafficking	The voltage-gated potassium ion channel KV11.1 plays a critical role in cardiac repolarization. Genetic variants that render Kv11.1 dysfunctional cause Long QT Syndrome (LQTS), which is associated with fatal arrhythmias. Approximately 90% of LQTS-associated variants cause intracellular protein transport (trafficking) dysfunction, which pharmacological chaperones like E-4031 can rescue. Protein folding and trafficking decisions are regulated by chaperones, protein quality control factors, and trafficking machinery comprising the cellular proteostasis network. Here, we test whether trafficking dysfunction is associated with alterations in the proteostasis network of pathogenic Kv11.1 variants and whether pharmacological chaperones can normalize the proteostasis network of responsive variants. We used affinity-purification coupled with tandem mass tag-based quantitative mass spectrometry to assess protein interaction changes of wild-type (WT) KV11.1 or trafficking-deficient channel variants in the presence or absence of E4031. We identified 572 core KV11.1 protein interactors. Trafficking-deficient variants KV11.1-G601S and KV11.1-G601S-G965* had significantly increased interactions with proteins responsible for folding, trafficking, and degradation compared to WT. We confirmed previous findings that the proteasome is critical for KV11.1 degradation. Our report provides the first comprehensive characterization of protein quality control mechanisms of KV11.1. We find extensive interactome remodeling associated with trafficking-deficient KV11.1 variants, and with pharmacological chaperone rescue of KV11.1 cell surface expression. The identified protein interactions could be targeted therapeutically to improve KV11.1 trafficking and treat Long QT Syndrome.
PXD052839	38876310	The PDE4 inhibitor apremilast modulates ethanol responses in Gabrb1-S409A knock-in mice via PKA-dependent and independent mechanisms. 	The PDE4 inhibitor apremilast modulates ethanol responses in Gabrb1 S409A knock-in mice via PKA-dependent and independent mechanisms	Apremilast, Ethanol, GABA A Receptor, GABRB1, Mutany, PKA	We previously showed that the PDE4 inhibitor apremilast reduces ethanol consumption in mice by protein kinase A (PKA) and GABAergic mechanisms. Preventing PKA phosphorylation of GABAA beta3 subunits partially blocked apremilast-mediated decreases in drinking. Here, we produced Gabrb1-S409A mice to render GABAA beta1 subunits resistant to PKA-mediated phosphorylation. Mass spectrometry confirmed the presence of the S409A mutation and lack of changes in beta1 subunit expression or phosphorylation at other residues. beta1-S409A male and female mice did not differ from wild-type C57BL/6J mice in expression of Gabrb1, Gabrb2, or Gabrb3 subunits or in behavioral characteristics. Apremilast prolonged recovery from ethanol ataxia to a greater extent in Gabrb1-S409A mice but prolonged recovery from zolpidem and propofol to a similar extent in both genotypes. Apremilast shortened recovery from diazepam ataxia in wild-type but prolonged recovery in Gabrb1-S409A mice. In wild-type mice, the PKA inhibitor H89 prevented apremilast modulation of ataxia by ethanol and diazepam, but not by zolpidem. In Gabrb1-S409A mice, inhibiting PKA or EPAC2 (exchange protein directly activated by cAMP) partially reversed apremilast potentiation of ethanol, diazepam, and zolpidem ataxia. Apremilast prevented acute tolerance to ethanol ataxia in both genotypes, but there were no genotype differences in ethanol consumption before or after apremilast. In contrast to results in Gabrb3-S408A/S409A mice, PKA phosphorylation of beta1-containing GABAA receptors is not required for apremilast's effects on acute tolerance or on ethanol consumption but is required for its ability to decrease diazepam intoxication. Besides PKA we identified EPAC2 as an additional cAMP-dependent mechanism by which apremilast regulates responses to GABAergic drugs.
PXD051630	38877852	Adipose Kiss1 controls aerobic exercise-related adaptive responses in adipose tissue energy homeostasis. 	Adipose Kiss1 controls aerobic exercise-related adaptive responses in adipose tissue energy homeostasis	Adipose tissue, Aerobic oxidation, Energy metabolism, Exercise, Kiss1, Kisspeptin	Kisspeptin signaling regulates energy homeostasis. Adiposity is the principal source and receiver of peripheral Kisspeptin, and adipose Kiss1 metastasis suppressor (Kiss1) gene expression is stimulated by exercise. However, whether the adipose Kiss1 gene regulates energy homeostasis and plays a role in adaptive alterations during prolonged exercise remains unknown. Here, we investigated the role of Kiss1 role in mice and adipose tissues and the adaptive changes it induces after exercise, using adipose-specific Kiss1 knockout (Kiss1(adipoq-/-)) and adeno-associated virus-induced adipose tissue Kiss1-overexpressing (Kiss1(adipoq over)) mice. We found that adipose-derived kisspeptin signal regulates lipid and glucose homeostasis to maintain systemic energy homeostasis, but in a sex-dependent manner, with more pronounced metabolic changes in female mice. Kiss1 regulated adaptive alterations of genes and proteins in tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) pathways in female gWAT following prolonged aerobic exercise. We could further show that adipose Kiss1 deficiency leads to reduced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma co-activator 1 alpha (PGC-1alpha) protein content of soleus muscle and maximum oxygen uptake (VO2 max) of female mice after prolonged exercise. Therefore, adipose Kisspeptin may be a novel adipokine that increases organ sensitivity to glucose, lipids, and oxygen following exercise.
PXD051644	38879089	Dysregulation of baseline and learning-dependent protein degradation in the aged hippocampus. 	Protein degradation targets in hippocampus of the aged brain following context exposure	K48, aging, context, hippocampus, ubiquitin	The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) controls the majority of protein degradation in cells and dysregulation of the UPS has been implicated in the pathophysiology of numerous neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. Further, strong evidence supports a critical role for the UPS in synaptic plasticity and memory formation. However, while proteasome function is known to decrease broadly in the brain across the lifespan, whether it changes in the hippocampus, a region critical for memory storage and among the first impacted in Alzheimer's disease, at rest and following learning in the aged brain remains unknown. Further, which proteins have altered targeting for protein degradation in the aged hippocampus has yet to be explored and whether learning in advanced age interacts with changes in ubiquitin-proteasome function across the lifespan remains unknown. Here, using proteasome activity assays and unbiased proteomic analyses, we report age-dependent changes in proteasome activity and degradation-specific K48 polyubiquitin protein targeting in the hippocampus and retrosplenial cortex of male and female rats across the lifespan. In the hippocampus, the targets of altered protein degradation were involved in transcription and astrocyte structure or G-protein and Interferon signaling in males and females, respectively. Importantly, we found that contextual fear conditioning led to an increase in proteasome activity and K48 polyubiquitin protein targeting in the hippocampus of aged male rats, a result in direct contrast to what was previously reported in young adult animals. Together, these data suggest that changes in protein degradation in the hippocampus across the lifespan may be contributing to age-related memory loss.
PXD046249	38879593	Acoustic ejection mass spectrometry empowers ultra-fast protein biomarker quantification. 	Acoustic Ejection Mass Spectrometry Empowers Ultra-Fast Peptide Biomarker Quantification... A Paradigm shift	Acoustic Ejection Mass Spectrometry, Biomarkers, Inflammation, SARS-CoV-2	The global scientific response to COVID 19 highlighted the urgent need for increased throughput and capacity in bioanalytical laboratories, especially for the precise quantification of proteins that pertain to health and disease. Acoustic ejection mass spectrometry (AEMS) represents a much-needed paradigm shift for ultra-fast biomarker screening. Here, a quantitative AEMS assays is presented, employing peptide immunocapture to enrich (i) 10 acute phase response (APR) protein markers from plasma, and (ii) SARS-CoV-2 NCAP peptides from nasopharyngeal swabs. The APR proteins were quantified in 267 plasma samples, in triplicate in 4.8 h, with %CV from 4.2% to 10.5%. SARS-CoV-2 peptides were quantified in triplicate from 145 viral swabs in 10 min. This assay represents a 15-fold speed improvement over LC-MS, with instrument stability demonstrated across 10,000 peptide measurements. The combination of speed from AEMS and selectivity from peptide immunocapture enables ultra-high throughput, reproducible quantitative biomarker screening in very large cohorts.
PXD049447	38879723	Lactylation of NAT10 promotes N(4)-acetylcytidine modification on tRNA(Ser-CGA-1-1) to boost oncogenic DNA virus KSHV reactivation. 	Lactylation of NAT10 promotes N4acetylcytidine modification on tRNASer-CGA-1-1 to boost oncogenic DNA virus KSHV reactivation	KSHV, N4acetylcytidine, NAT10, lactylation, lytic reactivation	N(4)-acetylcytidine (ac(4)C), a conserved but recently rediscovered RNA modification on tRNAs, rRNAs and mRNAs, is catalyzed by N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10). Lysine acylation is a ubiquitous protein modification that controls protein functions. Our latest study demonstrates a NAT10-dependent ac(4)C modification, which occurs on the polyadenylated nuclear RNA (PAN) encoded by oncogenic DNA virus Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), can induce KSHV reactivation from latency and activate inflammasome. However, it remains unclear whether a novel lysine acylation occurs in NAT10 during KSHV reactivation and how this acylation of NAT10 regulates tRNAs ac(4)C modification. Here, we showed that NAT10 was lactylated by alpha-tubulin acetyltransferase 1 (ATAT1), as a writer at the critical domain, to exert RNA acetyltransferase function and thus increase the ac(4)C level of tRNA(Ser-CGA-1-1). Mutagenesis at the ac(4)C site in tRNA(Ser-CGA-1-1) inhibited its ac(4)C modifications, translation efficiency of viral lytic genes, and virion production. Mechanistically, KSHV PAN orchestrated NAT10 and ATAT1 to enhance NAT10 lactylation, resulting in tRNA(Ser-CGA-1-1) ac(4)C modification, eventually boosting KSHV reactivation. Our findings reveal a novel post-translational modification in NAT10, as well as expand the understanding about tRNA-related ac(4)C modification during KSHV replication, which may be exploited to design therapeutic strategies for KSHV-related diseases.
PXD036116	38880916	Diabetic microenvironment deteriorates the regenerative capacities of adipose mesenchymal stromal cells. 	Diabetic microenvironment deteriorates the regenerative capacities of adipose mesenchymal stromal cells	adipose, diabetic, mesenchymal stromal cells	BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes is an endocrine disorder characterized by compromised insulin sensitivity that eventually leads to overt disease. Adipose stem cells (ASCs) showed promising potency in improving type 2 diabetes and its complications through their immunomodulatory and differentiation capabilities. However, the hyperglycaemia of the diabetic microenvironment may exert a detrimental effect on the functionality of ASCs. Herein, we investigate ASC homeostasis and regenerative potential in the diabetic milieu. METHODS: We conducted data collection and functional enrichment analysis to investigate the differential gene expression profile of MSCs in the diabetic microenvironment. Next, ASCs were cultured in a medium containing diabetic serum (DS) or normal non-diabetic serum (NS) for six days and one-month periods. Proteomic analysis was carried out, and ASCs were then evaluated for apoptosis, changes in the expression of surface markers and DNA repair genes, intracellular oxidative stress, and differentiation capacity. The crosstalk between the ASCs and the diabetic microenvironment was determined by the expression of pro and anti-inflammatory cytokines and cytokine receptors. RESULTS: The enrichment of MSCs differentially expressed genes in diabetes points to an alteration in oxidative stress regulating pathways in MSCs. Next, proteomic analysis of ASCs in DS revealed differentially expressed proteins that are related to enhanced cellular apoptosis, DNA damage and oxidative stress, altered immunomodulatory and differentiation potential. Our experiments confirmed these data and showed that ASCs cultured in DS suffered apoptosis, intracellular oxidative stress, and defective DNA repair. Under diabetic conditions, ASCs also showed compromised osteogenic, adipogenic, and angiogenic differentiation capacities. Both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression were significantly altered by culture of ASCs in DS denoting defective immunomodulatory potential. Interestingly, ASCs showed induction of antioxidative stress genes and proteins such as SIRT1, TERF1, Clusterin and PKM2. CONCLUSION: We propose that this deterioration in the regenerative function of ASCs is partially mediated by the induced oxidative stress and the diabetic inflammatory milieu. The induction of antioxidative stress factors in ASCs may indicate an adaptation mechanism to the increased oxidative stress in the diabetic microenvironment.
PXD046784	38881515	Extracellular Matrix Remodeling Alleviates Memory Deficits in Alzheimer's Disease by Enhancing the Astrocytic Autophagy-Lysosome Pathway. 	Extracellular matrix remodeling enhancing astrocyte lysosome pathway to reverse memory defected in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease, Astrocyte, Extracellular matrix remodeling	Extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling is strongly linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk; however, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, it is found that the injection of chondroitinase ABC (ChABC), mimicking ECM remodeling, into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) reversed short-term memory loss and reduced amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition in 5xFAD mice. ECM remodeling also reactivated astrocytes, reduced the levels of aggrecan in Abeta plaques, and enhanced astrocyte recruitment to surrounding plaques. Importantly, ECM remodeling enhanced the autophagy-lysosome pathway in astrocytes, thereby mediating Abeta clearance and alleviating AD pathology. ECM remodeling also promoted Abeta plaque phagocytosis by astrocytes by activating the astrocytic phagocytosis receptor MERTK and promoting astrocytic vesicle circulation. The study identified a cellular mechanism in which ECM remodeling activates the astrocytic autophagy-lysosomal pathway and alleviates AD pathology. Targeting ECM remodeling may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for AD and serve as a reference for the treatment of this disease.
PXD035554	38881840	Hyperbaric oxygen treatment reveals spatiotemporal OXPHOS plasticity in the porcine heart. 	Complexome profiling of mitochondrial protein complexes from pig heart to study the molecular consequences of hyperbaric oxygen treatment	complexome profiling, mitochondrial respiratory complex assembly, oxidative phosphorylation system	Cardiomyocytes meet their high ATP demand almost exclusively by oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Adequate oxygen supply is an essential prerequisite to keep OXPHOS operational. At least two spatially distinct mitochondrial subpopulations facilitate OXPHOS in cardiomyocytes, i.e. subsarcolemmal (SSM) and interfibrillar mitochondria (IFM). Their intracellular localization below the sarcolemma or buried deep between the sarcomeres suggests different oxygen availability. Here, we studied SSM and IFM isolated from piglet hearts and found significantly lower activities of electron transport chain enzymes and F1FO-ATP synthase in IFM, indicative for compromised energy metabolism. To test the contribution of oxygen availability to this outcome, we ventilated piglets under hyperbaric hyperoxic (HBO) conditions for 240 min. HBO treatment raised OXPHOS enzyme activities in IFM to the level of SSM. Complexome profiling analysis revealed that a high proportion of the F1FO-ATP synthase in the IFM was in a disassembled state prior to the HBO treatment. Upon increased oxygen availability, the enzyme was found to be largely assembled, which may account for the observed increase in OXPHOS complex activities. Although HBO also induced transcription of genes involved in mitochondrial biogenesis, a full proteome analysis revealed only minimal alterations, meaning that HBO-mediated tissue remodeling is an unlikely cause for the observed differences in OXPHOS. We conclude that a previously unrecognized oxygen-regulated mechanism endows cardiac OXPHOS with spatiotemporal plasticity that may underlie the enormous metabolic and contractile adaptability of the heart.
PXD050228	38881867	Proteomic profiling and biomarker discovery for predicting the response to PD-1 inhibitor immunotherapy in gastric cancer patients. 	Proteomic Profiling and Biomarker Discovery for Predicting Response to PD-1 Inhibitor Immunotherapy in Gastric Cancer Patients	Gastric cancer, biomarker, immune checkpoint inhibitor	Background: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized cancer treatment; however, a significant proportion of gastric cancer (GC) patients do not respond to this therapy. Consequently, there is an urgent need to elucidate the mechanisms underlying resistance to ICIs and identify robust biomarkers capable of predicting the response to ICIs at treatment initiation. Methods: In this study, we collected GC tissues from 28 patients prior to the administration of anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1) immunotherapy and conducted protein quantification using high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS). Subsequently, we analyzed differences in protein expression, pathways, and the tumor microenvironment (TME) between responders and non-responders. Furthermore, we explored the potential of these differences as predictive indicators. Finally, using machine learning algorithms, we screened for biomarkers and constructed a predictive model. Results: Our proteomics-based analysis revealed that low activity in the complement and coagulation cascades pathway (CCCP) and a high abundance of activated CD8 T cells are positive signals corresponding to ICIs. By using machine learning, we successfully identified a set of 10 protein biomarkers, and the constructed model demonstrated excellent performance in predicting the response in an independent validation set (N = 14; area under the curve [AUC] = 0.959). Conclusion: In summary, our proteomic analyses unveiled unique potential biomarkers for predicting the response to PD-1 inhibitor immunotherapy in GC patients, which may provide the impetus for precision immunotherapy.
PXD045502	38882153	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal the Role of Matrine in Regulating Lipid Metabolism. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal the Role of Matrine in Lipid Metabolism	Hyperlipidemia, Lipid Metabolism, Matrine	Hyperlipidemia (HLP) is a prevalent systemic metabolic disorder characterized by disrupted lipid metabolism. Statin drugs have long been the primary choice for managing lipid levels, but intolerance issues have prompted the search for alternative treatments. Matrine, a compound derived from the traditional Chinese medicine Kushen, exhibits anti-inflammatory and lipid-lowering properties. Nevertheless, the mechanism by which matrine modulates lipid metabolism remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying matrine's regulation of lipid metabolism. Employing quantitative proteomics, we discovered that matrine increases the expression of LDL receptor (LDLR) in HepG2 and A549 cells, with subsequent experiments validating its role in enhancing LDL uptake. Notably, in hyperlipidemic hamsters, matrine effectively lowered lipid levels without affecting body weight, which highlights LDLR as a critical target for matrine's impact on HLP. Moreover, matrine's potential inhibitory effects on tumor cell LDL uptake hint at broader applications in cancer research. Additionally, thermal proteome profiling analysis identified lipid metabolism-related proteins that may interact with matrine. Together, our study reveals matrine's capacity to upregulate LDLR expression and highlights its potential in treating HLP. These findings offer insights into matrine's mechanism of action and open new avenues for drug research and lipid metabolism regulation.
PXD048073	38882600	Glycogen synthase kinase 3 activity enhances liver inflammation in MASH. 	Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 Activity Enhances Liver Inflammation in Metabolic Dysfunction Associated Steatohepatitis	Hepatosteatosis, LSEC, Liver	Background & Aims: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is characterized by excessive circulating toxic lipids, hepatic steatosis, and liver inflammation. Monocyte adhesion to liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) and transendothelial migration (TEM) are crucial in the inflammatory process. Under lipotoxic stress, LSECs develop a proinflammatory phenotype known as endotheliopathy. However, mediators of endotheliopathy remain unclear. Methods: Primary mouse LSECs isolated from C57BL/6J mice fed chow or MASH-inducing diets rich in fat, fructose, and cholesterol (FFC) were subjected to multi-omics profiling. Mice with established MASH resulting from a choline-deficient high-fat diet (CDHFD) or FFC diet were also treated with two structurally distinct GSK3 inhibitors (LY2090314 and elraglusib [9-ING-41]). Results: Integrated pathway analysis of the mouse LSEC proteome and transcriptome indicated that leukocyte TEM and focal adhesion were the major pathways altered in MASH. Kinome profiling of the LSEC phosphoproteome identified glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta as the major kinase hub in MASH. GSK3beta-activating phosphorylation was increased in primary human LSECs treated with the toxic lipid palmitate and in human MASH. Palmitate upregulated the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2, intracellular adhesion molecule 1, and phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase, via a GSK3-dependent mechanism. Congruently, the adhesive and transendothelial migratory capacities of primary human neutrophils and THP-1 monocytes through the LSEC monolayer under lipotoxic stress were reduced by GSK3 inhibition. Treatment with the GSK3 inhibitors LY2090314 and elraglusib ameliorated liver inflammation, injury, and fibrosis in FFC- and CDHFD-fed mice, respectively. Immunophenotyping using cytometry by mass cytometry by time of flight of intrahepatic leukocytes from CDHFD-fed mice treated with elraglusib showed reduced infiltration of proinflammatory monocyte-derived macrophages and monocyte-derived dendritic cells. Conclusion: GSK3 inhibition attenuates lipotoxicity-induced LSEC endotheliopathy and could serve as a potential therapeutic strategy for treating human MASH. Impact and Implications: LSECs under lipotoxic stress in MASH develop a proinflammatory phenotype known as endotheliopathy, with obscure mediators and functional outcomes. The current study identified GSK3 as the major driver of LSEC endotheliopathy, examined its pathogenic role in myeloid cell-associated liver inflammation, and defined the therapeutic efficacy of pharmacological GSK3 inhibitors in murine MASH. This study provides preclinical data for the future investigation of GSK3 pharmacological inhibitors in human MASH. The results of this study are important to hepatologists, vascular biologists, and investigators studying the mechanisms of inflammatory liver disease and MASH, as well as those interested in drug development.
PXD038546	38884453	Immunosuppression with cyclosporine versus tacrolimus shows distinctive nephrotoxicity profiles within renal compartments. 	Comparing nephrotoxicity of the calcineurin inhibitors, cyclosporine A and tacrolimus, identifies their differential effects within the renal compartments	Calcineurin, Cyclosporine A, Kidney, Nephrotoxicity, Phosphoproteome, Rat, Tacrolimus	AIM: Calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) are the backbone for immunosuppression after solid organ transplantation. Although successful in preventing kidney transplant rejection, their nephrotoxic side effects contribute to allograft injury. Renal parenchymal lesions occur for cyclosporine A (CsA) as well as for the currently favored tacrolimus (Tac). We aimed to study whether chronic CsA and Tac exposures, before reaching irreversible nephrotoxic damage, affect renal compartments differentially and whether related pathogenic mechanisms can be identified. METHODS: CsA and Tac were administered chronically in wild type Wistar rats using osmotic minipumps over 4 weeks. Functional parameters were controlled. Electron microscopy, confocal, and 3D-structured illumination microscopy were used for histopathology. Clinical translatability was tested in human renal biopsies. Standard biochemical, RNA-seq, and proteomic technologies were applied to identify implicated molecular pathways. RESULTS: Both drugs caused significant albeit differential damage in vasculature and nephron. The glomerular filtration barrier was more affected by Tac than by CsA, showing prominent deteriorations in endothelium and podocytes along with impaired VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling and podocyte-specific gene expression. By contrast, proximal tubule epithelia were more severely affected by CsA than by Tac, revealing lysosomal dysfunction, enhanced apoptosis, impaired proteostasis and oxidative stress. Lesion characteristics were confirmed in human renal biopsies. CONCLUSION: We conclude that pathogenetic alterations in the renal compartments are specific for either treatment. Considering translation to the clinical setting, CNI choice should reflect individual risk factors for renal vasculature and tubular epithelia. As a step in this direction, we share protein signatures identified from multiomics with potential pathognomonic relevance.
PXD051071	38885176	Tear Proteins Altered in Patients with Persistent Eye Pain after Refractive Surgery: Biomarker Candidate Discovery. 	Tear proteins altered in patients with persistent eye pain after refractive surgery: biomarker candidate discovery	LASIK, PRK, biomarker, corneal pain, eye pain, human tears, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tags	Some patients develop persistent eye pain after refractive surgery, but factors that cause or sustain pain are unknown. We tested whether tear proteins of patients with pain 3 months after surgery differ from those of patients without pain. Patients undergoing refractive surgery (laser in situ keratomileusis or photorefractive keratectomy ) were recruited from 2 clinics, and tears were collected 3 months after surgery. Participants rated their eye pain using a numerical rating scale (NRS, 0-10; no pain-worst pain) at baseline, 1 day, and 3 months after surgery. Using tandem mass tag proteomic analysis, we examined tears from patients with pain [NRS >= 3 at 3 months (n = 16)] and patients with no pain [NRS <= 1 at 3 months (n = 32)] after surgery. A subset of proteins (83 of 2748 detected, 3.0%) were associated with pain 3 months after surgery. High-dimensional statistical models showed that the magnitude of differential expression was not the only important factor in classifying tear samples from pain patients. Models utilizing 3 or 4 proteins had better classification performance than single proteins and represented differences in both directions (higher or lower in pain). Thus, patterns of protein differences may serve as biomarkers of postsurgical eye pain as well as potential therapeutic targets.
PXD042055	38885281	Comparative proteomics reveals that fatty acid metabolism is involved in myocardial adaptation to chronic hypoxic injury. 	Comparative Proteomics Reveals the Mechanism of Myocardial Adaptation to Chronic Hypoxic Injury	Cardiomyocyte, Chronic Hypoxia, Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease, Mechanism	Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most serious form of heart disease, and chronic hypoxia is the basic physiological process underlying CHD. Some patients with CHD do not undergo surgery, and thus, they remain susceptible to chronic hypoxia, suggesting that some protective mechanism might exist in CHD patients. However, the mechanism underlying myocardial adaptation to chronic hypoxia remains unclear. Proteomics was used to identify the differentially expressed proteins in cardiomyocytes cultured under hypoxia for different durations. Western blotting assays were used to verify protein expression. A Real-Time Cell Analyzer (RTCA) was used to analyze cell growth. In this study, 3881 proteins were identified by proteomics. Subsequent bioinformatics analysis revealed that proteins were enriched in regulating oxidoreductase activity. Functional similarity cluster analyses showed that chronic hypoxia resulted in proteins enrichment in the mitochondrial metabolic pathway. Further KEGG analyses found that the proteins involved in fatty acid metabolism, the TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation were markedly upregulated. Moreover, knockdown of CPT1A or ECI1, which is critical for fatty acid degradation, suppressed the growth of cardiomyocytes under chronic hypoxia. The results of our study revealed that chronic hypoxia activates fatty acid metabolism to maintain the growth of cardiomyocytes.
PXD046332	38885440	Identification and Characterization of a Pepsin- and Chymotrypsin-Resistant Peptide in the alpha Subunit of the 11S Globulin Legumin from Common Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). 	Identification and Characterization of a Pepsin and Chymotrypsin-Resistant Peptide in the alpha Subunit of the 11S Globulin Legumin from Common Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.)	11S globulin, Phaseolus vulgaris, chymotrypsin, common bean, legumin, pepsin, resistance to proteolytic digestion	The 11S globulin legumin typically accounts for approximately 3% of the total protein in common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris). It was previously reported that a legumin peptide of approximately 20 kDa is resistant to pepsin digestion. Sequence prediction suggested that the pepsin-resistant peptide is located at the C-terminal end of the alpha-subunit, within a glutamic acid-rich domain, overlapping with a chymotrypsin-resistant peptide. Using purified legumin, the peptide of approximately 20 kDa was found to be resistant to pepsin digestion in a pH-dependent manner, and its location was determined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and LC-MS-MS. The location of the chymotrypsin-resistant peptide was confirmed by immunoblotting with peptide-specific polyclonal antibodies. The presence of a consensus site for proline hydroxylation and arabinosylation, the detection of hydroxyproline residues, purification by lectin affinity chromatography, and a difference in electrophoretic migration between the chymotrypsin- and pepsin-resistant peptides suggest the presence of a large O-glycan within these peptides.
PXD041579	38888964	The Alzheimer's disease-linked protease BACE2 cleaves VEGFR3 and modulates its signaling. 	Plasma proteomics of BACE2 KO mice	BACE2, beta secretase, plasma	The beta-secretase BACE1 is a central drug target for Alzheimer's disease. Clinically tested, BACE1-directed inhibitors also block the homologous protease BACE2. Yet, little is known about physiological BACE2 substrates and functions in vivo. Here, we identify BACE2 as the protease shedding the lymphangiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 (VEGFR3). Inactivation of BACE2, but not BACE1, inhibited shedding of VEGFR3 from primary human lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) and reduced release of the shed, soluble VEGFR3 (sVEGFR3) ectodomain into the blood of mice, non-human primates and humans. Functionally, BACE2 inactivation increased full-length VEGFR3 and enhanced VEGFR3 signaling in LECs and also in vivo in zebrafish, where enhanced migration of LECs was observed. Thus, this study identifies BACE2 as a modulator of lymphangiogenic VEGFR3 signaling and demonstrates the utility of sVEGFR3 as a pharmacodynamic plasma marker for BACE2 activity in vivo, a prerequisite for developing BACE1-selective inhibitors for a safer prevention of Alzheimer's disease.
PXD044959	38890273	Tau(P301L) disengages from the proteosome core complex and neurogranin coincident with enhanced neuronal network excitability. 	0N4R Tau and 0N4R Tau P301L Neuronal Interactomes	Human Tau, Mouse Neurons, P301L Mutation, Synapse, Tau	Tauopathies are characterised by the pathological accumulation of misfolded tau. The emerging view is that toxic tau species drive synaptic dysfunction and potentially tau propagation before measurable neurodegeneration is evident, but the underlying molecular events are not well defined. Human non-mutated 0N4R tau (tau(WT)) and P301L mutant 0N4R tau (tau(P301L)) were expressed in mouse primary cortical neurons using adeno-associated viruses to monitor early molecular changes and synaptic function before the onset of neuronal loss. In this model tau(P301L) was differentially phosphorylated relative to tau(wt) with a notable increase in phosphorylation at ser262. Affinity purification - mass spectrometry combined with tandem mass tagging was used to quantitatively compare the tau(WT) and tau(P301L) interactomes. This revealed an enrichment of tau(P301L) with ribosomal proteins but a decreased interaction with the proteasome core complex and reduced tau(P301L) degradation. Differences in the interaction of tau(P301L) with members of a key synaptic calcium-calmodulin signalling pathway were also identified, most notably, increased association with CaMKII but reduced association with calcineurin and the candidate AD biomarker neurogranin. Decreased association of neurogranin to tau(P301L) corresponded with the appearance of enhanced levels of extracellular neurogranin suggestive of potential release or leakage from synapses. Finally, analysis of neuronal network activity using micro-electrode arrays showed that overexpression of tau(P301L) promoted basal hyperexcitability coincident with these changes in the tau interactome and implicating tau in specific early alterations in synaptic function.
PXD048262	38890312	Aryl amino acetamides prevent Plasmodium falciparum ring development via targeting the lipid-transfer protein PfSTART1. 	WEHI991 drug target identification by DIA Solvent PISA	PISA, Plasmodium, SIP, SPP, Solvent Proteome Profiling, Target ID, WEHI991	With resistance to most antimalarials increasing, it is imperative that new drugs are developed. We previously identified an aryl acetamide compound, MMV006833 (M-833), that inhibited the ring-stage development of newly invaded merozoites. Here, we select parasites resistant to M-833 and identify mutations in the START lipid transfer protein (PF3D7_0104200, PfSTART1). Introducing PfSTART1 mutations into wildtype parasites reproduces resistance to M-833 as well as to more potent analogues. PfSTART1 binding to the analogues is validated using organic solvent-based Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (Solvent PISA) assays. Imaging of invading merozoites shows the inhibitors prevent the development of ring-stage parasites potentially by inhibiting the expansion of the encasing parasitophorous vacuole membrane. The PfSTART1-targeting compounds also block transmission to mosquitoes and with multiple stages of the parasite's lifecycle being affected, PfSTART1 represents a drug target with a new mechanism of action.
PXD043535	38890388	Acetylation-dependent regulation of core spliceosome modulates hepatocellular carcinoma cassette exons and sensitivity to PARP inhibitors. 	Immunoprecipitation results against SmD2	HCCLM3, Immunoprecipitation, SmD2	Despite the importance of spliceosome core components in cellular processes, their roles in cancer development, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), remain poorly understood. In this study, we uncover a critical role for SmD2, a core component of the spliceosome machinery, in modulating DNA damage in HCC through its impact on BRCA1/FANC cassette exons and expression. Our findings reveal that SmD2 depletion sensitizes HCC cells to PARP inhibitors, expanding the potential therapeutic targets. We also demonstrate that SmD2 acetylation by p300 leads to its degradation, while HDAC2-mediated deacetylation stabilizes SmD2. Importantly, we show that the combination of Romidepsin and Olaparib exhibits significant therapeutic potential in multiple HCC models, highlighting the promise of targeting SmD2 acetylation and HDAC2 inhibition alongside PARP inhibitors for HCC treatment.
PXD049998	38891077	Altered Extracellular Vesicle-Derived Protein and microRNA Signatures in Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid from Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. 	Altered Extracellular Vesicle-derived protein and microRNA signatures in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from COPD patients	COPD, Extracellular Vesicles, bronchoalveolar lavage, inflammation, miRNA	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive lung disease for which there is no cure. Accumulating research results suggest a role for extracellular vesicles (EVs) in the pathogenesis of COPD. This study aimed to uncover the involvement of EVs and their molecular cargo in the progression of COPD by identification of EV-associated protein and microRNA (miRNA) profiles. We isolated EVs from the bronchial alveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of 18 patients with COPD and 11 healthy controls using size-exclusion chromatography. EV isolates were characterized using nanoparticle tracking analysis and protein content. Proteomic analysis revealed a higher abundance of 284 proteins (log2FC > 1) and a lower abundance of 3 proteins (log2FC < -1) in EVs derived from patients with COPD. Ingenuity pathway analysis showed that proteins enriched in COPD-associated EVs trigger inflammatory responses, including neutrophil degranulation. Variances in surface receptors and ligands associated with COPD EVs suggest a preferential interaction with alveolar cells. Small RNAseq analysis identified a higher abundance of ten miRNAs and a lower abundance of one miRNA in EVs from COPD versus controls (Basemean > 100, FDR < 0.05). Our data indicate that the molecular composition of EVs in the BALF of patients with COPD is altered compared to healthy control EVs. Several components in COPD EVs were identified that may perpetuate inflammation and alveolar tissue destruction.
PXD051329	38891869	The Tilapia Cyst Tissue Enclosing the Proliferating Myxobolus bejeranoi Parasite Exhibits Cornified Structure and Immune Barrier Function. 	A proteomic analysis sheds light on the cyst structure and its immune barrier function in tilapia infected by the parasite Myxobolus bejeranoi.	cyst, myxozoan parasite, tilapia	Myxozoa, a unique group of obligate endoparasites within the phylum Cnidaria, can cause emerging diseases in wild and cultured fish populations. Recently, the myxozoan Myxobolus bejeranoi has been identified as a prevalent pathogen infecting the gills of cultured hybrid tilapia, leading to systemic immune suppression and considerable mortality. Here, we employed a proteomic approach to examine the impact of M. bejeranoi infection on fish gills, focusing on the structure of the granulomata, or cyst, formed around the proliferating parasite to prevent its spread to surrounding tissue. Enrichment analysis showed increased immune response and oxidative stress in infected gill tissue, most markedly in the cyst's wall. The intense immune reaction included a consortium of endopeptidase inhibitors, potentially combating the myxozoan arsenal of secreted proteases. Analysis of the cyst's proteome and histology staining indicated that keratin intermediate filaments contribute to its structural rigidity. Moreover, we uncovered skin-specific proteins, including a grainyhead-like transcription factor and a teleost-specific S100 calcium-binding protein that may play a role in epithelial morphogenesis and cysts formation. These findings deepen our understanding of the proteomic elements that grant the cyst its distinctive nature at the critical interface between the fish host and myxozoan parasite.
PXD052306	38892106	Fatty Acid Synthase as Interacting Anticancer Target of the Terpenoid Myrianthic Acid Disclosed by MS-Based Proteomics Approaches. 	Fatty Acid Synthase as Interacting Anticancer Target of the Terpenoid Myrianthic Acid disclosed by MS-Based Proteomics Approaches	DARTS, drug discovery, fatty acid synthase, functional proteomics, molecular docking, pre-clinical investigations, t-LiP	This research focuses on the target deconvolution of the natural compound myrianthic acid, a triterpenoid characterized by an ursane skeleton isolated from the roots of Myrianthus arboreus and from Oenothera maritima Nutt. (Onagraceae), using MS-based chemical proteomic techniques. Application of drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) and targeted-limited proteolysis coupled to mass spectrometry (t-LiP-MS) led to the identification of the enzyme fatty acid synthase (FAS) as an interesting macromolecular counterpart of myrianthic acid. This result, confirmed by comparison with the natural ursolic acid, was thoroughly investigated and validated in silico by molecular docking, which gave a precise picture of the interactions in the MA/FAS complex. Moreover, biological assays showcased the inhibitory activity of myrianthic acid against the FAS enzyme, most likely related to its antiproliferative activity towards tumor cells. Given the significance of FAS in specific pathologies, especially cancer, the myrianthic acid structural moieties could serve as a promising reference point to start the potential development of innovative approaches in therapy.
PXD052364	38893151	Influence of Aldehyde Dehydrogenase Inhibition on Stemness of Endometrial Cancer Stem Cells. 	Impact of Aldehyde Dehydrogenase Inhibition on the Stemness of Endometrial Cancer Stem Cells	cancer stem cells, endometrial cancer	Endometrial cancer is one of the most common gynaecological malignancies. Although often diagnosed at an early stage, there is a subset of patients with recurrent and metastatic disease for whom current treatments are not effective. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) play a pivotal role in triggering tumorigenesis, disease progression, recurrence, and metastasis, as high aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity is associated with invasiveness and chemotherapy resistance. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the effects of ALDH inhibition in endometrial CSCs. ECC-1 and RL95-2 cells were submitted to a sphere-forming protocol to obtain endometrial CSCs. ALDH inhibition was evaluated through ALDH activity and expression, sphere-forming capacity, self-renewal, projection area, and CD133, CD44, CD24, and P53 expression. A mass spectrometry-based proteomic study was performed to determine the proteomic profile of endometrial cancer cells upon N,N-diethylaminobenzaldehyde (DEAB). DEAB reduced ALDH activity and expression, along with a significant decrease in sphere-forming capacity and projection area, with increased CD133 expression. Additionally, DEAB modulated P53 expression. Endometrial cancer cells display a distinct proteomic profile upon DEAB, sharing 75 up-regulated and 30 down-regulated proteins. In conclusion, DEAB inhibits ALDH activity and expression, influencing endometrial CSC phenotype. Furthermore, ALDH18A1, SdhA, and UBAP2L should be explored as novel molecular targets for endometrial cancer.
PXD052203	38893499	Trichostatin A Promotes Cytotoxicity of Cisplatin, as Evidenced by Enhanced Apoptosis/Cell Death Markers. 	A549 cell treated with DDP+TSA vs DDP	HDACi, cisplatin	Trichostatin A (TSA), a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, promotes the cytotoxicity of the genotoxic anticancer drug cisplatin, yet the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Herein, we revealed that TSA at a low concentration (1 muM) promoted the cisplatin-induced activation of caspase-3/6, which, in turn, increased the level of cleaved PARP1 and degraded lamin A&C, leading to more cisplatin-induced apoptosis and G2/M phase arrest of A549 cancer cells. Both ICP-MS and ToF-SIMS measurements demonstrated a significant increase in DNA-bound platinum in A549 cells in the presence of TSA, which was attributable to TSA-induced increase in the accessibility of genomic DNA to cisplatin attacking. The global quantitative proteomics results further showed that in the presence of TSA, cisplatin activated INF signaling to upregulate STAT1 and SAMHD1 to increase cisplatin sensitivity and downregulated ICAM1 and CD44 to reduce cell migration, synergistically promoting cisplatin cytotoxicity. Furthermore, in the presence of TSA, cisplatin downregulated TFAM and SLC3A2 to enhance cisplatin-induced ferroptosis, also contributing to the promotion of cisplatin cytotoxicity. Importantly, our posttranslational modification data indicated that acetylation at H4K8 played a dominant role in promoting cisplatin cytotoxicity. These findings provide novel insights into better understanding the principle of combining chemotherapy of genotoxic drugs and HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of cancers.
PXD040184	38894951	Propionic acid promotes neurite recovery in damaged multiple sclerosis neurons. 	Propionic acid promotes neurite recovery in damaged multiple sclerosis neurons	damage, iPSCs, microbiome, multiple sclerosis, neurodegeneration, neurons, propionic acid	Neurodegeneration in the autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis still poses a major therapeutic challenge. Effective drugs that target the inflammation can only partially reduce accumulation of neurological deficits and conversion to progressive disease forms. Diet and the associated gut microbiome are currently being discussed as crucial environmental risk factors that determine disease onset and subsequent progression. In people with multiple sclerosis, supplementation of the short-chain fatty acid propionic acid, as a microbial metabolite derived from the fermentation of a high-fiber diet, has previously been shown to regulate inflammation accompanied by neuroprotective properties. We set out to determine whether the neuroprotective impact of propionic acid is a direct mode of action of short-chain fatty acids on CNS neurons. We analysed neurite recovery in the presence of the short-chain fatty acid propionic acid and butyric acid in a reverse-translational disease-in-a-dish model of human-induced primary neurons differentiated from people with multiple sclerosis-derived induced pluripotent stem cells. We found that recovery of damaged neurites is induced by propionic acid and butyric acid. We could also show that administration of butyric acid is able to enhance propionic acid-associated neurite recovery. Whole-cell proteome analysis of induced primary neurons following recovery in the presence of propionic acid revealed abundant changes of protein groups that are associated with the chromatin assembly, translational, and metabolic processes. We further present evidence that these alterations in the chromatin assembly were associated with inhibition of histone deacetylase class I/II following both propionic acid and butyric acid treatment, mediated by free fatty acid receptor signalling. While neurite recovery in the presence of propionic acid is promoted by activation of the anti-oxidative response, administration of butyric acid increases neuronal ATP synthesis in people with multiple sclerosis-specific induced primary neurons.
PXD036613	38896085	Greatwall-Endos-PP2A/B55(Twins) network regulates translation and stability of maternal transcripts in the Drosophila oocyte-to-embryo transition. 	Identification of Endos interacting proteins in Drosophila embryos by immunoprecipitation and LC-MS-MS/MS analysis	Drosophila, Endos, LC-MS-MS/MS, immunoprecipitation, syncytial embryo	The transition from oocyte to embryo requires translation of maternally provided transcripts that in Drosophila is activated by Pan Gu kinase to release a rapid succession of 13 mitotic cycles. Mitotic entry is promoted by several protein kinases that include Greatwall/Mastl, whose Endosulfine substrates antagonize Protein Phosphatase 2A (PP2A), facilitating mitotic Cyclin-dependent kinase 1/Cyclin B kinase activity. Here we show that hyperactive greatwall(Scant) can not only be suppressed by mutants in its Endos substrate but also by mutants in Pan Gu kinase subunits. Conversely, mutants in me31B or trailer hitch, which encode a complex that represses hundreds of maternal mRNAs, enhance greatwall(Scant) . Me31B and Trailer Hitch proteins, known substrates of Pan Gu kinase, copurify with Endos. This echoes findings that budding yeast Dhh1, orthologue of Me31B, associates with Igo1/2, orthologues of Endos and substrates of the Rim15, orthologue of Greatwall. endos-derived mutant embryos show reduced Me31B and elevated transcripts for the mitotic activators Cyclin B, Polo and Twine/Cdc25. Together, our findings demonstrate a previously unappreciated conservation of the Greatwall-Endosulfine pathway in regulating translational repressors and its interactions with the Pan Gu kinase pathway to regulate translation and/or stability of maternal mRNAs upon egg activation.
PXD049297	38896138	Quantitative proteomics reveals cellular responses to individual mAb expression and tunicamycin in CHO cells. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Cellular Responses to Stress and Tunicamycin in CHO Cells	CHO, LFQ, MS/MS, Orbitrap Q Exactive	Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells are popular in the pharmaceutical industry for their ability to produce high concentrations of antibodies and their resemblance to human cells in terms of protein glycosylation patterns. Current data indicate the relevance of CHO cells in the biopharmaceutical industry, with a high number of product commendations and a significant market share for monoclonal antibodies. To enhance the production capabilities of CHO cells, a deep understanding of their cellular and molecular composition is crucial. Genome sequencing and proteomic analysis have provided valuable insights into the impact of the bioprocessing conditions, productivity, and product quality. In our investigation, we conducted a comparative analysis of proteomic profiles in high and low monoclonal antibody-producing cell lines and studied the impact of tunicamycin (TM)-induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. We examined the expression levels of different proteins including unfolded protein response (UPR) target genes by using label-free quantification techniques for protein abundance. Our results show the upregulation of proteins associated with protein folding mechanisms in low producer vs. high producer cell line suggesting a form of ER stress related to specific protein production. Further, Hspa9 and Dnaja3 are notable candidates activated by the mitochondria UPR and play important roles in protein folding processes in mitochondria. We identified significant upregulation of Nedd8 and Lgmn proteins in similar levels which may contribute to UPR stress. Interestingly, the downregulation of Hspa5/Bip and Pdia4 in response to tunicamycin treatment suggests a low-level UPR activation. KEY POINTS: * Proteome profiling of recombinant CHO cells under mild TM treatment. * Identified protein clusters are associated with the unfolded protein response (UPR). * The compared cell lines revealed noticeable disparities in protein expression levels.
PXD050484	38896252	Comparative transcriptomic and proteomic kinetic analysis of adeno-associated virus production systems. 	AAV production system proteomics	rAAV, wtAAV	Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) is a major gene delivery vehicle. We have constructed a stable rAAV producer cell line by integrating essential rAAV genome, viral and helper genes into the genome of HEK293 cell under the control of inducible promoters. Upon induction, the cell line produces transducing rAAV. To gain insight into enhancing rAAV productivity and vector quality, we performed a comparative transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of our synthetic cell line GX2 and two wild-type AAV (wtAAV) production systems, one by virus co-infection and the other by multi-plasmid transfection. The three systems had different kinetics in viral component synthesis but generated comparable copies of AAV genomes; however, the capsid titer of GX2 was an order of magnitude lower compared to those two wtAAV systems, indicating that its capsid production may be insufficient. The genome packaging efficiency was also lower in GX2 despite it produced higher levels of Rep52 proteins than either wtAAV systems, suggesting that Rep52 protein expression may not limit genome packaging. In the two wtAAV systems, VP were the most abundant AAV proteins and their levels continued to increase, while GX2 had high level of wasteful cargo gene expression. Furthermore, upregulated inflammation, innate immune responses, and MAPK signaling, as well as downregulated mitochondrial functions, were commonly observed in either rAAV or wtAAV systems. Overall, this comparative multi-omics study provided rich insights into host cell and viral factors that are potential targets for genetic and process intervention to enhance the productivity of synthetic rAAV producer cell lines. KEY POINTS: * wtAAV infection was more efficient in producing full viral particles than the synthetic cell GX2. * Capsid protein synthesis, genome replication, and packaging may limit rAAV production in GX2. * wtAAV infection and rAAV production in GX2 elicited similar host cell responses.
PXD041428	38898113	AMPK targets PDZD8 to trigger carbon source shift from glucose to glutamine. 	AMPK targets PDZD8 to promote carbon source shift to glutamine	AMPK, ER-mitochondria contact, glutaminolysis	The shift of carbon utilization from primarily glucose to other nutrients is a fundamental metabolic adaptation to cope with decreased blood glucose levels and the consequent decline in glucose oxidation. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) plays crucial roles in this metabolic adaptation. However, the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. Here, we show that PDZ domain containing 8 (PDZD8), which we identify as a new substrate of AMPK activated in low glucose, is required for the low glucose-promoted glutaminolysis. AMPK phosphorylates PDZD8 at threonine 527 (T527) and promotes the interaction of PDZD8 with and activation of glutaminase 1 (GLS1), a rate-limiting enzyme of glutaminolysis. In vivo, the AMPK-PDZD8-GLS1 axis is required for the enhancement of glutaminolysis as tested in the skeletal muscle tissues, which occurs earlier than the increase in fatty acid utilization during fasting. The enhanced glutaminolysis is also observed in macrophages in low glucose or under acute lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment. Consistent with a requirement of heightened glutaminolysis, the PDZD8-T527A mutation dampens the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophages in mice treated with LPS. Together, we have revealed an AMPK-PDZD8-GLS1 axis that promotes glutaminolysis ahead of increased fatty acid utilization under glucose shortage.
PXD046389	38898275	Direct radical functionalization of native sugars. 	Biomimetic activation enables direct functionalization with native sugars	glycosyl radical-based cross-coupling, native sugars, peptide mapping, protecting-group-free funxtionalization	Naturally occurring (native) sugars and carbohydrates contain numerous hydroxyl groups of similar reactivity(1,2). Chemists, therefore, rely typically on laborious, multi-step protecting-group strategies(3) to convert these renewable feedstocks into reagents (glycosyl donors) to make glycans. The direct transformation of native sugars to complex saccharides remains a notable challenge. Here we describe a photoinduced approach to achieve site- and stereoselective chemical glycosylation from widely available native sugar building blocks, which through homolytic (one-electron) chemistry bypasses unnecessary hydroxyl group masking and manipulation. This process is reminiscent of nature in its regiocontrolled generation of a transient glycosyl donor, followed by radical-based cross-coupling with electrophiles on activation with light. Through selective anomeric functionalization of mono- and oligosaccharides, this protecting-group-free 'cap and glycosylate' approach offers straightforward access to a wide array of metabolically robust glycosyl compounds. Owing to its biocompatibility, the method was extended to the direct post-translational glycosylation of proteins.
PXD049342	38898416	Comparing the Proteomic Profiles of Extracellular Vesicles Isolated using Different Methods from Long-term Stored Plasma Samples. 	Comparison of three methods for isolating human plasma EVs by LC-MSMS	Extracellular vesicles, Plasma	BACKGROUND: The lack of standardized protocols for isolating extracellular vesicles (EVs), especially from biobank-stored blood plasma, translates to limitations for the study of new biomarkers. This study examines whether a combination of current isolation methods could enhance the specificity and purity of isolated EVs for diagnosis and personalized medicine purposes. RESULTS: EVs were isolated from healthy human plasma stored for one year by ultracentrifugation (UC), size exclusion chromatography (SEC), or SEC and UC combined (SEC + UC). The EV isolates were then characterized by transmission electron microscopy imaging, nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) and western blotting. Proteomic procedures were used to analyze protein contents. The presence of EV markers in all isolates was confirmed by western blotting yet this analysis revealed higher albumin expression in EVs-UC, suggesting plasma protein contamination. Proteomic analysis identified 542 proteins, SEC + UC yielding the most complex proteome at 364 proteins. Through gene ontology enrichment, we observed differences in the cellular components of EVs and plasma in that SEC + UC isolates featured higher proportions of EV proteins than those derived from the other two methods. Analysis of proteins unique to each isolation method served to identify 181 unique proteins for the combined approach, including those normally appearing in low concentrations in plasma. This indicates that with this combined method, it is possible to detect less abundant plasma proteins by proteomics in the resultant isolates. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal that the SEC + UC approach yields highly pure and diverse EVs suitable for comprehensive proteomic analysis with applications for the detection of new biomarkers in biobank-stored plasma samples.
PXD048774	38898526	Comparative analysis of retroviral Gag-host cell interactions: focus on the nuclear interactome. 	Comparative analysis of retroviral Gag-host cell interactions in the nucleus	HIV-1, Rous sarcoma virus, retroviruses	Retroviruses exploit host proteins to assemble and release virions from infected cells. Previously, most studies focused on interacting partners of retroviral Gag proteins that localize to the cytoplasm or plasma membrane. Given that several full-length Gag proteins have been found in the nucleus, identifying the Gag-nuclear interactome has high potential for novel findings involving previously unknown host processes. Here we systematically compared nuclear factors identified in published HIV-1 proteomic studies and performed our own mass spectrometry analysis using affinity-tagged HIV-1 and RSV Gag proteins mixed with nuclear extracts. We identified 57 nuclear proteins in common between HIV-1 and RSV Gag, and a set of nuclear proteins present in our analysis and >= 1 of the published HIV-1 datasets. Many proteins were associated with nuclear processes which could have functional consequences for viral replication, including transcription initiation/elongation/termination, RNA processing, splicing, and chromatin remodeling. Examples include facilitating chromatin remodeling to expose the integrated provirus, promoting expression of viral genes, repressing the transcription of antagonistic cellular genes, preventing splicing of viral RNA, altering splicing of cellular RNAs, or influencing viral or host RNA folding or RNA nuclear export. Many proteins in our pulldowns common to RSV and HIV-1 Gag are critical for transcription, including PolR2B, the second largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), and LEO1, a PAF1C complex member that regulates transcriptional elongation, supporting the possibility that Gag influences the host transcription profile to aid the virus. Through the interaction of RSV and HIV-1 Gag with splicing-related proteins CBLL1, HNRNPH3, TRA2B, PTBP1 and U2AF1, we speculate that Gag could enhance unspliced viral RNA production for translation and packaging. To validate one putative hit, we demonstrated an interaction of RSV Gag with Mediator complex member Med26, required for RNA polymerase II-mediated transcription. Although 57 host proteins interacted with both Gag proteins, unique host proteins belonging to each interactome dataset were identified. These results provide a strong premise for future functional studies to investigate roles for these nuclear host factors that may have shared functions in the biology of both retroviruses, as well as functions specific to RSV and HIV-1, given their distinctive hosts and molecular pathology.
PXD042209	38898695	Network analysis reveals age- and virus-specific circuits in nasal epithelial cells of extremely premature infants. 	Network Analysis Reveals Age- and Virus-Specific Circuits in Nasal Epithelial Cells of Extremely Premature Infants	Nasal Epithelial Cells, Premature Infants, virus-specific pathways	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Viral respiratory infections significantly affect young children, particularly extremely premature infants, resulting in high hospitalization rates and increased health-care burdens. Nasal epithelial cells, the primary defense against respiratory infections, are vital for understanding nasal immune responses and serve as a promising target for uncovering underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms. METHODS: Using a trans-well pseudostratified nasal epithelial cell system, we examined age-dependent developmental differences and antiviral responses to influenza A and respiratory syncytial virus through systems biology approaches. RESULTS: Our studies revealed differences in innate-receptor repertoires, distinct developmental pathways, and differentially connected antiviral network circuits between neonatal and adult nasal epithelial cells. Consensus network analysis identified unique and shared cellular-viral networks, emphasizing highly relevant virus-specific pathways, independent of viral replication kinetics. CONCLUSION: This research highlights the importance of nasal epithelial cells in innate antiviral immune responses and offers crucial insights that allow for a deeper understanding of age-related differences in nasal epithelial cell immunity following respiratory virus infections.
PXD043577	38899461	Fibroblast Smad7 Induction Protects the Remodeling Pressure-Overloaded Heart. 	Myofibroblast-specific Smad7 protects the pressure-overloaded heart by restraining collagen deposition and denaturation, and by inhibiting paracrine macrophage activation	fibrosis, heart, smad7, tgf-beta	BACKGROUND: Cardiac fibroblast activation contributes to adverse remodeling, fibrosis, and dysfunction in the pressure-overloaded heart. Although early fibroblast TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta)/Smad (small mother against decapentaplegic)-3 activation protects the pressure-overloaded heart by preserving the matrix, sustained TGF-beta activation is deleterious, accentuating fibrosis and dysfunction. Thus, endogenous mechanisms that negatively regulate the TGF-beta response in fibroblasts may be required to protect from progressive fibrosis and adverse remodeling. We hypothesized that Smad7, an inhibitory Smad that restrains TGF-beta signaling, may be induced in the pressure-overloaded myocardium and may regulate fibrosis, remodeling, and dysfunction. METHODS: The effects of myofibroblast-specific Smad7 loss were studied in a mouse model of transverse aortic constriction, using echocardiography, histological analysis, and molecular analysis. Proteomic studies in S7KO (Smad7 knockout) and overexpressing cells were used to identify fibroblast-derived mediators modulated by Smad7. In vitro experiments using cultured cardiac fibroblasts, fibroblasts populating collagen lattices, and isolated macrophages were used to dissect the molecular signals responsible for the effects of Smad7. RESULTS: Following pressure overload, Smad7 was upregulated in cardiac myofibroblasts. TGF-beta and angiotensin II stimulated fibroblast Smad7 upregulation via Smad3, whereas GDF15 (growth differentiation factor 15) induced Smad7 through GFRAL (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha-like). MFS7KO (myofibroblast-specific S7KO) mice had increased mortality, accentuated systolic dysfunction and dilative remodeling, and accelerated diastolic dysfunction in response to transverse aortic constriction. Increased dysfunction in MFS7KO hearts was associated with accentuated fibrosis and increased MMP (matrix metalloproteinase)-2 activity and collagen denaturation. Secretomic analysis showed that Smad7 loss accentuates secretion of structural collagens and matricellular proteins and markedly increases MMP2 secretion. In contrast, Smad7 overexpression reduced MMP2 levels. In fibroblasts populating collagen lattices, the effects of Smad7 on fibroblast-induced collagen denaturation and pad contraction were partly mediated via MMP2 downregulation. Surprisingly, MFS7KO mice also exhibited significant macrophage expansion caused by paracrine actions of Smad7 null fibroblasts that stimulate macrophage proliferation and fibrogenic activation. Macrophage activation involved the combined effects of the fibroblast-derived matricellular proteins CD5L (CD5 antigen-like), SPARC (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine), CTGF (connective tissue growth factor), ECM1 (extracellular matrix protein 1), and TGFBI (TGFB induced). CONCLUSIONS: The antifibrotic effects of Smad7 in the pressure-overloaded heart protect from dysfunction and involve not only reduction in collagen deposition but also suppression of MMP2-mediated matrix denaturation and paracrine effects that suppress macrophage activation through inhibition of matricellular proteins.
PXD038014	38900131	Multi-omics analysis of diabetic pig lungs reveals molecular derangements underlying pulmonary complications of diabetes mellitus. 	Multi-omics profiling of lung samples from genetically diabetic pigs reveals reduced ALOX15 expression and impaired eicosanoid switching as mechanisms contributing to a proinflammatory milieu	Diabetes, biobank, insulin deficiency, lipidome, lipoxygenase, lung, pig model	Growing evidence shows that the lung is an organ prone to injury by diabetes mellitus. However, the molecular mechanisms of these pulmonary complications have not yet been characterized comprehensively. To systematically study the effects of insulin deficiency and hyperglycaemia on the lung, we combined proteomics and lipidomics with quantitative histomorphological analyses to compare lung tissue samples from a clinically relevant pig model for mutant INS gene induced diabetes of youth (MIDY) with samples from wild-type (WT) littermate controls. Among others, the level of pulmonary surfactant-associated protein A (SFTPA1), a biomarker of lung injury, was moderately elevated. Furthermore, key proteins related to humoral immune response and extracellular matrix (ECM) organization were significantly altered in abundance. Importantly, a lipoxygenase pathway was dysregulated as indicated by a 2.5-fold reduction of polyunsaturated fatty acid lipoxygenase ALOX15 levels, associated with corresponding changes in the levels of lipids influenced by this enzyme. Our multi-omics study points to an involvement of reduced ALOX15 levels and an associated lack of eicosanoid switching as mechanisms contributing to a proinflammatory milieu in the lungs of subjects suffering from diabetes mellitus.
PXD051190	38900146	Multimodal HLA-I genotype regulation by human cytomegalovirus US10 and resulting surface patterning. 	Multimodal HLA-I genotype regulation by human cytomegalovirus US10 and resulting surface patterning	Antigen presentation, Human cytomegalovirus, Immune evasion	Human leucocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules play a central role for both NK and T-cell responses that prevent serious human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) disease. To create opportunities for viral spread, several HCMV-encoded immunoevasins employ diverse strategies to target HLA-I. Among these, the glycoprotein US10 is so far insufficiently studied. While it was reported that US10 interferes with HLA-G expression, its ability to manipulate classical HLA-I antigen presentation remains unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that US10 recognizes and binds to all HLA-I (HLA-A, -B, -C, -E, -G) heavy chains. Additionally, impaired recruitment of HLA-I to the peptide loading complex was observed. Notably, the associated effects varied significantly dependending on HLA-I genotype and allotype: (i) HLA-A molecules evaded downregulation by US10, (ii) tapasin-dependent HLA-B molecules showed impaired maturation and cell surface expression, and (iii) beta2m-assembled HLA-C, in particular HLA-C*05:01 and -C*12:03, and HLA-G were strongly retained in complex with US10 in the endoplasmic reticulum. These genotype-specific effects on HLA-I were confirmed through unbiased HLA-I ligandome analyses. Furthermore, in HCMV-infected fibroblasts inhibition of overlapping US10 and US11 transcription had little effect on HLA-A, but induced HLA-B antigen presentation. Thus, the US10-mediated impact on HLA-I results in multiple geno- and allotypic effects in a so far unparalleled and multimodal manner.
PXD031010	38900587	Sanglifehrin A mitigates multi-organ fibrosis by targeting the collagen chaperone cyclophilin B. 	Secretomics of Jurkat cells treated with sanglifehrin A or cyclosporin A	natural products, secretomics	Pathological deposition and crosslinking of collagen type I by activated myofibroblasts drives progressive tissue fibrosis. Therapies that inhibit collagen synthesis have potential as anti-fibrotic agents. We identify the collagen chaperone cyclophilin B as a major cellular target of the natural product sanglifehrin A (SfA) using photo-affinity labeling and chemical proteomics. Mechanistically, SfA inhibits and induces the secretion of cyclophilin B from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and prevents TGF-beta1-activated myofibroblasts from synthesizing and secreting collagen type I in vitro, without inducing ER stress, affecting collagen type I mRNA transcription, myofibroblast migration, contractility, or TGF-beta1 signaling. In vivo, SfA induced cyclophilin B secretion in preclinical models of fibrosis, thereby inhibiting collagen synthesis from fibrotic fibroblasts and mitigating the development of lung and skin fibrosis in mice. Ex vivo, SfA induces cyclophilin B secretion and inhibits collagen type I secretion from fibrotic human lung fibroblasts and samples from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Taken together, we provide chemical, molecular, functional, and translational evidence for demonstrating direct anti-fibrotic activities of SfA in preclinical and human ex vivo fibrotic models. Our results identify the cellular target of SfA, the collagen chaperone cyclophilin B, as a mechanistic target for the treatment of organ fibrosis.
PXD043431	38901800	Comparative proteomics of sugarcane smut fungus - Sporisorium scitamineum unravels dynamic proteomic alterations during the dimorphic transition. 	Comparative proteomics of sugarcane smut fungus - Sporisorium scitamineum unravels dynamic proteomic alterations during the dimorphic transition	Dikaryotic, Dimorphism, Fungi, Pathogenesis, Virulence, iTRAQ	Life cycle of the dimorphic sugarcane smut fungi, Sporisorium scitamineum, involves recognition and mating of compatible saprophytic yeast-like haploid sporidia (MAT-1 and MAT-2) that upon fusion, develop into infective dikaryotic mycelia. Although the dimorphic transition is intrinsically linked with the pathogenicity and virulence of S. scitamineum, it has never been studied using a proteomic approach. In the present study, an iTRAQ-based comparative proteomic analysis of three distinct stages was carried out. The stages were: the dimorphic transition period - haploid sporidial stage (MAT-1 and MAT-2); the transition phase (24 h post co-culturing (hpc)) and the dikaryotic mycelial stage (48 hpc). Functional categorization of differentially abundant proteins showed that the most altered biological processes were energy production, primary metabolism, especially, carbohydrate, amino acid, fatty acid, followed by translation, post-translation and protein turnover. Several differentially abundant proteins (DAPs), especially in the dikaryotic mycelial stage were predicted as effectors. Taken together, key molecular mechanisms underpinning the dimorphic transition in S. scitamineum at the proteome level were highlighted. The catalogue of stage-specific and dimorphic transition-associated-proteins and potential effectors identified herein represents a list of potential candidates for defective mutant screening to elucidate their functional role in the dimorphic transition and pathogenicity in S. scitamineum. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Being the first comparative proteomics analysis of S. scitamineum, this study comprehensively examined three pivotal life cycle stages of the pathogen: the non-pathogenic haploid phase, the transition phase, and the pathogenic dikaryotic mycelial stage. While previous studies have reported the sugarcane and S. scitamineum interactions, this study endeavored to specifically identify the proteins responsible for pathogenicity. By analyzing the proteomic alterations between the haploid and dikaryotic mycelial phases, the study revealed significant changes in metabolic pathway-associated proteins linked to energy production, notably oxidative phosphorylation, and the citrate cycle. Furthermore, this study successfully identified key metabolic pathways that undergo reprogramming during the transition from the non-pathogenic to the pathogenic stage. The study also deciphered the underlying mechanisms driving the morphological and physiological alterations crucial for the S. scitamineum virulence. By studying its life cycle stages, identifying the key metabolic pathways and stage-specific proteins, it provides unprecedented insights into the pathogenicity and potential avenues for intervention. As proteomics continues to advance, such studies pave the way for a deeper understanding of plant-pathogen interactions and the development of innovative strategies to mitigate the impact of devastating pathogens like S. scitamineum.
PXD041798	38902251	Proteomic analysis reveals dynamic changes in cloacal fluid composition during the reproductive season in a sexually promiscuous passerine. 	Proteomic analysis of female cloacal fluid during the reproductive cycle in the barn swallow (Hirundo rustica)	Cloacal fluids, Hirundo rustica	Cryptic female choice (CFC) is a component of postcopulatory sexual selection that allows females to influence the fertilization success of sperm from different males. While its precise mechanisms remain unclear, they may involve the influence of the protein composition of the female reproductive fluids on sperm functionality. This study maps the protein composition of the cloacal fluid across different phases of female reproductive cycle in a sexually promiscuous passerine, the barn swallow. Similar to mammals, the protein composition in the female reproductive tract differed between receptive (when females copulate) and nonreceptive phases. With the change in the protein background, the enriched gene ontology terms also shifted. Within the receptive phase, distinctions were observed between proteomes sampled just before and during egg laying. However, three proteins exhibited increased abundance during the entire receptive phase compared to nonreceptive phases. These proteins are candidates in cryptic female choice, as all of them can influence the functionality of sperm or sperm-egg interaction. Our study demonstrates dynamic changes in the cloacal environment throughout the avian breeding cycle, emphasizing the importance of considering these fluctuations in studies of cryptic female choice.
PXD050425	38902643	Frontiers in plasma proteome profiling platforms: innovations and applications. 	Frontiers in Plasma Proteome Profiling Platforms: Innovations and Applications.	Biofluids proteome profiling, Biomarker, Plasma proteome, PreOmics-iST, SP100 Instrument, Secretome, Seer Proteograph, timstofPro2	Biomarkers play a crucial role in advancing precision medicine by enabling more targeted and individualized approaches to diagnosis and treatment. Various biofluids, including serum, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), saliva, tears, pancreatic cyst fluids, and urine, have been identified as rich sources of potential for the early detection of disease biomarkers in conditions such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and neurodegenerative disorders. The analysis of plasma and serum in proteomics research encounters challenges due to their high complexity and the wide dynamic range of protein abundance. These factors impede the sensitivity, coverage, and precision of protein detection when employing mass spectrometry, a widely utilized technology in discovery proteomics. Conventional approaches such as Neat Plasma workflow are inefficient in accurately quantifying low-abundant proteins, including those associated with tissue leakage, immune response molecules, interleukins, cytokines, and interferons. Moreover, the manual nature of the workflow poses a significant hurdle in conducting large cohort studies. In this study, our focus is on comparing workflows for plasma proteomic profiling to establish a methodology that is not only sensitive and reproducible but also applicable for large cohort studies in biomarker discovery. Our investigation revealed that the Proteograph XT workflow outperforms other workflows in terms of plasma proteome depth, quantitative accuracy, and reproducibility while offering complete automation of sample preparation. Notably, Proteograph XT demonstrates versatility by applying it to various types of biofluids. Additionally, the proteins quantified widely cover secretory proteins in peripheral blood, and the pathway analysis enriched with relevant components such as interleukins, tissue necrosis factors, chemokines, and B and T cell receptors provides valuable insights. These proteins, often challenging to quantify in complex biological samples, hold potential as early detection markers for various diseases, thereby contributing to the improvement of patient care quality.
PXD036634	38902824	UBQLN1 links proteostasis and mitochondria function to telomere maintenance in human embryonic stem cells. 	To functionally investigate the manner that UBQLN1 regulate mitochondria function,we searched for the UBQLN1-interacting proteins,we first conducted LC-MS with 3Flag-UBQLN1 cell line	hESCs LC-MS	BACKGROUND: Telomeres consist of repetitive DNA sequences at the chromosome ends to protect chromosomal stability, and primarily maintained by telomerase or occasionally by alternative telomere lengthening of telomeres (ALT) through recombination-based mechanisms. Additional mechanisms that may regulate telomere maintenance remain to be explored. Simultaneous measurement of telomere length and transcriptome in the same human embryonic stem cell (hESC) revealed that mRNA expression levels of UBQLN1 exhibit linear relationship with telomere length. METHODS: In this study, we first generated UBQLN1-deficient hESCs and compared with the wild-type (WT) hESCs the telomere length and molecular change at RNA and protein level by RNA-seq and proteomics. Then we identified the potential interacting proteins with UBQLN1 using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS). Furthermore, the potential mechanisms underlying the shortened telomeres in UBQLN1-deficient hESCs were analyzed. RESULTS: We show that Ubiquilin1 (UBQLN1) is critical for telomere maintenance in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) via promoting mitochondrial function. UBQLN1 deficiency leads to oxidative stress, loss of proteostasis, mitochondria dysfunction, DNA damage, and telomere attrition. Reducing oxidative damage and promoting mitochondria function by culture under hypoxia condition or supplementation with N-acetylcysteine partly attenuate the telomere attrition induced by UBQLN1 deficiency. Moreover, UBQLN1 deficiency/telomere shortening downregulates genes for neuro-ectoderm lineage differentiation. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, UBQLN1 functions to scavenge ubiquitinated proteins, preventing their overloading mitochondria and elevated mitophagy. UBQLN1 maintains mitochondria and telomeres by regulating proteostasis and plays critical role in neuro-ectoderm differentiation.
PXD039358	38903882	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis reveals the effect of ribosomal proteins on essential-oil accumulation in Houttuynia cordata Thunb. 	Proteome profiling of Houttuynia cordata Thunb	Houttuynia cordata Thunb, Proteome profiling	Houttuynia cordata Thunb., also known as Yuxingcao in Chinese, occupies a pivotal role in Asian traditional medicine and cuisine. The aerial parts and underground stems of H. cordata exhibit remarkable chemical diversity, particularly in essential oil. Nevertheless, the mechanisms regulating essential oil biosynthesis in H. cordata remain unclear. In this study, we present a quantitative overview of the proteomes across four tissues (flower, stem, leaf, and underground stem) of H. cordata, achieved through the application of the isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ). Our research findings indicate that certain crucial ribosomal proteins and their interactions may significantly impact the production of essential oils in H. cordata. These results offer novel insights into the roles of ribosomal proteins and their associations in essential oil biosynthesis across various organisms of H. cordata.
PXD052456	38904003	Blood-supplementing effect of low molecular weight peptides of E-Jiao on chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression: evaluation of pharmacological activity and identification of bioactive peptides released in vivo. 	Identification of peptides from E-Jiao	E-Jiao, Q Exactive Orbitrap Plus, donkey hide gelatin	Background: Equus asinus L. [Equidae; Asini Corri Colla] (donkey-hide gelatin, E-Jiao) is a traditional Chinese medicine renowned for its exceptional blood-supplementing effect. However, the specific components that contribute to its efficacy remain elusive. This study aimed to demonstrate that peptides are responsible for E-Jiao's blood-supplementing effect and to explore the specific peptides contributing to its efficacy. Methods: The low molecular weight peptides of E-Jiao (LMEJ) were obtained using an in vitro digestion method. LMEJ and peptides in the rat bloodstream were characterized by peptidomics analysis. The blood-supplementing effect of LMEJ was assessed using blood-deficient zebrafish and mouse models. The effect of the peptides detected in rat blood was evaluated using the same zebrafish model, and network pharmacology analysis was performed to investigate the underlying mechanisms. Results: A total of 660 unique peptides were identified within LMEJ. Both E-Jiao and LMEJ significantly alleviated myelosuppression in mice but only LMEJ attenuated myelosuppression in zebrafish. After the administration of E-Jiao to rats, 67 E-Jiao-derived peptides were detected in the bloodstream, 41 of which were identical to those identified in LMEJ. Out of these 41 peptides, five were synthesized. Subsequent verification of their effects revealed that two of them were able to alleviate myelosuppression in zebrafish. Network pharmacology study suggested that E-Jiao may exert a blood-supplementing effect by regulating signaling pathways such as JAK-STAT, IL-17 and others. These results indicated that peptides are at least partially responsible for E-Jiao's efficacy. Conclusion: This study provides a crucial foundation for further exploration of the bioactive components of E-Jiao.
PXD047241	38904009	CPEB1 Controls NRF2 Proteostasis and Ferroptosis Susceptibility in Pancreatic Cancer. 	Proteomic analysis of JF-305 derivative CPEB1 knockdown/overexpression cells	CPEB1, Pancreatic cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	Pancreatic cancer is the deadliest malignancy with a poor response to chemotherapy but is potentially indicated for ferroptosis therapy. Here we identified that cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein 1 (CPEB1) regulates NRF2 proteostasis and susceptibility to ferroptosis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). We found that CPEB1 deficiency in cancer cells promotes the translation of p62/SQSTM1 by facilitating mRNA polyadenylation. Consequently, upregulated p62 enhances NRF2 stability by sequestering KEAP1, an E3 ligase for proteasomal degradation of NRF2, leading to the transcriptional activation of anti-ferroptosis genes. In support of the critical role of this signaling cascade in cancer therapy, CPEB1-deficient pancreatic cancer cells display higher resistance to ferroptosis-inducing agents than their CPEB1-normal counterparts in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, based on the pathological evaluation of tissue specimens from 90 PDAC patients, we established that CPEB1 is an independent prognosticator whose expression level is closely associated with clinical therapeutic outcomes in PDAC. These findings identify the role of CPEB1 as a key ferroptosis regulator and a potential prognosticator in pancreatic cancer.
PXD050839	38904028	Myeloid cell-expressed MNDA enhances M2 polarization to facilitate the metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Myeloid cell-expressed MNDA enhances M2 polarization to facilitate the metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma	HCC, M2 polarization, MNDA, exosome, metastasis	Stable infiltration of myeloid cells, especially tumor-associated M2 macrophages, acts as one of the essential features of the tumor immune microenvironment by promoting the malignant progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the factors affecting the infiltration of M2 macrophages are not fully understood. In this study, we found the molecular subtypes of HCC with the worst prognosis are characterized by immune disorders dominated by myeloid cell infiltration. Myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen (MNDA) was significantly elevated in the most aggressive subtype and exhibited a positively correlation with M2 infiltration and HCC metastasis. Moreover, MNDA functioned as an independent prognostic predictor and has a good synergistic effect with some existing prognostic clinical indicators. We further confirmed that MNDA was primarily expressed in tumor M2 macrophages and contributed to the enhancement of its polarization by upregulating the expression of the M2 polarization enhancers. Furthermore, MNDA could drive the secretion of M2 macrophage-derived pro-metastasis proteins to accelerate HCC cells metastasis both in vivo and in vitro. In summary, MNDA exerts a protumor role by promoting M2 macrophages polarization and HCC metastasis, and can serve as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC.
PXD050701	38906115	2'-O-methylation at internal sites on mRNA promotes mRNA stability. 	Proteomic of control and FBL knockdown C4-2 cells	2-O methylation, FBL, protein	2'-O-methylation (Nm) is a prominent RNA modification well known in noncoding RNAs and more recently also found at many mRNA internal sites. However, their function and base-resolution stoichiometry remain underexplored. Here, we investigate the transcriptome-wide effect of internal site Nm on mRNA stability. Combining nanopore sequencing with our developed machine learning method, NanoNm, we identify thousands of Nm sites on mRNAs with a single-base resolution. We observe a positive effect of FBL-mediated Nm modification on mRNA stability and expression level. Elevated FBL expression in cancer cells is associated with increased expression levels for 2'-O-methylated mRNAs of cancer pathways, implying the role of FBL in post-transcriptional regulation. Lastly, we find that FBL-mediated 2'-O-methylation connects to widespread 3' UTR shortening, a mechanism that globally increases RNA stability. Collectively, we demonstrate that FBL-mediated Nm modifications at mRNA internal sites regulate gene expression by enhancing mRNA stability.
PXD041374	38906142	Basis of gene-specific transcription regulation by the Integrator complex. 	TAP-MS of human Integrator subunits INTS10 and INTS13	Integrator, TAP-MS	The Integrator complex attenuates gene expression via the premature termination of RNA polymerase II (RNAP2) at promoter-proximal pausing sites. It is required for stimulus response, cell differentiation, and neurodevelopment, but how gene-specific and adaptive regulation by Integrator is achieved remains unclear. Here, we identify two sites on human Integrator subunits 13/14 that serve as binding hubs for sequence-specific transcription factors (TFs) and other transcription effector complexes. When Integrator is attached to paused RNAP2, these hubs are positioned upstream of the transcription bubble, consistent with simultaneous TF-promoter tethering. The TFs co-localize with Integrator genome-wide, increase Integrator abundance on target genes, and co-regulate responsive transcriptional programs. For instance, sensory cilia formation induced by glucose starvation depends on Integrator-TF contacts. Our data suggest TF-mediated promoter recruitment of Integrator as a widespread mechanism for targeted transcription regulation.
PXD040594	38906247	Shotgun proteomics of detergent-solubilized proteins from Trypanosoma evansi. 	Shotgun proteomics of detergent-solubilized membrane proteins from Trypanosoma evansi	Surface proteins, Triton-X114	Trypanosoma evansi, the causative agent of surra, is the most prevalent pathogenic salivarian trypanosome and affects the majority of domesticated and wild animals in endemic regions. This work aimed to analyze detergent-solubilized T. evansi proteins and identify potential diagnostic biomarkers for surra. Triton X-114-extracted membrane-enriched proteins (MEP) of T. evansi bloodstream forms were analyzed using a gel-free technique (LC-ESI-MS/MS). 247 proteins were identified following the MS analysis of three biological and technical replicates. Two of these proteins were predicted to have a GPI-anchor, 100 (40%) were predicted to have transmembrane domains, and 166 (67%) were predicted to be membrane-bound based on at least one of six features: location (WolfPSORT, DeepLoc-2.0, Protcomp-9.0), transmembrane, GPI, and gene ontology. It was predicted that 76 (30%) of proteins had membrane evidence. Typical membrane proteins for each organelle were identified, among them ISG families (64, 65, and 75 kDa), flagellar calcium-binding protein, 24 kDa calflagin, syntaxins and oligosaccharyltransferase some of which had previously been studied in other trypanosomatids. T. evansi lacks singletons and exclusive orthologous groups, whereas three distinct epitopes have been identified. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD040594. SIGNIFICANCE: Trypanosoma evansi is a highly prevalent parasite that induces a pathological condition known as "surra" in various species of ungulates across five continents. The infection gives rise to symptoms that are not pathognomonic, thereby posing challenges in its diagnosis and leading to substantial economic losses in the livestock industry. A significant challenge arises from the absence of a diagnostic test capable of distinguishing between Trypanosoma equiperdum and T. evansi, both of which are implicated in equine diseases. Therefore, there is a pressing need to conduct research on the biochemistry of the parasite in order to identify proteins that could potentially serve as targets for differential diagnosis or therapeutic interventions.
PXD049194	38906315	Identification of proteins involved in intracellular ubiquinone trafficking in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using artificial ubiquinone probe. 	Identification of the proteins involved in the uptake of coenzyme Q  	S. cerevisiae, coenzyme Q	Ubiquinone (UQ) is an essential player in the respiratory electron transfer system. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains lacking the ability to synthesize UQ6, exogenously supplied UQs can be taken up and delivered to mitochondria through an unknown mechanism, restoring the growth of UQ6-deficient yeast in non-fermentable medium. Since elucidating the mechanism responsible may markedly contribute to therapeutic strategies for patients with UQ deficiency, many attempts have been made to identify the machinery involved in UQ trafficking in the yeast model. However, definite experimental evidence of the direct interaction of UQ with a specific protein(s) has not yet been demonstrated. To gain insight into intracellular UQ trafficking via a chemistry-based strategy, we synthesized a hydrophobic UQ probe (pUQ5), which has a photoreactive diazirine group attached to a five-unit isoprenyl chain and a terminal alkyne to visualize and/or capture the labeled proteins via click chemistry. pUQ5 successfully restored the growth of UQ6-deficient S. cerevisiae (Deltacoq2) on a non-fermentable carbon source, indicating that this UQ was taken up and delivered to mitochondria, and served as a UQ substrate of respiratory enzymes. Through photoaffinity labeling of the mitochondria isolated from Deltacoq2 yeast cells cultured in the presence of pUQ5, we identified many labeled proteins, including voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) and cytochrome c oxidase subunit 3 (Cox3). The physiological relevance of UQ binding to these proteins is discussed.
PXD046078	38906865	RPLP1 restricts HIV-1 transcription by disrupting C/EBPbeta binding to the LTR. 	Different expressed proteins of HIV-infected long-term non-progressors (LTNPs) and regular progressors (RPs)	HIV, LTNPs	Long-term non-progressors (LTNPs) of HIV-1 infection may provide important insights into mechanisms involved in viral control and pathogenesis. Here, our results suggest that the ribosomal protein lateral stalk subunit P1 (RPLP1) is expressed at higher levels in LTNPs compared to regular progressors (RPs). Functionally, RPLP1 inhibits transcription of clade B HIV-1 strains by occupying the C/EBPbeta binding sites in the viral long terminal repeat (LTR). This interaction requires the alpha-helixes 2 and 4 domains of RPLP1 and is evaded by HIV-1 group M subtype C and group N, O and P strains that do not require C/EBPbeta for transcription. We further demonstrate that HIV-1-induced translocation of RPLP1 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is essential for antiviral activity. Finally, knock-down of RPLP1 promotes reactivation of latent HIV-1 proviruses. Thus, RPLP1 may play a role in the maintenance of HIV-1 latency and resistance to RPLP1 restriction may contribute to the effective spread of clade C HIV-1 strains.
PXD040694	38907113	Orpinolide disrupts a leukemic dependency on cholesterol transport by inhibiting OSBP. 	Withanolide analogues disrupt a leukemic dependency on cholesterol transport by inhibiting the oxysterol-binding protein OSBP (Expression proteomics)	expression proteomics, natural product-inspired compound libraries, thermal proteome profiling, withanolides	Metabolic alterations in cancer precipitate in associated dependencies that can be therapeutically exploited. To meet this goal, natural product-inspired small molecules can provide a resource of invaluable chemotypes. Here, we identify orpinolide, a synthetic withanolide analog with pronounced antileukemic properties, via orthogonal chemical screening. Through multiomics profiling and genome-scale CRISPR-Cas9 screens, we identify that orpinolide disrupts Golgi homeostasis via a mechanism that requires active phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate signaling at the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi membrane interface. Thermal proteome profiling and genetic validation studies reveal the oxysterol-binding protein OSBP as the direct and phenotypically relevant target of orpinolide. Collectively, these data reaffirm sterol transport as a therapeutically actionable dependency in leukemia and motivate ensuing translational investigation via the probe-like compound orpinolide.
PXD045670	38908344	Characterization of the zebrafish gabra1(sa43718/sa43718) germline loss of function allele confirms a function for Gabra1 in motility and nervous system development. 	Zebrafish gabra1 sa43718 allele proteomics	gabra1, sa43718 allele, zebrafish	Mutation of the GABRA1 gene is associated with neurodevelopmental defects and epilepsy. GABRA1 encodes for the alpha1 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (GABAAR), which regulates the fast inhibitory impulses of the nervous system. Multiple model systems have been developed to understand the function of GABRA1, but these models have produced complex and, at times, incongruent data. Thus, additional model systems are required to validate and substantiate previous results. We sought to provide initial phenotypic analysis of a novel germline mutant allele. Our analysis provides a solid foundation for the future use of this allele to characterize gabra1 functionally and pharmacologically using zebrafish. We investigated the behavioral swim patterns associated with a nonsense mutation of the zebrafish gabra1 (sa43718 allele) gene. The sa43718 allele causes a decrease in gabra1 mRNA expression, which is associated with light induced hypermotility, one phenotype previously associated with seizure like behavior in zebrafish. Mutation of gabra1 was accompanied by decreased mRNA expression of gabra2, gabra3, and gabra5, indicating a reduction in the expression of additional alpha sub-units of the GABAAR. Although multiple sub-units were decreased, larvae continued to respond to pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), indicating that a residual GABAAR exists in the sa43718 allele. Proteomics analysis demonstrated that mutation of gabra1 is associated with abnormal expression of proteins that regulate synaptic vesicle fusion, vesicle transport, synapse development, and mitochondrial protein complexes. These data support previous studies performed in a zebrafish nonsense allele created by CRISPR/Cas9 and validate that loss of function mutations in the gabra1 gene result in seizure-like phenotypes with abnormal development of the GABA synapse. Our results add to the existing body of knowledge as to the function of GABRA1 during development and validate that zebrafish can be used to provide complete functional characterization of the gene.
PXD044560	38908380	Primitive macrophages enable long-term vascularization of human heart-on-a-chip platforms. 	LC-MS/MS of conditioned media from vascularized cardiac tissue with and without primitive macrophages	cardiomyocyte, conditioned media, myocardium, pluripotent stem cell, resident macrophage, vascularization	The intricate anatomical structure and high cellular density of the myocardium complicate the bioengineering of perfusable vascular networks within cardiac tissues. In vivo neonatal studies highlight the key role of resident cardiac macrophages in post-injury regeneration and angiogenesis. Here, we integrate human pluripotent stem-cell-derived primitive yolk-sac-like macrophages within vascularized heart-on-chip platforms. Macrophage incorporation profoundly impacted the functionality and perfusability of microvascularized cardiac tissues up to 2 weeks of culture. Macrophages mitigated tissue cytotoxicity and the release of cell-free mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), while upregulating the secretion of pro-angiogenic, matrix remodeling, and cardioprotective cytokines. Bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) revealed an upregulation of cardiac maturation and angiogenesis genes. Further, single-nuclei RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) and secretome data suggest that macrophages may prime stromal cells for vascular development by inducing insulin like growth factor binding protein 7 (IGFBP7) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) expression. Our results underscore the vital role of primitive macrophages in the long-term vascularization of cardiac tissues, offering insights for therapy and advancing heart-on-a-chip technologies.
PXD022137	38908793	Autophagic signaling promotes systems-wide remodeling in skeletal muscle upon oncometabolic stress by D2-HG. 	Oncometabolism Drives Autophagy Activation in Skeletal Muscle	Autophagy, Cachexia, Cancer, D2-HG, Skeletal Muscle	OBJECTIVES: Cachexia is a metabolic disorder and comorbidity with cancer and heart failure. The syndrome impacts more than thirty million people worldwide, accounting for 20% of all cancer deaths. In acute myeloid leukemia, somatic mutations of the metabolic enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 cause the production of the oncometabolite D2-hydroxyglutarate (D2-HG). Increased production of D2-HG is associated with heart and skeletal muscle atrophy, but the mechanistic links between metabolic and proteomic remodeling remain poorly understood. Therefore, we assessed how oncometabolic stress by D2-HG activates autophagy and drives skeletal muscle loss. METHODS: We quantified genomic, metabolomic, and proteomic changes in cultured skeletal muscle cells and mouse models of IDH-mutant leukemia using RNA sequencing, mass spectrometry, and computational modeling. RESULTS: D2-HG impairs NADH redox homeostasis in myotubes. Increased NAD+ levels drive activation of nuclear deacetylase Sirt1, which causes deacetylation and activation of LC3, a key regulator of autophagy. Using LC3 mutants, we confirm that deacetylation of LC3 by Sirt1 shifts its distribution from the nucleus into the cytosol, where it can undergo lipidation at pre-autophagic membranes. Sirt1 silencing or p300 overexpression attenuated autophagy activation in myotubes. In vivo, we identified increased muscle atrophy and reduced grip strength in response to D2-HG in male vs. female mice. In male mice, glycolytic intermediates accumulated, and protein expression of oxidative phosphorylation machinery was reduced. In contrast, female animals upregulated the same proteins, attenuating the phenotype in vivo. Network modeling and machine learning algorithms allowed us to identify candidate proteins essential for regulating oncometabolic adaptation in mouse skeletal muscle. CONCLUSIONS: Our multi-omics approach exposes new metabolic vulnerabilities in response to D2-HG in skeletal muscle and provides a conceptual framework for identifying therapeutic targets in cachexia.
PXD048540	38909885	WWP2 deletion aggravates acute kidney injury by targeting CDC20/autophagy axis. 	Ubiquitylation-omics analysis on WWP2 overexpressed mouse tubular epithelial cells (MPTCs)	Ubiquitylation-omics, renal tubular epithelial cells	INTRODUCTION: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. The molecular mechanisms underlying AKI are currently being extensively investigated. WWP2 is an E3 ligase that regulates cell proliferation and differentiation. Whether WWP2 plays a regulatory role in AKI remains to be elucidated. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to investigate the implication of WWP2 in AKI and its underlying mechanism in the present study. METHODS: We utilized renal tissues from patients with AKI and established AKI models in global or tubule-specific knockout (cKO) mice strains to study WWP2's implication in AKI. We also systemically analyzed ubiquitylation omics and proteomics to decipher the underlying mechanism. RESULTS: In the present study, we found that WWP2 expression significantly increased in the tubules of kidneys with AKI. Global or tubule-specific knockout of WWP2 significantly aggravated renal dysfunction and tubular injury in AKI kidneys, whereas WWP2 overexpression significantly protected tubular epithelial cells against cisplatin. WWP2 deficiency profoundly affected autophagy in AKI kidneys. Further analysis with ubiquitylation omics, quantitative proteomics and experimental validation suggested that WWP2 mediated poly-ubiquitylation of CDC20, a negative regulator of autophagy. CDC20 was significantly decreased in AKI kidneys, and selective inhibiting CDC20 with apcin profoundly alleviated renal dysfunction and tubular injury in the cisplatin model with or without WWP2 cKO, indicating that CDC20 may serve as a downstream target of WWP2 in AKI. Inhibiting autophagy with 3-methyladenine blocked apcin's protection against cisplatin-induced renal tubular cell injury. Activating autophagy by rapamycin significantly protected against cisplatin-induced AKI in WWP2 cKO mice, whereas inhibiting autophagy by 3-methyladenine further aggravated apoptosis in cisplatin-exposed WWP2 KO cells. CONCLUSION: Taken together, our data indicated that the WWP2/CDC20/autophagy may be an essential intrinsic protective mechanism against AKI. Further activating WWP2 or inhibiting CDC20 may be novel therapeutic strategies for AKI.
PXD051046	38911067	Integrin alphaM promotes macrophage alternative M2 polarization in hyperuricemia-related chronic kidney disease. 	Integrin and hyperuricemia-related kidney fibrosis	hyperuricemia, integrin, kidney fibrosis	Hyperuricemia is an essential risk factor in chronic kidney disease (CKD), while urate-lowering therapy to prevent or delay CKD is controversial. Alternatively activated macrophages in response to local microenvironment play diverse roles in kidney diseases. Here, we aim to investigate whether and how macrophage integrin alphaM (ITGAM) contributes to hyperuricemia-related CKD. In vivo, we explored dynamic characteristics of renal tissue in hyperuricemia-related CKD mice. By incorporating transcriptomics and phosphoproteomics data, we analyzed gene expression profile, hub genes and potential pathways. In vitro, we validated bioinformatic findings under different conditions with interventions corresponding to core nodes. We found that hyperuricemia-related CKD was characterized by elevated serum uric acid levels, impaired renal function, activation of macrophage alternative (M2) polarization, and kidney fibrosis. Integrated bioinformatic analyses revealed Itgam as the potential core gene, which was associated with focal adhesion signaling. Notably, we confirmed the upregulated expression of macrophage ITGAM, activated pathway, and macrophage M2 polarization in injured kidneys. In vitro, through silencing Itgam, inhibiting p-FAK or p-AKT1 phosphorylation, and concurrent inhibiting of p-FAK while activating p-AKT1 all contributed to the modulation of macrophage M2 polarization. Our results indicated targeting macrophage ITGAM might be a promising therapeutic approach for preventing CKD.
PXD049199	38911600	Proteomics and lipidomic analysis reveal dysregulated pathways associated with loss of sacsin. 	Proteomics and lipidomics analysis reveal lipid and calcium signalling as dysregulated pathways associated to sacsin loss	ARSACS, Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay	Introduction: Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is a rare incurable neurodegenerative disease caused by mutations in the SACS gene, which codes for sacsin, a large protein involved in protein homeostasis, mitochondrial function, cytoskeletal dynamics, autophagy, cell adhesion and vesicle trafficking. However, the pathogenic mechanisms underlying sacsin dysfunction are still largely uncharacterized, and so attempts to develop therapies are still in the early stages. Methods: To achieve further understanding of how processes are altered by loss of sacsin, we used untargeted proteomics to compare protein profiles in ARSACS fibroblasts versus controls. Results: Our analyses confirmed the involvement of known biological pathways and also implicated calcium and lipid homeostasis in ARSACS skin fibroblasts, a finding further verified in SH-SY5Y SACS (-/-) cells. Validation through mass spectrometry-based analysis and comparative quantification of lipids by LC-MS in fibroblasts revealed increased levels of ceramides coupled with a reduction of diacylglycerols. Discussion: In addition to confirming aberrant Ca(2+) homeostasis in ARSACS, this study described abnormal lipid levels associated with loss of sacsin.
PXD049421	38913153	Multi-layered metabolic effects of trehalose on the liver proteome in apoE-knockout mice model of liver steatosis. 	ApoE-knockout mice liver on high fat diet treated with trehalose or agmatine.	SWATH, liver, trehalowe	BACKGROUND: Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease has been well documented as a key independent risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis. A growing body of evidence suggests that due to its numerous favorable molecular effects, trehalose may exert beneficial effects in counteracting liver steatosis. In our previous study, we described the antiatherosclerotic and antisteatotic properties of trehalose, which we attributed to the induction of autophagy. Considering the pleiotropic activities of trehalose, our present study aimed to extend our preliminary results with the comprehensive examination of proteome-wide changes in the livers of high-fat-fed apoE-/- mice. METHODS: Thus, we applied modern, next-generation proteomic methodology to comprehensively analyze the effects of trehalose on the alterations of liver proteins in apoE-/- mice. RESULTS: Our proteomic analysis showed that the administration of trehalose elicited profound changes in the liver proteome of apoE-/- mice. The collected data allowed the identification and quantitation of 3 681 protein groups of which 129 were significantly regulated in the livers of trehalose-treated apoE-/- mice. CONCLUSIONS: The presented results are the first to highlight the effects of disaccharide on the induction of proteins mainly related to the metabolism and elimination of lipids, especially by peroxisomal beta-oxidation. Our study provides evidence for the pleiotropic activity of trehalose, extending our initial observations of its potential mechanisms responsible for mitigating of liver steatosis, which paves the way for new pharmacological strategies in fatty liver disease.
PXD049333	38914602	Antioxidant capacity and peptidomic analysis of in vitro digested Camelina sativa L. Crantz and Cynara cardunculus co-products. 	Antioxidant capacity and Peptidomic analysis of in vitro digested Camelina Sativa L. Crantz and Cynara cardunculus co- products	Antioxidant activity, Bioactive peptides, Camelina, Cardoon, Phenolic compounds, in vitro digestion, nanoLC-MS/MS., peptidomics	In recent decades, the food system has been faced with the significant problem of increasing food waste. Therefore, the feed industry, supported by scientific research, is attempting to valorise the use of discarded biomass as co-products for the livestock sector, in line with EU objectives. In parallel, the search for functional products that can ensure animal health and performances is a common fundamental goal for both animal husbandry and feeding. In this context, camelina cake (CAMC), cardoon cake (CC) and cardoon meal (CM), due valuable nutritional profile, represent prospective alternatives. Therefore, the aim of this work was to investigate the antioxidant activity of CAMC, CC and CM following in vitro digestion using 2,2'-azinobis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) (ABTS), Ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) and oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) assays. Total phenolic content (TPC) and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory activity, actively involved in modulating antioxidant properties, were also studied. Further, a peptidomic analysis was adopted to substantiate the presence of bioactive peptides after in vitro digestion. The results obtained confirmed an interesting nutritional profile of CAMC, CC and CM and relevant antioxidant and ACE inhibitory activities. In particular, considering antioxidant profile, CM and CC revealed a significantly higher (10969.80 +/- 18.93 mg TE/100 g and 10451.40 +/- 149.17 mg TE/100 g, respectively; p < 0.05) ABTS value than CAMC (9511.18 +/- 315.29 mg TE/100 g); a trend also confirmed with the FRAP assay (306.74 +/- 5.68 mg FeSO4/100 g; 272.84 +/- 11.02 mg FeSO4/100 g; 103.84 +/- 3.27 mg FeSO4/100 g, for CC, CM and CAMC, respectively). Similar results were obtained for TPC, demonstrating the involvement of phenols in modulating antioxidant activity. Finally, CAMC was found to have a higher ACE inhibitory activity (40.34 +/- 10.11%) than the other matrices. Furthermore, potentially bioactive peptides associated with ACE inhibitory, anti-hypertensive, anti-cancer, antimicrobial, antiviral, antithrombotic, DPP-IV inhibitory and PEP-inhibitory activities were identified in CAMC. This profile was broader than that of CC and CM. The presence of such peptides corroborates the antioxidant and ACE profile of the sample. Although the data obtained report the important antioxidant profile of CAMC, CC, and CM and support their possible use, future investigations, particularly in vivo trials will be critical to evaluate and further investigate their effects on the health and performance of farm animals.
PXD049248	38915247	Multicolumn Nanoflow Liquid Chromatography with Accelerated Offline Gradient Generation for Robust and Sensitive Single-Cell Proteome Profiling. 	Multicolumn Nanoflow Liquid Chromatography System with Accelerated Offline Gradient Generation for Robust and Sensitive Single-Cell Proteome Profiling	High throughput, LC-MS, multiple columns, single cell proteomics, storage loop	Peptide separations that combine high sensitivity, robustness, peak capacity, and throughput are essential for extending bottom-up proteomics to smaller samples including single cells. To this end, we have developed a multicolumn nanoLC system with offline gradient generation. One binary pump generates gradients in an accelerated fashion to support multiple analytical columns, and a single trap column interfaces with all analytical columns to reduce required maintenance and simplify troubleshooting. A high degree of parallelization is possible, as one sample undergoes separation while the next sample plus its corresponding mobile phase gradient are transferred into the storage loop and a third sample is loaded into a sample loop. Selective offline elution from the trap column into the sample loop prevents salts and hydrophobic species from entering the analytical column, thus greatly enhancing column lifetime and system robustness. With this design, samples can be analyzed as fast as every 20 min at a flow rate of just 40 nL/min with close to 100% MS utilization time and continuously for as long as several months without column replacement. We utilized the system to analyze the proteomes of single cells from a multiple myeloma cell line upon treatment with the immunomodulatory imide drug lenalidomide.
PXD049209	38916585	Circadian Control of the Response of Macrophages to Plasmodium Spp.-Infected Red Blood Cells. 	Circadian Control of the Response of Macrophages to Plasmodium spp.-Infected Red Blood Cells.	Macrophages, Plasmodium spp., circadian rhythms, immune responses., infected red blood cells	Malaria is a serious vector-borne disease characterized by periodic episodes of high fever and strong immune responses that are coordinated with the daily synchronized parasite replication cycle inside RBCs. As immune cells harbor an autonomous circadian clock that controls various aspects of the immune response, we sought to determine whether the intensity of the immune response to Plasmodium spp., the parasite causing malaria, depends on time of infection. To do this, we developed a culture model in which mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages are stimulated with RBCs infected with Plasmodium berghei ANKA (iRBCs). Lysed iRBCs, but not intact iRBCs or uninfected RBCs, triggered an inflammatory immune response in bone marrow-derived macrophages. By stimulating at four different circadian time points (16, 22, 28, or 34 h postsynchronization of the cells' clock), 24-h rhythms in reactive oxygen species and cytokines/chemokines were found. Furthermore, the analysis of the macrophage proteome and phosphoproteome revealed global changes in response to iRBCs that varied according to circadian time. This included many proteins and signaling pathways known to be involved in the response to Plasmodium infection. In summary, our findings show that the circadian clock within macrophages determines the magnitude of the inflammatory response upon stimulation with ruptured iRBCs, along with changes of the cell proteome and phosphoproteome.
PXD045695	38918375	N-terminal cysteine acetylation and oxidation patterns may define protein stability. 	LC-MSMS analysis of immunoprecipitated JunB-FLAG from HAP1 ADO KO cells	JunB	Oxygen homeostasis is maintained in plants and animals by O2-sensing enzymes initiating adaptive responses to low O2 (hypoxia). Recently, the O2-sensitive enzyme ADO was shown to initiate degradation of target proteins RGS4/5 and IL32 via the Cysteine/Arginine N-degron pathway. ADO functions by catalysing oxidation of N-terminal cysteine residues, but despite multiple proteins in the human proteome having an N-terminal cysteine, other endogenous ADO substrates have not yet been identified. This could be because alternative modifications of N-terminal cysteine residues, including acetylation, prevent ADO-catalysed oxidation. Here we investigate the relationship between ADO-catalysed oxidation and NatA-catalysed acetylation of a broad range of protein sequences with N-terminal cysteines. We present evidence that human NatA catalyses N-terminal cysteine acetylation in vitro and in vivo. We then show that sequences downstream of the N-terminal cysteine dictate whether this residue is oxidised or acetylated, with ADO preferring basic and aromatic amino acids and NatA preferring acidic or polar residues. In vitro, the two modifications appear to be mutually exclusive, suggesting that distinct pools of N-terminal cysteine proteins may be acetylated or oxidised. These results reveal the sequence determinants that contribute to N-terminal cysteine protein modifications, with implications for O2-dependent protein stability and the hypoxic response.
PXD047445	38918475	Visfatin impact on the proteome of porcine luteal cells during implantation. 	Visfatin impact on the proteome of porcine luteal cells during implantation	LC-MS, corpora lutea, early pregnancy, implantation, luteal cells, pig, visfatin	Visfatin (VIS) is a hormone belonging to the adipokines' group secreted mainly by the adipose tissue. VIS plays a crucial role in the control of energy homeostasis, inflammation, cell differentiation, and angiogenesis. VIS expression was confirmed in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis structures, as well as in the uterus, placenta, and conceptuses. We hypothesised that VIS may affect the abundance of proteins involved in the regulation of key processes occurring in the corpus luteum (CL) during the implantation process in pigs. In the present study, we performed the high-throughput proteomic analysis (liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry, LC-MS/MS) to examine the in vitro influence of VIS (100 ng/mL) on differentially regulated proteins (DRPs) in the porcine luteal cells (LCs) on days 15-16 of pregnancy (implantation period). We have identified 511 DRPs, 276 of them were up-regulated, and 235 down-regulated in the presence of VIS. Revealed DRPs were assigned to 162 gene ontology terms. Western blot analysis of five chosen DRPs, ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1 (ADAMTS1), lanosterol 14-alpha demethylase (CYP51A1), inhibin subunit beta A (INHBA), notch receptor 3 (NOTCH3), and prostaglandin E synthase 2 (mPGES2) confirmed the veracity and accuracy of LC-MS/MS method. We indicated that VIS modulates the expression of proteins connected with the regulation of lipogenesis and cholesterologenesis, and, in consequence, may be involved in the synthesis of steroid hormones, as well as prostaglandins' metabolism. Moreover, we revealed that VIS affects the abundance of protein associated with ovarian cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis, as well as CL new vessel formation and tissue remodelling. Our results suggest important roles for VIS in the regulation of ovarian functions during the peri-implantation period.
PXD049713	38919620	A novel host restriction factor MRPS6 mediates the inhibition of PDCoV infection in HIEC-6 cells. 	Proteomic analysis of PDCoV-infected HIEC-6 cells	HIEC-6, PDCoV	Introduction: Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is a zoonotic pathogen with a global distribution, capable of infecting both pigs and humans. To mitigate the risk of cross-species transmission and potential outbreaks, it is crucial to characterize novel antiviral genes, particularly those from human hosts. Methods: This research used HIEC-6 to investigate PDCoV infection. HIEC-6 cells were infected with PDCoV. Samples were collected 48 h postinfection for proteomic analysis. Results: We discovered differential expression of MRPS6 gene at 48 h postinfection with PDCoV in HIEC-6 cells. The gene expression initially increased but then decreased. To further explore the role of MRPS6 in PDCoV infection, we conducted experiments involving the overexpression and knockdown of this gene in HIEC-6 and Caco2 cells, respectively. Our findings revealed that overexpression of MRPS6 significantly inhibited PDCoV infection in HIEC-6 cells, while knockdown of MRPS6 in Caco2 cells led to a significant increase of virus titer. Furthermore, we investigated the correlation between PDCoV infection and the expression of MRPS6. Subsequent investigations demonstrated that MRPS6 exerted an augmentative effect on the production of IFN-beta through interferon pathway activation, consequently impeding the progression of PDCoV infection in cellular systems. In conclusion, this study utilized proteomic analysis to investigate the differential protein expression in PDCoV-infected HIEC-6 cells, providing evidence for the first time that the MRPS6 gene plays a restrictive role in PDCoV virus infection. Discussion: Our findings initially provide the validation of MRPS6 as an upstream component of IFN-beta pathway, in the promotion of IRF3, IRF7, STAT1, STAT2 and IFN-beta production of HIEC-6 via dual-activation from interferon pathway.
PXD049410	38919714	Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of Cutibacterium acnes biofilms and planktonic cultures in presence of epinephrine. 	Effect of epinephrine on a proteome of Cutibacterium acnes	Cutibacterium acnes, epinephrine	Transcriptomic and proteomic analysis were performed on 72 h biofilms of the acneic strain Cutibacterium acnes and planktonic cultures in the presence of epinephrine. Epinephrine predominantly downregulated genes associated with various transporter proteins. No correlation was found between proteomic and transcriptomic profiles. In control samples, the expression of 51 proteins differed between planktonic cultures and biofilms. Addition of 5 nM epinephrine reduced this number, and in the presence of 5 microM epinephrine, the difference in proteomic profiles between planktonic cultures and biofilms disappeared. According to the proteomic profiling, epinephrine itself was more effective in the case of C. acnes biofilms and potentially affected the tricarboxylic acid cycle (as well as alpha-ketoglutarate decarboxylase Kgd), biotin synthesis, cell division, and transport of different compounds in C. acnes cells. These findings are consistent with recent research on Micrococcus luteus, suggesting that the effects of epinephrine on actinobacteria may be universal.
PXD052808	38920099	A rapid and convenient sample treatment method based on the dissolvable polyacrylamide gel for S-acylation proteomics. 	A rapid and convenient sample treatment method based on the dissolvable polyacrylamide gel for S-acylation proteomics	S-acylation proteomics	Protein S-acylation is an important lipid modification and plays a series of biological functions. As a classic proteomic method for S-acylated proteome analysis, the acyl-biotin exchange and its derivative methods are known to be very labour-intensive and time-consuming all the time, and will result in significant sample loss. Multiple methanol-chloroform precipitations are involved in order to remove the substances that would interfere with enrichment and identification including detergents, the residual reduction and alkylation reagents. Here, we developed a rapid and convenient method for S-acylation proteomics by combining a dissolvable tube gel and the classic ABE method, a Dissolvable Gel based One-Tube sample Treatment method (DGOTT) method. The protein fixation rate, impact of the gel size on analysis performance and feasibility for analyzing complex samples were evaluated. This method enabled the alkylation and chemical substitution reactions to be conducted in a single EP tube, and convenient removal of interferents through gel washing, which could obviously simplify operations and shorten the sample treatment duration. Finally, we identified a total of 1625 potential S-acylated proteins from 800 mug of mouse brain cerebral cortex proteins. We believe that our method could offer potential for high-throughput analysis of protein S-acylation.
PXD041969	38921045	Low Levels of IgM Recognizing 4-Hydroxy-2-Nonenal-Modified Apolipoprotein A-I Peptide and Its Association with the Severity of Coronary Artery Disease in Taiwanese Patients. 	HNE-modification identification of ApoAI	Apolipoprotein AI, Autoantibody, Coronary artery disease, two 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal	Autoantibodies against apolipoprotein A-I (ApoA-I) are associated with cardiovascular disease risks. We aimed to examine the 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) modification of ApoA-I in coronary artery disease (CAD) and evaluate the potential risk of autoantibodies against their unmodified and HNE-modified peptides. We assessed plasma levels of ApoA-I, HNE-protein adducts, and autoantibodies against unmodified and HNE-peptide adducts, and significant correlations and odds ratios (ORs) were examined. Two novel CAD-specific HNE-peptide adducts, ApoA-I(251-262) and ApoA-I(70-83), were identified. Notably, immunoglobulin G (IgG) anti-ApoA-I(251-262) HNE, IgM anti-ApoA-I(70-83) HNE, IgG anti-ApoA-I(251-262), IgG anti-ApoA-I(70-83), and HNE-protein adducts were significantly correlated with triglycerides, creatinine, or high-density lipoprotein in CAD with various degrees of stenosis (<30% or >70%). The HNE-protein adduct (OR = 2.208-fold, p = 0.020) and IgM anti-ApoA-I(251-262) HNE (2.046-fold, p = 0.035) showed an increased risk of progression from >30% stenosis in CAD. HNE-protein adducts and IgM anti-ApoA-I(251-262) HNE may increase the severity of CAD at high and low levels, respectively.
PXD051031	38921822	Plasma and Kidney Proteome Profiling Combined with Laser Capture Microdissection Reveal Large Increases in Immunoglobulins with Age. 	Plasma and kidney proteome profiling combined with laser capture microdissection reveal large increases in immunoglobulins with age	Aging, Complement, Immunoglobulins, Kidney, Laser capture microdissection	One of the main hallmarks of aging is aging-associated inflammation, also known as inflammaging. In this study, by comparing plasma and kidney proteome profiling of young and old mice using LC-MS profiling, we discovered that immunoglobulins are the proteins that exhibit the highest increase with age. This observation seems to have been disregarded because conventional proteome profiling experiments typically overlook the expression of high-abundance proteins or employ depletion methods to remove them before LC-MS analysis. We show that proteome profiling of immunoglobulins will likely be a useful biomarker of aging. Spatial profiling using immunofluorescence staining of kidney sections indicates that the main increases in immunoglobulins with age are localized in the glomeruli of the kidney. Using laser capture microdissection coupled with LC-MS, we show an increase in multiple immune-related proteins in glomeruli from aged mice. Increased deposition of immunoglobulins, immune complexes, and complement proteins in the kidney glomeruli may be a factor leading to reduced filtering capacity of the kidney with age. Therapeutic strategies to reduce the deposition of immunoglobulins in the kidney may be an attractive strategy for healthy aging.
PXD052900	38922166	How to Overcome a Snail? Identification of Putative Neurotoxins of Snail-Feeding Firefly Larvae (Coleoptera: Lampyridae, Lampyris noctiluca). 	Analysis of midgut composition of Lamypris noctiluca larvae	extra-oral digestion, firefly larvae, toxins	The larvae of some lampyrid beetles are highly specialized predators of snails. They have been observed to climb on the shells of their prey and use this exposed position to bite and inject secretions potentially originating from the midgut. Besides serving the purpose of extra-oral digestion (EOD), injected compounds also seem to have a paralyzing effect. Up to now, the toxins causing this paralyzing activity have not been identified. In the current study, we provide a first compositional analysis of the midgut secretion from lampyrid larvae, with a focus on identifying putative neurotoxins causing the observed paralyzing effect. For this purpose, we utilized a combined proteo-transcriptomic approach to characterize the compounds present in the midgut secretion of larval stages of Lampyris noctiluca. In terms of the absolute numbers of identified compounds, the midgut secretion is dominated by hydrolyzing enzymes comprising peptidases, carboxylesterases, and glycosidases. However, when considering expression levels, a few rather short cysteine-rich peptides exceed all other compounds. Some of these compounds show moderate similarity to putative neurotoxins identified in the venom of other arthropods and could be responsible for paralyzing effects. In addition to these potential toxins, we provide a list of peptides typical of the midgut secretion of L. noctiluca, supplemented by the corresponding precursor sequences.
PXD049079	38923181	The microbiome of the lichen Lobaria pulmonaria varies according to climate on a subcontinental scale. 	The microbiome of the lichen Lobaria pulmonaria varies according to climate in Europe	Symbiosis, genotyping, holobiont, lung lichen, metaproteomics	The Lobaria pulmonaria holobiont comprises algal, fungal, cyanobacterial and bacterial components. We investigated L. pulmonaria's bacterial microbiome in the adaptation of this ecologically sensitive lichen species to diverse climatic conditions. Our central hypothesis posited that microbiome composition and functionality aligns with subcontinental-scale (a stretch of ~1100 km) climatic parameters related to temperature and precipitation. We also tested the impact of short-term weather dynamics, sampling season and algal/fungal genotypes on microbiome variation. Metaproteomics provided insights into compositional and functional changes within the microbiome. Climatic variables explained 41.64% of microbiome variation, surpassing the combined influence of local weather and sampling season at 31.63%. Notably, annual mean temperature and temperature seasonality emerged as significant climatic drivers. Microbiome composition correlated with algal, not fungal genotype, suggesting similar environmental recruitment for the algal partner and microbiome. Differential abundance analyses revealed distinct protein compositions in Sub-Atlantic Lowland and Alpine regions, indicating differential microbiome responses to contrasting environmental/climatic conditions. Proteins involved in oxidative and cellular stress were notably different. Our findings highlight microbiome plasticity in adapting to stable climates, with limited responsiveness to short-term fluctuations, offering new insights into climate adaptation in lichen symbiosis.
PXD041884	38923810	Quantifying Protein Acetylation in Diabetic Nephropathy from Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded Tissue. 	Quantifying Protein Acetylation in Diabetic Nephropathy from FFPE Explants	Acetylation, Diabetes (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), diabet, formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue, kidney disease	PURPOSE: Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a serious complication of diabetes mellitus and a leading cause of chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease. One potential mechanism underlying cellular dysfunction contributing to kidney disease is aberrant protein post-translational modifications. Lysine acetylation is associated with cellular metabolic flux and is thought to be altered in patients with diabetes and dysfunctional renal metabolism. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A novel extraction and LC-MS/MS approach was adapted to quantify sites of lysine acetylation from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) kidney tissue and from patients with DKD and non-diabetic donors (n = 5 and n = 7, respectively). RESULTS: Analysis of FFPE tissues identified 840 total proteins, with 225 of those significantly changing in patients with DKD. Acetylomic analysis quantified 289 acetylated peptides, with 69 of those significantly changing. Pathways impacted in DKD patients revealed numerous metabolic pathways, specifically mitochondrial function, oxidative phosphorylation, and sirtuin signaling. Differential protein acetylation in DKD patients impacted sirtuin signaling, valine, leucine, and isoleucine degradation, lactate metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and ketogenesis. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: A quantitative acetylomics platform was developed for protein biomarker discovery in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded biopsies of kidney transplant patients suffering from DKD.
PXD045479	38923974	Starvation-induced changes in the proteome and transcriptome of the salivary glands of leech (Hirudo nipponia). 	Proteomic study of salivary gland starvation stress in Hirudo nipponia based on non-labeling quantitative method	Hirudo nipponia	Hirudo nipponia is an important medicinal animal in China. Its salivary gland secretions contain a variety of protein bioactive substances. Investigations of its salivary glands are of great significance in the study of the medicinal value and mechanism of leech secretions. Illumina RNA-Seq technology was used to perform transcriptome sequencing of salivary gland tissue of H. nipponia under starvation (D30) and fed (D0) states. A total of 2,650 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened. Using the label-free protein quantification technique and bioinformatics analysis, the expression of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the salivary gland tissue of H. nipponia was compared. A total of 2,021 proteins were identified, among which 181 proteins were differentially expressed between the starvation and fed states, with 72 significantly upregulated and 109 significantly downregulated. The salivary glands of H. nipponia synthesized protein-based active substances after 30 days of starvation and adapted to the starvation environment by weakening respiratory activity and reducing metabolic activity to reduce energy expenditure. Energy was produced by glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle for the synthesis of substances such as antibiotics. This study combined transcriptome and proteome sequencing data to provide a data reference for an in-depth study of the regulatory mechanism of salivary gland secretions of H. nipponia under starvation stress by analyzing DEGs and DEPs.
PXD040705	38925115	Structure of the Hir histone chaperone complex. 	Structure of the Hir histone chaperone complex	DNA, EM, RNA, XLMS, chaperone, deposition, histone	The evolutionarily conserved HIRA/Hir histone chaperone complex and ASF1a/Asf1 co-chaperone cooperate to deposit histone (H3/H4)2 tetramers on DNA for replication-independent chromatin assembly. The molecular architecture of the HIRA/Hir complex and its mode of histone deposition have remained unknown. Here, we report the cryo-EM structure of the S. cerevisiae Hir complex with Asf1/H3/H4 at 2.9-6.8 Aa resolution. We find that the Hir complex forms an arc-shaped dimer with a Hir1/Hir2/Hir3/Hpc2 stoichiometry of 2/4/2/4. The core of the complex containing two Hir1/Hir2/Hir2 trimers and N-terminal segments of Hir3 forms a central cavity containing two copies of Hpc2, with one engaged by Asf1/H3/H4, in a suitable position to accommodate a histone (H3/H4)2 tetramer, while the C-terminal segments of Hir3 harbor nucleic acid binding activity to wrap DNA around the Hpc2-assisted histone tetramer. The structure suggests a model for how the Hir/Asf1 complex promotes the formation of histone tetramers for their subsequent deposition onto DNA.
PXD045022	38925330	Low molecular weight heparin promotes the PPAR pathway by protecting the glycocalyx of cells to delay the progression of diabetic nephropathy. 	Mouse kidney proteome data of"Low molecular weight heparin promotes the PPAR pathway by protecting the glycocalyx of cells to delay the progression of diabetic nephropathy"	mouse kidney proteome	Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is one of the most important comorbidities for diabetic patients, which is the main factor leading to end-stage renal disease. Heparin analogues can delay the progression of DN, but the mechanism is not fully understood. In this study, we found that low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) therapy significantly upregulated some downstream proteins of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway by label-free quantification of the mouse kidney proteome. Through cell model verification, LMWH can protect the heparan sulfate (HS) of renal tubular epithelial cells from being degraded by heparanase that is highly expressed in a high-glucose environment, enhance the endocytic recruitment of fatty acid-binding protein 1 (FABP1), a coactivator of the PPAR pathway, and then regulate the activation level of intracellular PPAR. In addition, we have elucidated for the first time the molecular mechanism of HS and FABP1 interaction. These findings provide new insights into understanding the role of heparin in the pathogenesis of DN and developing corresponding treatments.
PXD052498	38925341	Proteomic study of localized tissue necrosis by Naja atra venom. 	Proteomic study of localized tissue necrosis by Naja atra venom	Naja atra venomProteomicsParallel Reaction Monitoringsnakebite	Naja atra bites often result in immediate and severe illness. The venom of N. atra contains a complex mixture of toxins that can cause significant damage to the patient's skin tissue. If left untreated, this condition can progress to localized necrosis, potentially resulting in impairment or even amputation in severe cases. Despite the known effects of the venom, the exact mechanisms underlying this tissue necrosis are not fully understood. This study aimed to investigate the protein components responsible for tissue necrosis induced by N. atra venom at both the organism-wide and molecular levels. To achieve this, venom was injected into Bama miniature pigs to cause ulcers, and exudate samples were collected at various time points after injection. Label-free proteomics analysis identified 1119, 1016, 938, 864, and 855 proteins in the exudate at 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 hours post-injection, respectively. Further analysis revealed 431 differentially expressed proteins, with S100A8, MMP-2, MIF, and IDH2 identified as proteins associated with local tissue necrosis. In this study, we established a Bama miniature pig model for N. atra venom injection and performed proteomic analysis of the wound exudate, which provides important insights into the molecular pathology of snakebite-induced tissue necrosis and potential theoretical bases for clinical treatment. Proteomic data from this study can be accessed through ProteomeXchange using the identifier PXD052498.
PXD042833	38926604	Calcineurin/NFATc1 pathway represses cellular cytotoxicity by modulating histone H3 expression. 	Proteomic analysis of FK506 treated cancer cells	Calcineurin, FK506	Excess amounts of histones in the cell induce mitotic chromosome loss and genomic instability, and are therefore detrimental to cell survival. In yeast, excess histones are degraded by the proteasome mediated via the DNA damage response factor Rad53. Histone expression, therefore, is tightly regulated at the protein level. Our understanding of the transcriptional regulation of histone genes is far from complete. In this study, we found that calcineurin inhibitor treatment increased histone protein levels, and that the transcription factor NFATc1 (nuclear factor of activated T cells 1) repressed histone transcription and acts downstream of the calcineurin. We further revealed that NFATc1 binds to the promoter regions of many histone genes and that histone transcription is downregulated in a manner dependent on intracellular calcium levels. Indeed, overexpression of histone H3 markedly inhibited cell proliferation. Taken together, these findings suggest that NFATc1 prevents the detrimental effects of histone H3 accumulation by inhibiting expression of histone at the transcriptional level.
PXD035379	38926796	cGAS-ISG15-RAGE axis reprogram necroptotic microenvironment and promote lymphatic metastasis in head and neck cancer. 	Label-free proteomic analysis of apoptotic, necrotic and necroptotic DAMPs from HNSCC cells	DAMPs, Head and neck cancer, Necroptosis	BACKGROUND: Cancer cells frequently evolve necroptotic resistance to overcome various survival stress during tumorigenesis. However, we have previously showed that necroptosis is widespread in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and contributes to tumor progression and poor survival via DAMPs-induced migration and invasiveness in peri-necroptotic tumor cells. This implicated an alternative strategy that cancers cope with necroptotic stress by reprogramming a pro-invasive necroptotic microenvironment (NME). Here, we aim to decipher how necroptotic cells shape the NME and affect HNSCC progression. METHODS: Both our pre-established cellular necroptotic model and newly established Dox-induce intratumoral necroptosis model were used to investigate how necroptosis affect HNSCC progression. Transcriptomic alterations in peri-necroptotic tumor cells were analyzed by RNA-seq and validated in the NME in mice and patients' samples. The differential DAMPs compositon among apopotosis. Necrosis, and necroptosis were analyzed by label-free proteomic technique, and the necroptosis-specific DAMPs were then identified and validated. The potential receptor for ISG15 were simulated using molecular docking and further validated by in vitro assays. Then the ISG15-RAGE axis was blocked by either knockdown of necroptotic-ISG15 release and RAGE inhibitor FPS-ZM1, and the impact on tumor progression were tested. Last, we further tested our findings in a HNSCC-patients cohort. RESULTS: Necroptosis played a crucial role in driving tumor-cell invasiveness and lymphatic metastasis via tumor-type dependent DAMPs-releasing. Mechanistically, necroptotic DAMPs induced peri-necroptotic EMT via NF-kappaB and STAT3 signaling. Furthermore, intrinsic orchestration between necroptotic and cGAS-STING signaling resulted in producing a group of interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) as HNSCC-dependent necroptotic DAMPs. Among them, ISG15 played an essential role in reprogramming the NME. We then identified RAGE as a novel receptor for extracellular ISG15. Either blockage of ISG15 release or ISG15-RAGE interaction dramatically impeded necroptosis-driven EMT and lymphatic metastasis in HNSCC. Lastly, clinicopathological analysis showed high ISG15 expression in NME. Extensive necroptosis and high tumor-cell RAGE expression correlated with tumor progression and poor survival of HNSCC patients. CONCLUSIONS: Our data revealed a previously unknown cGAS-ISG15-RAGE dependent reprogramming of the necroptotic microenvironment which converts the necroptotic stress into invasive force to foster HNSCC-cell dissemination. By demonstrating the programmatic production of ISG15 via necroptosis-cGAS orchestration and its downstream signaling through RAGE, we shed light on the unique role of ISG15 in HNSCC progression. Targeting such machineries may hold therapeutic potential for restoring intratumoral survival stress and preventing lymphatic metastasis in HNSCC.
PXD051920	38927711	A Proteogenomic Approach to Unravel New Proteins Encoded in the Leishmania donovani (HU3) Genome. 	Experimental proteome of Leishmania donovani (HU3 strain) promastigotes	Leishmania, promastigote	The high-throughput proteomics data generated by increasingly more sensible mass spectrometers greatly contribute to our better understanding of molecular and cellular mechanisms operating in live beings. Nevertheless, proteomics analyses are based on accurate genomic and protein annotations, and some information may be lost if these resources are incomplete. Here, we show that most proteomics data may be recovered by interconnecting genomics and proteomics approaches (i.e., following a proteogenomic strategy), resulting, in turn, in an improvement of gene/protein models. In this study, we generated proteomics data from Leishmania donovani (HU3 strain) promastigotes that allowed us to detect 1908 proteins in this developmental stage on the basis of the currently annotated proteins available in public databases. However, when the proteomics data were searched against all possible open reading frames existing in the L. donovani genome, twenty new protein-coding genes could be annotated. Additionally, 43 previously annotated proteins were extended at their N-terminal ends to accommodate peptides detected in the proteomics data. Also, different post-translational modifications (phosphorylation, acetylation, methylation, among others) were found to occur in a large number of Leishmania proteins. Finally, a detailed comparative analysis of the L. donovani and Leishmania major experimental proteomes served to illustrate how inaccurate conclusions can be raised if proteomes are compared solely on the basis of the listed proteins identified in each proteome. Finally, we have created data entries (based on freely available repositories) to provide and maintain updated gene/protein models. Raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD051920.
PXD051826	38928492	Proteomics Analysis of Proteotoxic Stress Response in In-Vitro Human Neuronal Models. 	proteotoxic stress response in in-vitro 2 human neuronal models 3	heat shock, neurons, proteostasis, proteotoxic stress, stress response	Heat stroke, a hazardous hyperthermia-related illness, is characterized by CNS injury, particularly long-lasting brain damage. A root cause for hyperthermic neurological damage is heat-induced proteotoxic stress through protein aggregation, a known causative agent of neurological disorders. Stress magnitude and enduring persistence are highly correlated with hyperthermia-associated neurological damage. We used an untargeted proteomic approach using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify and characterize time-series proteome-wide changes in dose-responsive proteotoxic stress models in medulloblastoma [Daoy], neuroblastoma [SH-SY5Y], and differentiated SH-SY5Y neuron-like cells [SH(D)]. An integrated analysis of condition-time datasets identified global proteome-wide differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) as part of the heat-induced proteotoxic stress response. The condition-specific analysis detected higher DEPs and upregulated proteins in extreme heat stress with a relatively conservative and tight regulation in differentiated SH-SY5Y neuron-like cells. Functional network analysis using ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) identified common intercellular pathways associated with the biological processes of protein, RNA, and amino acid metabolism and cellular response to stress and membrane trafficking. The condition-wise temporal pathway analysis in the differentiated neuron-like cells detects a significant pathway, functional, and disease association of DEPs with processes like protein folding and protein synthesis, Nervous System Development and Function, and Neurological Disease. An elaborate dose-dependent stress-specific and neuroprotective cellular signaling cascade is also significantly activated. Thus, our study provides a comprehensive map of the heat-induced proteotoxic stress response associating proteome-wide changes with altered biological processes. This helps to expand our understanding of the molecular basis of the heat-induced proteotoxic stress response with potential translational connotations.
PXD050702	38929080	Proteome Analysis Related to Unsaturated Fatty Acid Synthesis by Interfering with Bovine Adipocyte ACSL1 Gene. 	Proteome analysis related to unsaturated fatty acid synthesis by interfering bovine adipocyte ACSL1 gene	ACSL1, Bovine adipocytes, Unsaturated fatty acids	Unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs) in beef play a vital role in promoting human health. Long-chain fatty acyl-CoA synthase 1 (ACSL1) is a crucial gene for UFA synthesis in bovine adipocytes. To investigate the protein expression profile during UFA synthesis, we performed a proteomic analysis of bovine adipocytes by RNA interference and non-interference with ACSL1 using label-free techniques. A total of 3558 proteins were identified in both the NC and si-treated groups, of which 1428 were differentially expressed proteins (DEPs; fold change >= 1.2 or <= 0.83 and p-value < 0.05). The enrichment analysis of the DEPs revealed signaling pathways related to UFA synthesis or metabolism, including cAMP, oxytocin, fatty acid degradation, glycerol metabolism, insulin, and the regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes (p-value < 0.05). Furthermore, based on the enrichment analysis of the DEPs, we screened 50 DEPs that potentially influence the synthesis of UFAs and constructed an interaction network. Moreover, by integrating our previously published transcriptome data, this study established a regulatory network involving differentially expressed long non-coding RNAs (DELs), highlighting 21 DEPs and 13 DELs as key genes involved in UFA synthesis. These findings present potential candidate genes for further investigation into the molecular mechanisms underlying UFA synthesis in bovines, thereby offering insights to enhance the quality of beef and contribute to consumer health in future studies.
PXD051350	38930884	Synergistic Therapeutic Effects of D-Mannitol-Cerium-Quercetin (Rutin) Coordination Polymer Nanoparticles on Acute Lung Injury. 	Synergistic Therapeutic Effects of D-Mannitol-Cerium-Quercetin (Rutin) Coordination Polymer Nanoparticles on Acute Lung Injury	Acute lung injury, Cerium ions, D-Mannitol, Quercetin, Rutin, Self-assembly	Acute lung injury (ALI) remains a significant global health issue, necessitating novel therapeutic interventions. In our latest study, we pioneered the use of D-mannitol-cerium-quercetin/rutin coordination polymer nanoparticles (MCQ/R NPs) as a potential treatment for ALI. The MCQ/R NPs, which integrate rutin and quercetin for their therapeutic potential and D-mannitol for its pulmonary targeting, displayed exceptional efficacy. By utilizing cerium ions for optimal nanoparticle assembly, the MCQ/R NPs demonstrated an average size of less than 160 nm. Impressively, these nanoparticles outperformed conventional treatments in both antioxidative capabilities and biocompatibility. Moreover, our in vivo studies on LPS-induced ALI mice showed a significant reduction in lung tissue inflammation. This groundbreaking research presents MCQ/R NPs as a promising new approach in ALI therapeutics.
PXD051493	38931064	Chemical Protein Crosslinking-Coupled Mass Spectrometry Reveals Interaction of LHCI with LHCII and LHCSR3 in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. 	Chemical crosslinking of photosystem I antenna proteins	Chlamydomonas, LHC, light harvesting, photosynthesis	The photosystem I (PSI) of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii associates with 10 light-harvesting proteins (LHCIs) to form the PSI-LHCI complex. In the context of state transitions, two LHCII trimers bind to the PSAL, PSAH and PSAO side of PSI to produce the PSI-LHCI-LHCII complex. In this work, we took advantage of chemical crosslinking of proteins in conjunction with mass spectrometry to identify protein-protein interactions between the light-harvesting proteins of PSI and PSII. We detected crosslinks suggesting the binding of LHCBM proteins to the LHCA1-PSAG side of PSI as well as protein-protein interactions of LHCSR3 with LHCA5 and LHCA3. Our data indicate that the binding of LHCII to PSI is more versatile than anticipated and imply that LHCSR3 might be involved in the regulation of excitation energy transfer to the PSI core via LHCA5/LHCA3.
PXD050634	38932701	ONECUT2 acts as a lineage plasticity driver in adenocarcinoma as well as neuroendocrine variants of prostate cancer. 	ONECUT2 acts a lineage plasticity driver	ONECUT2, interactome, prostate cancer	Androgen receptor- (AR-) indifference is a mechanism of resistance to hormonal therapy in prostate cancer (PC). Here we demonstrate that ONECUT2 (OC2) activates resistance through multiple drivers associated with adenocarcinoma, stem-like and neuroendocrine (NE) variants. Direct OC2 gene targets include the glucocorticoid receptor (GR; NR3C1) and the NE splicing factor SRRM4, which are key drivers of lineage plasticity. Thus, OC2, despite its previously described NEPC driver function, can indirectly activate a portion of the AR cistrome through epigenetic activation of GR. Mechanisms by which OC2 regulates gene expression include promoter binding, enhancement of genome-wide chromatin accessibility, and super-enhancer reprogramming. Pharmacologic inhibition of OC2 suppresses lineage plasticity reprogramming induced by the AR signaling inhibitor enzalutamide. These results demonstrate that OC2 activation promotes a range of drug resistance mechanisms associated with treatment-emergent lineage variation in PC and support enhanced efforts to therapeutically target OC2 as a means of suppressing treatment-resistant disease.
PXD049294	38934547	Benchmarking low- and high-throughput protein cleanup and digestion methods for human fecal metaproteomics. 	Benchmarking low- and high-throughput protein cleanup and digestion methods for human fecal metaproteomics	FASP, gut microbiota, metaproteome, multiwell plate, sample preparation	The application of fecal metaproteomics to large-scale studies of the gut microbiota requires high-throughput analysis and standardized experimental protocols. Although high-throughput protein cleanup and digestion methods are increasingly used in shotgun proteomics, no studies have yet critically compared such protocols using human fecal samples. In this study, human fecal protein extracts were processed using several different protocols based on three main approaches: filter-aided sample preparation (FASP), solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3), and suspension trapping (S-Trap). These protocols were applied in both low-throughput (i.e., microtube-based) and high-throughput (i.e., microplate-based) formats, and the final peptide mixtures were analyzed by liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry. The FASP-based methods and the combination of SP3 with in-StageTips (iST) yielded the best results in terms of the number of peptides identified through a database search against gut microbiome and human sequences. The efficiency of protein digestion, the ability to preserve hydrophobic peptides and high molecular weight proteins, and the reproducibility of the methods were also evaluated for the different protocols. Other relevant variables, including interindividual variability of stool, duration of protocols, and total costs, were considered and discussed. In conclusion, the data presented here can significantly contribute to the optimization and standardization of sample preparation protocols in human fecal metaproteomics. Furthermore, the promising results obtained with the high-throughput methods are expected to encourage the development of automated workflows and their application to large-scale gut microbiome studies.IMPORTANCEFecal metaproteomics is an experimental approach that allows the investigation of gut microbial functions, which are involved in many different physiological and pathological processes. Standardization and automation of sample preparation protocols in fecal metaproteomics are essential for its application in large-scale studies. Here, we comparatively evaluated different methods, available also in a high-throughput format, enabling two key steps of the metaproteomics analytical workflow (namely, protein cleanup and digestion). The results of our study provide critical information that may be useful for the optimization of metaproteomics experimental pipelines and their implementation in laboratory automation systems.
PXD052741	38938629	Multifaceted insights into the environmental adaptability of Arnebia guttata under drought stress. 	Multifaceted insights into the environmental adaptability of Arnebia guttata under drought stress	Arnebia guttata, drought stress, environmental adaptability, metabolomic profiling, multiple Q7 producing areas, shikonin, transcriptomic profiling	Introduction: Global warming has led to increased environmental stresses on plants, notably drought. This affects plant distribution and species adaptability, with some medicinal plants showing enhanced drought tolerance and increased medicinal components. In this pioneering study, we delve into the intricate tapestry of Arnebia guttata, a medicinal plant renowned for its resilience in arid environments. By fusing a rich historical narrative with cutting-edge analytical methodologies, this research endeavors to demystify the plant's intricate response to drought stress, illuminating its profound implications for medicinal valorization. Methods: The methodology includes a comprehensive textual research and resource investigation of A. guttata, regionalization studies, field sample distribution analysis, transcriptome and metabolome profiling, rhizosphere soil microbiome analysis, and drought stress experiments. Advanced computational tools like ArcGIS, MaxEnt, and various bioinformatics software were utilized for data analysis and modeling. Results: The study identified significant genetic variations among A. guttata samples from different regions, correlating with environmental factors, particularly precipitation during the warmest quarter (BIO18). Metabolomic analysis revealed marked differences in metabolite profiles, including shikonin content, which is crucial for the plant's medicinal properties. Soil microbial community analysis showed variations that could impact plant metabolism and stress response. Drought stress experiments demonstrated A. guttata's resilience and its ability to modulate metabolic pathways to enhance drought tolerance. Discussion: The findings underscore the complex interplay between genetic makeup, environmental factors, and microbial communities in shaping A. guttata's adaptability and medicinal value. The study provides insights into how drought stress influences the synthesis of active compounds and suggests that moderate stress could enhance the plant's medicinal properties. Predictive modeling indicates future suitable growth areas for A. guttata, aiding in resource management and conservation efforts. The research contributes to the sustainable development of medicinal resources and offers strategies for improving the cultivation of A. guttata.
PXD038854	38938901	Cardiomyocyte intercellular signalling increases oxidative stress and reprograms the global- and phospho-proteome of cardiac fibroblasts. 	Cardiomyocytes regulate cardiac fibroblast activation and oxidative stress via CK2 signaling	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), CK2, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), cardiac fibroblasts, cardiomyocytes, signaling	Pathological reprogramming of cardiomyocyte and fibroblast proteome landscapes drive the initiation and progression of cardiac fibrosis. Although the secretome of dysfunctional cardiomyocytes is emerging as an important driver of pathological fibroblast reprogramming, our understanding of the downstream molecular players remains limited. Here, we show that cardiac fibroblast activation (alphaSMA(+)) and oxidative stress mediated by the secretome of TGFbeta-stimulated cardiomyocytes is associated with a profound reprogramming of their proteome and phosphoproteome landscape. Within the fibroblast global proteome there was a striking dysregulation of proteins implicated in extracellular matrix, protein localisation/metabolism, KEAP1-NFE2L2 pathway, lysosomes, carbohydrate metabolism, and transcriptional regulation. Kinase substrate enrichment analysis of phosphopeptides revealed potential role of kinases (CK2, CDK2, PKC, GSK3B) during this remodelling. We verified upregulated activity of casein kinase 2 (CK2) in secretome-treated fibroblasts, and pharmacological CK2 inhibitor TBB (4,5,6,7-Tetrabromobenzotriazole) significantly abrogated fibroblast activation and oxidative stress. Our data provides molecular insights into cardiomyocyte to cardiac fibroblast crosstalk, and the potential role of CK2 in regulating cardiac fibroblast activation and oxidative stress.
PXD052001	38939838	Involvement of autophagy in mesaconitine-induced neurotoxicity in HT22 cells revealed through integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and m6A epitranscriptomic profiling. 	The involvement of autophagy in mesaconitine-induced neurotoxicity in HT22 cells revealed through integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and m6A epitranscriptomic profiling	autophagy, m6A modification, mesaconitine, neurotoxicity	Background: Mesaconitine (MA), a diester-diterpenoid alkaloid extracted from the medicinal herb Aconitum carmichaelii, is commonly used to treat various diseases. Previous studies have indicated the potent toxicity of aconitum despite its pharmacological activities, with limited understanding of its effects on the nervous system and the underlying mechanisms. Methods: HT22 cells and zebrafish were used to investigate the neurotoxic effects of MA both in vitro and in vivo, employing multi-omics techniques to explore the potential mechanisms of toxicity. Results: Our results demonstrated that treatment with MA induces neurotoxicity in zebrafish and HT22 cells. Subsequent analysis revealed that MA induced oxidative stress, as well as structural and functional damage to mitochondria in HT22 cells, accompanied by an upregulation of mRNA and protein expression related to autophagic and lysosomal pathways. Furthermore, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) showed a correlation between the expression of autophagy-related genes and N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification following MA treatment. In addition, we identified METTL14 as a potential regulator of m6A methylation in HT22 cells after exposure to MA. Conclusion: Our study has contributed to a thorough mechanistic elucidation of the neurotoxic effects caused by MA, and has provided valuable insights for optimizing the rational utilization of traditional Chinese medicine formulations containing aconitum in clinical practice.
PXD048169	38941278	Simultaneous Determination of Animal Products from Ruminant, Pig, Poultry, and Fish in Feedingstuff by Targeted High-Resolution LC-MS/MS. 	Simultaneous determination of animal products from ruminants, pig, poultry and fish in feedingstuff by targeted high-resolution LC-MS/MS	Processed animal proteins, high-resolution liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, parallel reaction monitoring	The prohibition of processed animal proteins (PAPs) has been relaxed gradually since 2007. The official control method for PAPs in feedingstuff, a combination of light microscopy (LM) followed by PCR, is no longer sufficient. Thus, a targeted LC-MS/MS method was developed, which enables a tissue-specific distinction between egg and dairy products, gelatine, and PAPs derived from blood or muscle tissue of the species ruminants, pigs, poultry, and fish. Tissue-specific proteins were analyzed after tryptic digestion to peptides with high-resolution ESI-QTOF-MS. A targeted method was developed based on untargeted proteomics approaches and the selection of specific peptides (45 unique peptides in total). Proficiency testing of blank and spiked samples revealed excellent results for trueness and selectivity. Furthermore, sensitivity was achieved at a level of 0.1% (w/w) for assessed peptides. Summing up, the developed method seems to be suitable for routine analysis after verification by ring trials.
PXD039428	38941453	Twilight length alters growth and flowering time in Arabidopsis via LHY/CCA1. 	Twilight length alters clock function, growth and flowering time in Arabidopsis via LHY/CCA1	BoxCarDIA, Light Signaling	Decades of research have uncovered how plants respond to two environmental variables that change across latitudes and over seasons: photoperiod and temperature. However, a third such variable, twilight length, has so far gone unstudied. Here, using controlled growth setups, we show that the duration of twilight affects growth and flowering time via the LHY/CCA1 clock genes in the model plant Arabidopsis. Using a series of progressively truncated no-twilight photoperiods, we also found that plants are more sensitive to twilight length compared to equivalent changes in solely photoperiods. Transcriptome and proteome analyses showed that twilight length affects reactive oxygen species metabolism, photosynthesis, and carbon metabolism. Genetic analyses suggested a twilight sensing pathway from the photoreceptors PHY E, PHY B, PHY D, and CRY2 through LHY/CCA1 to flowering modulation through the GI-FT pathway. Overall, our findings call for more nuanced models of day-length perception in plants and posit that twilight is an important determinant of plant growth and development.
PXD050491	38941592	Accumulation of Intracellular Protein Advanced Glycation End Products Alters Cellular Homeostasis for Protein Clearance in Pancreatic Ductal Epithelial Cells. 	Glyceraldehyde treatment on pancreatic ductal epithelial cells	Advanced Glcation End products (AGEs), Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cancer (B/D-HPP), Diabetes (B/D-HPP), Glycation, Glyceraldehyde, ProteomeXchange project tag: Protein Misfolding and Aggregation (B/D-HPP), e	Protein advanced glycation end products (AGEs) can be formed via nonenzymatic glycation and accumulated intracellularly to disrupt cellular homeostasis for protein clearance. Here, we investigated the formation particulars of intracellular protein AGEs and sought to elucidate the molecular events implicated in the impact of cellular clearance systems. The formation and accumulation of intracellular protein AGEs increased protein aggregation and protease resistance, potentially overwhelming the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). At high levels of protein AGEs, the abundance of many E3 ligases decreased and the overall ubiquitination level was reduced, all of which indicated decreased UPS activity. On the other hand, autophagy activity was stimulated, as evidenced by the upregulation of autophagy marker LC3II and important proteins in autophagosome and autolysosome formation, as well as downregulation of mTOR. Understanding the functional impacts of intracellular protein AGEs on the UPS and autophagy could pave the way for the future development of pharmaceutical agents targeting AGE-related diseases.
PXD053157	38941811	Proteomic and metabolic analysis of Moorella thermoacetica-g-C3N4 nanocomposite system for artificial photosynthesis. 	Proteomic Analysis of Moorella thermoacetica-g-C3N4 Biohybrid system for Artificial Photosynthesis	artificial photosynthesis, biohybrid system, charge transfer mechanism, metabolic analysis, proteomic analysis	Artificial photosynthesis by microbe-semiconductor biohybrid systems has been demonstrated as a valuable strategy in providing sustainable energy and in carbon fixation. However, most of the developed biohybrid systems for light harvesting employ heavy metal materials, especially cadmium sulfide (CdS), which normally cause environmental pollution and restrict the widespread of the systems. Herein, we constructed an environmentally friendly biohybirid system based on a typical acetogenic bacteria, Moorella thermoacetica, coupling with a carbon-based semiconductor, graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4), to realize light-driven carbon fixation. The proposed biohybrid system displayed outstanding acetate productivity with a quantum yield of 2.66 +/- 0.43 %. Non-targeted proteomic analysis indicated that the physiological activity of the bacteria was improved, coupling with the non-toxic material. We further proposed the mechanisms of energy generation, electron transfer and CO2 fixation of the irradiated biohybrid system by proteomic and metabolomic characterization. With the photoelectron generated in g-C3N4 under illumination, CO2 is finally converted to acetate via the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway (WLP). Other associated pathways were also proved to be activated, providing extra energy or substrates for acetate production. The study reveals that the future focus of the development of biohybrid systems for light harvesting can be on the metal-free biocompatible material, which can activate the expression of the key enzymes involved in the electron transfer and carbon metabolism under light irradiation.
PXD041605	38942028	O-GlcNAcase regulates pluripotency states of human embryonic stem cells. 	OGA-mediated protein glycosylation regulates pluripotency states in human embryonic stem cells	human embryonic stem cells,OGA,O-GlcNAc	Understanding the regulation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) pluripotency is critical to advance the field of developmental biology and regenerative medicine. Despite the recent progress, molecular events regulating hESC pluripotency, especially the transition between naive and primed states, still remain unclear. Here we show that naive hESCs display lower levels of O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAcylation) than primed hESCs. O-GlcNAcase (OGA), the key enzyme catalyzing the removal of O-GlcNAc from proteins, is highly expressed in naive hESCs and is important for naive pluripotency. Depletion of OGA accelerates naive-to-primed pluripotency transition. OGA is transcriptionally regulated by EP300 and acts as a transcription regulator of genes important for maintaining naive pluripotency. Moreover, we profile protein O-GlcNAcylation of the two pluripotency states by quantitative proteomics. Together, this study identifies OGA as an important factor of naive pluripotency in hESCs and suggests that O-GlcNAcylation has a broad effect on hESCs homeostasis.
PXD047563	38942797	BAG6 restricts pancreatic cancer progression by suppressing the release of IL33-presenting extracellular vesicles and the activation of mast cells. 	Extracellular vesicles from pancreatic cancer cells activate mast cells which in turn promote tumor cell proliferation and establish a tumor-supportive microenvironment 	Bag6, DDA, TimsTof Pro, extracellular vesicles, pancreatic cancer	Recent studies reveal a critical role of tumor cell-released extracellular vesicles (EVs) in pancreatic cancer (PC) progression. However, driver genes that direct EV function, the EV-recipient cells, and their cellular response to EV uptake remain to be identified. Therefore, we studied the role of Bcl-2-associated-anthanogene 6 (BAG6), a regulator of EV biogenesis for cancer progression. We used a Cre recombinase/LoxP-based reporter system in combination with single-cell RNA sequencing to monitor in vivo EV uptake and tumor microenvironment (TME) changes in mouse models for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) in a Bag6 pro- or deficient background. In vivo data were validated using mouse and human organoids and patient samples. Our data demonstrated that Bag6-deficient subcutaneous and orthotopic PDAC tumors accelerated tumor growth dependent on EV release. Mechanistically, this was attributed to mast cell (MC) activation via EV-associated IL33. Activated MCs promoted tumor cell proliferation and altered the composition of the TME affecting fibroblast polarization and immune cell infiltration. Tumor cell proliferation and fibroblast polarization were mediated via the MC secretome containing high levels of PDGF and CD73. Patients with high BAG6 gene expression and high protein plasma level have a longer overall survival indicating clinical relevance. The current study revealed a so far unknown tumor-suppressing activity of BAG6 in PDAC. Bag6-deficiency allowed the release of EV-associated IL33 which modulate the TME via MC activation promoting aggressive tumor growth. MC depletion using imatinib diminished tumor growth providing a scientific rationale to consider imatinib for patients stratified with low BAG6 expression and high MC infiltration. EVs derived from BAG6-deficient pancreatic cancer cells induce MC activation via IL33/Il1rl1. The secretome of activated MCs induces tumor proliferation and changes in the TME, particularly shifting fibroblasts into an inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblast (iCAF) phenotype. Blocking EVs or depleting MCs restricts tumor growth.
PXD043580	38942927	The proteogenomic landscape of multiple myeloma reveals insights into disease biology and therapeutic opportunities. 	Proteogenomic landscape of multiple myeloma	MACS sorting, UBE2Q1, multiple myeloma	Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell malignancy of the bone marrow. Despite therapeutic advances, MM remains incurable, and better risk stratification as well as new therapies are therefore highly needed. The proteome of MM has not been systematically assessed before and holds the potential to uncover insight into disease biology and improved prognostication in addition to genetic and transcriptomic studies. Here we provide a comprehensive multiomics analysis including deep tandem mass tag-based quantitative global (phospho)proteomics, RNA sequencing, and nanopore DNA sequencing of 138 primary patient-derived plasma cell malignancies encompassing treatment-naive MM, plasma cell leukemia and the premalignancy monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, as well as healthy controls. We found that the (phospho)proteome of malignant plasma cells are highly deregulated as compared with healthy plasma cells and is both defined by chromosomal alterations as well as posttranscriptional regulation. A prognostic protein signature was identified that is associated with aggressive disease independent of established risk factors in MM. Integration with functional genetics and single-cell RNA sequencing revealed general and genetic subtype-specific deregulated proteins and pathways in plasma cell malignancies that include potential targets for (immuno)therapies. Our study demonstrates the potential of proteogenomics in cancer and provides an easily accessible resource for investigating protein regulation and new therapeutic approaches in MM.
PXD047110	38943343	Phosphorylation of the nuclear poly(A) binding protein (PABPN1) during mitosis protects mRNA from hyperadenylation and maintains transcriptome dynamics. 	Phosphorylation of PABPN1 during mitosis protects mRNA from hyperadenylation and maintains transcriptome stability.	3 end processing factors, PABPN1, RNA stability, cell cycle, long-read sequencing, polyadenylation	Polyadenylation controls mRNA biogenesis, nucleo-cytoplasmic export, translation and decay. These processes are interdependent and coordinately regulated by poly(A)-binding proteins (PABPs), yet how PABPs are themselves regulated is not fully understood. Here, we report the discovery that human nuclear PABPN1 is phosphorylated by mitotic kinases at four specific sites during mitosis, a time when nucleoplasm and cytoplasm mix. To understand the functional consequences of phosphorylation, we generated a panel of stable cell lines inducibly over-expressing PABPN1 with point mutations at these sites. Phospho-inhibitory mutations decreased cell proliferation, highlighting the importance of PABPN1 phosphorylation in cycling cells. Dynamic regulation of poly(A) tail length and RNA stability have emerged as important modes of gene regulation. We therefore employed long-read sequencing to determine how PABPN1 phospho-site mutants affected poly(A) tails lengths and TimeLapse-seq to monitor mRNA synthesis and decay. Widespread poly(A) tail lengthening was observed for phospho-inhibitory PABPN1 mutants. In contrast, expression of phospho-mimetic PABPN1 resulted in shorter poly(A) tails with increased non-A nucleotides, in addition to increased transcription and reduced stability of a distinct cohort of mRNAs. Taken together, PABPN1 phosphorylation remodels poly(A) tails and increases mRNA turnover, supporting the model that enhanced transcriptome dynamics reset gene expression programs across the cell cycle.
PXD052453	38943644	Translocational attenuation mediated by the PERK-SRP14 axis is a protective mechanism of unfolded protein response. 	Translocational attenuation regulated by PERK-SRP14 axis is a novel protective mechanism of UPR	ER stress, PERK, SRP14, UPR, translocational attenuation	The unfolded protein response (UPR) relieves endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress through multiple strategies, including reducing protein synthesis, increasing protein folding capabilities, and enhancing misfolded protein degradation. After a multi-omics analysis, we find that signal recognition particle 14 (SRP14), an essential component of the SRP, is markedly reduced in cells undergoing ER stress. Further experiments indicate that SRP14 reduction requires PRKR-like ER kinase (PERK)-mediated eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2alpha (eIF2alpha) phosphorylation but is independent of ATF4 or ATF3 transcription factors. The decrease of SRP14 correlates with reduced translocation of fusion proteins and endogenous cathepsin D. Enforced expression of an SRP14 variant with elongation arrest capability prevents the reduced translocation of cathepsin D in stressed cells, whereas an SRP14 mutant without the activity does not. Finally, overexpression of SRP14 augments the UPR and aggravates ER-stress-induced cell death. These data suggest that translocational attenuation mediated by the PERK-SRP14 axis is a protective measure for the UPR to mitigate ER stress.
PXD041654	38943728	GABA-mediated inhibition of human CD4(+) T cell functions is enhanced by insulin but impaired by high glucose levels. 	GABA, glucose and insulin orchestrate CD4+ T cells effector functions	CD4, GABA	BACKGROUND: gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), known as the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, exerts immunomodulatory functions by interaction with immune cells, including T cells. Metabolic programs of T cells are closely linked to their effector functions including proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production. The physiological molecules glucose and insulin may provide environmental cues and guidance, but whether they coordinate to regulate GABA-mediated T cell immunomodulation is still being examined. METHODS: CD4(+) T cells that were isolated from blood samples from healthy individuals and from patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) were activated in vitro. We carried out metabolic assays, multiple proximity extension assay (PEA), ELISA, qPCR, immunoblotting, immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometry analysis, MS-based proteomics, as well as electrophysiology and live-cell Ca(2+) imaging. FINDINGS: We demonstrate that GABA-mediated reduction of metabolic activity and the release of inflammatory proteins, including IFNgamma and IL-10, were abolished in human CD4(+) T cells from healthy individuals and patients with T1D when the glucose concentration was elevated above levels typically observed in healthy people. Insulin increased GABAA receptor-subunit rho2 expression, enhanced the GABAA receptors-mediated currents and Ca(2+) influx. GABA decreased, whereas insulin sustained, hexokinase activity and glycolysis in a glucose concentration-dependent manner. INTERPRETATION: These findings support that metabolic factors, such as glucose and insulin, influence the GABA-mediated immunomodulation of human primary T cells effector functions. FUNDING: The Swedish Children's Diabetes Foundation, The Swedish Diabetes Foundation, The Swedish Research Council 2018-02952, EXODIAB, The Ernfors Foundation, The Thurings Foundation and the Science for Life Laboratory.
PXD050015	38943808	Follicular fluid-derived exosomal HMOX1 promotes granulosa cell ferroptosis involved in follicular atresia in geese (Anser cygnoides). 	PRM analysis of goose follicular fluid exosomes	PRM, follicular fluid exosomes, goose	The proliferation and death of granulosa cells (GCs) in poultry play a decisive role in follicular fate and egg production. The follicular fluid (FF) contains a variety of nutrients and genetic substances to ensure the communication between follicular cells. Exosomes, as a new intercellular communication, could carry and transport the proteins, RNA, and lipids to react on GCs, which had been found in FF of various domestic animals. Whether exosomes of FF in poultry play a similar role is unclear. In this study, geese, a poultry with low egg production, were chosen, and the effect of FF exosomes on the proliferation and death of GCs was investigated. Firstly, there were not only a large number of healthy small yellow follicles (HSYFs) but also some atresia small yellow follicles (ASYFs) in the egg-laying stage. Also, the GC layers of ASYFs became loose interconnections, inward detachment, and diminished survival rate than that of HSYFs. Besides, compared to HSYFs, the contents of E2, P4, and the mRNA expression levels of ferroptosis-related genes GPX4, FPN1, and FTH1 were significantly decreased, while COX2, NCOA4, VDAC3 mRNA were significantly increased, and the structure of mitochondrial cristae disappeared and the outer membrane broke in the GC layers of ASYFs. Moreover, the ROS, MDA, and oxidation levels in the GC layers of ASYFs were significantly higher than those of HSYFs. All these hinted that ferroptosis might result in a large number of GCs death and involvement in follicle atresia. Secondly, FF exosomes were isolated from HSYFs and ASYFs, respectively, and identified by TEM, NTA, and detection of exosome marker proteins. Also, we found the exosomes were phagocytic by GCs by tracking CM-Dil. Moreover, the addition of ASYF-FF exosomes significantly elevated the MDA content, Fe(2+) levels, and the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) in GCs, thus significantly inhibiting the proliferation of GCs, which was restored by the ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1. Thirdly, the proteomic sequencing was performed between FF-derived exosomes of HSYFs and ASYFs. We obtained 1615 differentially expressed proteins, which were mainly enriched in the protein transport and ferroptosis pathways. Among them, HMOX1 was enriched in the ferroptosis pathway based on differential protein-protein interaction network analysis. Finally, the role of HMOX1 in regulating ferroptosis in GCs was further explored. The highly expressed HMOX1 was observed in the exosomes of ASYF-FF than that in HSYF-FF. Overexpression of HMOX1 increased ATG5, LC3II, and NCOA4 expression and reduced the expression of FTH1, GPX4, PCBP2, FPN1 in the ferroptosis pathway, also promoted intracellular Fe(2+) accumulation and MDA surge, which drove ferroptosis in GCs. The effects of HMOX1 on ferroptosis could be blocked by its inhibitor Znpp. Taken together, the important protein HMOX1 was identified in FF, which could be delivered to GCs via exosomes, triggering ferroptosis and thus determining the fate of follicles.
PXD046818	38944645	Metaproteomic portrait of the healthy human gut microbiota. 	Metaproteomic portrait of the healthy human gut microbiota	functions, gut microbiota, healthy human gut, metaproteomics, stool	Gut metaproteomics can provide direct evidence of microbial functions actively expressed in the colonic environments, contributing to clarify the role of the gut microbiota in human physiology. In this study, we re-analyzed 10 fecal metaproteomics datasets of healthy individuals from different continents and countries, with the aim of identifying stable and variable gut microbial functions and defining the contribution of specific bacterial taxa to the main metabolic pathways. The "core" metaproteome included 182 microbial functions and 83 pathways that were identified in all individuals analyzed. Several enzymes involved in glucose and pyruvate metabolism, along with glutamate dehydrogenase, acetate kinase, elongation factors G and Tu and DnaK, were the proteins with the lowest abundance variability in the cohorts under study. On the contrary, proteins involved in chemotaxis, response to stress and cell adhesion were among the most variable functions. Random-effect meta-analysis of correlation trends between taxa, functions and pathways revealed key ecological and molecular associations within the gut microbiota. The contribution of specific bacterial taxa to the main biological processes was also investigated, finding that Faecalibacterium is the most stable genus and the top contributor to anti-inflammatory butyrate production in the healthy gut microbiota. Active production of other mucosal immunomodulators facilitating host tolerance was observed, including Roseburia flagellin and lipopolysaccharide biosynthetic enzymes expressed by members of Bacteroidota. Our study provides a detailed picture of the healthy human gut microbiota, contributing to unveil its functional mechanisms and its relationship with nutrition, immunity, and environmental stressors.
PXD042258	38945450	In-Depth Mapping of DNA-PKcs Signaling Uncovers Non-Canonical Features of Its Kinase Specificity. 	In depth mapping of DNA-PKcs and ATM kinase signaling responses to double strand breaks.	Abelson Pre-B cells, DNA repair, G1 arrest, Ionizing Radiation	DNA-PKcs is a DNA damage sensor kinase with established roles in DNA double-strand break repair via non-homologous end joining. Recent studies have revealed additional roles of DNA-PKcs in the regulation of transcription, translation, and DNA replication. However, the substrates through which DNA-PKcs regulates these processes remain largely undefined. Here we utilized quantitative phosphoproteomics to generate a high coverage map of DNA-PKcs signaling in response to ionizing radiation and mapped its interplay with the ATM kinase. Beyond the detection of the canonical S/T-Q phosphorylation motif, we uncovered a non-canonical mode of DNA-PKcs signaling targeting S/T-psi-D/E motifs. Sequence and structural analyses of the DNA-PKcs substrate recognition pocket revealed unique features compared to closely related PIKK kinases that may explain its broader substrate preference. These findings expand the repertoire of DNA-PKcs and ATM substrates while establishing a novel preferential phosphorylation motif for DNA-PKcs.
PXD051952	38947246	Identifying Ciliary Proteins in Mammalian Retinas using a Gentle Extraction Method. 	Identifying Cilary Proteins in Bovine Retinas using a Gentile Extraction Method	Bovine, photoreceptor, primary cilia, retina, rod outer segment	Mutations in retinal primary cilia are responsible for human blindness but the mechanisms are not fully understood (Wheway et al., 2014). Characterizing the proteome of an organelle such as cilia, is a fruitful way to understand its function but methods often require considerable sample quantities. Here we develop a method to isolate the primary cilia of photoreceptor cells from bovine retinas. Through LC/MS/MS proteomics analysis we identify proteins enriched for cilia function including ciliopathy disease. This study shows our method can be used to isolate retinal primary cilia to obtain sufficient quantities of native protein samples.
PXD050881	38948405	DATA in BRIEF of: Adaptative mechanisms indicated by placental protein expression changes in high-altitude Tibetan women during vaginal delivery. 	4D-SmartDIA quantitative protein set of 30 different altitudehuman placental tissue samples	Tibetan, high altitude adaptation	Over a period of 30,000 to 40,000 years, high-altitude Tibetans have physiologically and genetically adapted to conditions such as hypoxia, low temperature, and high-intensity ultraviolet radiation. Based on the unique physiological and morphological characteristics of the Tibetan people, they have outstanding hypoxia adaptation skills and can continue to thrive in plateau hypoxia. The placenta of high-altitude Tibetans is protected from oxidative stress during delivery; however, little is known about changes in placental protein expression during vaginal delivery. In this study, we aimed to reveal these adaptive mechanisms by studying changes in placental protein expression during vaginal delivery in high-altitude Tibetans, low-altitude Tibetans, and low-altitude Han populations. Studying the changing mechanisms of maternal responses to hypoxia at high altitudes can reveal the molecular mechanisms of maternal and fetal adaptation to hypoxia at high altitudes and provide theories for preventing and treating maternal hypoxia and intrauterine growth and development restriction caused by other diseases.
PXD052720	38949184	Integrated serum proteomic and N-glycoproteomic characterization of dengue patients. 	Serum proteomic  characterization of dengue patients	dengue	Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne viral disease caused by the dengue virus (DENV). It poses a public health threat globally and, while most people with dengue have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic, approximately 5% of affected individuals develop severe disease and need hospital care. However, knowledge of the molecular mechanisms underlying dengue infection and the interaction between the virus and its host remains limited. In the present study, we performed a quantitative proteomic and N-glycoproteomic analysis of serum from 19 patients with dengue and 11 healthy people. The results revealed distinct proteomic and N-glycoproteomic landscapes between the two groups. Notably, we report for the first time the changes in the serum N glycosylation pattern following dengue infection and provide abundant information on glycoproteins, glycosylation sites, and intact N-glycopeptides using recently developed site-specific glycoproteomic approaches. Furthermore, a series of key functional pathways in proteomic and N-glycoproteomic were identified. Collectively, our findings significantly improve understanding of host and DENV interactions and the general pathogenesis and pathology of DENV, laying a foundation for functional studies of glycosylation and glycan structures in dengue infection.
PXD051195	38951609	LINE-1 RNA triggers matrix formation in bone cells via a PKR-mediated inflammatory response. 	LINE-1 RNA triggers matrix formation in bone cells via a PKR-mediated inflammatory response	PKR, exosomes, transposable elements	Transposable elements (TEs) are mobile genetic modules of viral derivation that have been co-opted to become modulators of mammalian gene expression. TEs are a major source of endogenous dsRNAs, signaling molecules able to coordinate inflammatory responses in various physiological processes. Here, we provide evidence for a positive involvement of TEs in inflammation-driven bone repair and mineralization. In newly fractured mice bone, we observed an early transient upregulation of repeats occurring concurrently with the initiation of the inflammatory stage. In human bone biopsies, analysis revealed a significant correlation between repeats expression, mechanical stress and bone mineral density. We investigated a potential link between LINE-1 (L1) expression and bone mineralization by delivering a synthetic L1 RNA to osteoporotic patient-derived mesenchymal stem cells and observed a dsRNA-triggered protein kinase (PKR)-mediated stress response that led to strongly increased mineralization. This response was associated with a strong and transient inflammation, accompanied by a global translation attenuation induced by eIF2alpha phosphorylation. We demonstrated that L1 transfection reshaped the secretory profile of osteoblasts, triggering a paracrine activity that stimulated the mineralization of recipient cells.
PXD050257	38951789	Interplay between photosynthetic electron flux and organic carbon sinks in sucrose-excreting Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 revealed by omics approaches. 	Absence of Flv3 results in metabolic and bioenergetic rearrangements towards mixotrophy in engineered sucrose-excreting Synechocystis sp. PCC6803	Synechocystis, photosynthesis, respiration, sucrose production, trophic growth	BACKGROUND: Advancing the engineering of photosynthesis-based prokaryotic cell factories is important for sustainable chemical production and requires a deep understanding of the interplay between bioenergetic and metabolic pathways. Rearrangements in photosynthetic electron flow to increase the efficient use of the light energy for carbon fixation must be balanced with a strong carbon sink to avoid photoinhibition. In the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, the flavodiiron protein Flv3 functions as an alternative electron acceptor of photosystem I and represents an interesting engineering target for reorganizing electron flow in attempts to enhance photosynthetic CO2 fixation and increase production yield. RESULTS: We have shown that inactivation of Flv3 in engineered sucrose-excreting Synechocystis (S02:Deltaflv3) induces a transition from photoautotrophic sucrose production to mixotrophic growth sustained by sucrose re-uptake and the formation of intracellular carbon sinks such as glycogen and polyhydroxybutyrate. The growth of S02:Deltaflv3 exceeds that of the sucrose-producing strain (S02) and demonstrates unforeseen proteomic and metabolomic changes over the course of the nine-day cultivation. In the absence of Flv3, a down-regulation of proteins related to photosynthetic light reactions and CO2 assimilation occurred concomitantly with up-regulation of those related to glycolytic pathways, before any differences in sucrose production between S02 and S02:Deltaflv3 strains were observed. Over time, increased sucrose degradation in S02:Deltaflv3 led to the upregulation of respiratory pathway components, such as the plastoquinone reductase complexes NDH-11 and NDH-2 and the terminal respiratory oxidases Cyd and Cox, which transfer electrons to O2. While glycolytic metabolism is significantly up-regulated in S02:Deltaflv3 to provide energy for the cell, the accumulation of intracellular storage compounds and the increase in respiration serve as indirect sinks for photosynthetic electrons. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that the presence of strong carbon sink in the engineered sucrose-producing Synechocystis S02 strain, operating under high light, high CO2 and salt stress, cannot compensate for the lack of Flv3 by directly balancing the light transducing source and carbon fixing sink reactions. Instead, the cells immediately sense the imbalance, leading to extensive reprogramming of cellular bioenergetic, metabolic and ion transport pathways that favor mixotrophic growth rather than enhancing photoautotrophic sucrose production.
PXD052604	38952575	CREB3 suppresses hepatocellular carcinoma progression by depressing AKT signaling through competitively binding with insulin receptor and transcriptionally activating RNA-binding motif protein 38. 	CREB3 suppresses hepatocellular carcinoma progression by depressing AKT signaling through competitively binding with INSR and transcriptionally activating RBM38	AKT signaling, Hepatocellular carcinoma, RNA-binding motif protein 38, cAMP responsive element binding protein 3, insulin receptor	cAMP responsive element binding protein 3 (CREB3), belonging to bZIP family, was reported to play multiple roles in various cancers, but its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still unclear. cAMP responsive element binding protein 3 like 3 (CREB3L3), another member of bZIP family, was thought to be transcription factor (TF) to regulate hepatic metabolism. Nevertheless, except for being TFs, other function of bZIP family were poorly understood. In this study, we found CREB3 inhibited growth and metastasis of HCC in vitro and in vivo. RNA sequencing indicated CREB3 regulated AKT signaling to influence HCC progression. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed CREB3 interacted with insulin receptor (INSR). Mechanistically, CREB3 suppressed AKT phosphorylation by inhibiting the interaction of INSR with insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1). In our study, CREB3 was firstly proved to affect activation of substrates by interacting with tyrosine kinase receptor. Besides, CREB3 could act as a TF to transactivate RNA-binding motif protein 38 (RBM38) expression, leading to suppressed AKT phosphorylation. Rescue experiments further confirmed the independence between the two functional manners. In conclusion, CREB3 acted as a tumor suppressor in HCC, which inhibited AKT phosphorylation through independently interfering interaction of INSR with IRS1, and transcriptionally activating RBM38.
PXD048688	38954486	Inflammation primes the murine kidney for recovery by activating AZIN1 adenosine-to-inosine editing. 	Inflammation primes the kidney for recovery by activating AZIN1 A-to-I editing 	HEK293T	The progression of kidney disease varies among individuals, but a general methodology to quantify disease timelines is lacking. Particularly challenging is the task of determining the potential for recovery from acute kidney injury following various insults. Here, we report that quantitation of post-transcriptional adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing offers a distinct genome-wide signature, enabling the delineation of disease trajectories in the kidney. A well-defined murine model of endotoxemia permitted the identification of the origin and extent of A-to-I editing, along with temporally discrete signatures of double-stranded RNA stress and Adenosine Deaminase isoform switching. We found that A-to-I editing of Antizyme Inhibitor 1 (AZIN1), a positive regulator of polyamine biosynthesis, serves as a particularly useful temporal landmark during endotoxemia. Our data indicate that AZIN1 A-to-I editing, triggered by preceding inflammation, primes the kidney and activates endogenous recovery mechanisms. By comparing genetically modified human cell lines and mice locked in either A-to-I edited or uneditable states, we uncovered that AZIN1 A-to-I editing not only enhances polyamine biosynthesis but also engages glycolysis and nicotinamide biosynthesis to drive the recovery phenotype. Our findings implicate that quantifying AZIN1 A-to-I editing could potentially identify individuals who have transitioned to an endogenous recovery phase. This phase would reflect their past inflammation and indicate their potential for future recovery.
PXD052949	38954770	mTORC1-driven protein translation correlates with clinical benefit of capivasertib within a genetically preselected cohort of PIK3CA-altered tumours. 	mTORC1-driven protein translation correlates with clinical benefit of capivasertib within a genetically preselected cohort of PIK3CA-altered tumours	PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway in cancer, breast cancer, capivasertib (AZD5363), genetic mutations, global proteomics, gynecological cancer, precision medicine, targeted proteomics, translational control, tyrosine kinase inhibitors	Capivasertib is a potent selective inhibitor of AKT. It was recently FDA-approved in combination with fulvestrant to treat HR+, HER2-negative breast cancers with certain genetic alteration(s) activating the PI3K pathway. In Phase I trials, heavily pre-treated patients with tumours selected for activating PI3K pathway mutations treated with capivasertib monotherapy demonstrated objective response rates of <30%. We investigated the proteomic profile associated with capivasertib response in genetically pre-selected patients and cancer cell lines. We analyzed samples from 16 PIK3CA-mutated patient tumours collected prior to capivasertib monotherapy in the Phase I trial. PI3K pathway proteins were precisely quantified with immuno-MALDI-MS. Global proteomic profiles were also obtained. Patients were classified according to response to capivasertib monotherapy: "clinical benefit (CB)" (>=12 weeks without progression, n=7) or "no clinical benefit (NCB)" (progression in <12 weeks, n=9). Proteins that differed between the patient groups were subsequently quantified in AKT1- or PIK3CA-altered breast cancer cell lines with varying capivasertib sensitivity. The measured concentrations of AKT1 and AKT2 varied among the PIK3CA-mutated tumours but did not differ between the CB and NCB groups. However, analysis of the global proteome data showed that translational activity was higher in tumours of the NCB vs. CB group. When reproducibly quantified by validated LC-MRM-MS assays, the same proteins of interest similarly distinguished between capivasertib-sensitive vs. -resistant cell lines. The results provide further evidence that increased mTORC1-driven translation functions as a mechanism of resistance to capivasertib monotherapy. Protein concentrations may offer additional insights for patient selection for capivasertib, even among genetically pre-selected patients.
PXD052807	38956074	Semaphorin 3C (Sema3C) reshapes stromal microenvironment to promote hepatocellular carcinoma progression. 	Semaphorin 3C (Sema3C) reshapes stromal microenvironment to promote hepatocellular carcinoma progression	CSC, HCC, Sema3C	More than 90% of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cases develop in the presence of fibrosis or cirrhosis, making the tumor microenvironment (TME) of HCC distinctive due to the intricate interplay between cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and cancer stem cells (CSCs), which collectively regulate HCC progression. However, the mechanisms through which CSCs orchestrate the dynamics of the tumor stroma during HCC development remain elusive. Our study unveils a significant upregulation of Sema3C in fibrotic liver, HCC tissues, peripheral blood of HCC patients, as well as sorafenib-resistant tissues and cells, with its overexpression correlating with the acquisition of stemness properties in HCC. We further identify NRP1 and ITGB1 as pivotal functional receptors of Sema3C, activating downstream AKT/Gli1/c-Myc signaling pathways to bolster HCC self-renewal and tumor initiation. Additionally, HCC cells-derived Sema3C facilitated extracellular matrix (ECM) contraction and collagen deposition in vivo, while also promoting the proliferation and activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Mechanistically, Sema3C interacted with NRP1 and ITGB1 in HSCs, activating downstream NF-kB signaling, thereby stimulating the release of IL-6 and upregulating HMGCR expression, consequently enhancing cholesterol synthesis in HSCs. Furthermore, CAF-secreted TGF-beta1 activates AP1 signaling to augment Sema3C expression in HCC cells, establishing a positive feedback loop that accelerates HCC progression. Notably, blockade of Sema3C effectively inhibits tumor growth and sensitizes HCC cells to sorafenib in vivo. In sum, our findings spotlight Sema3C as a novel biomarker facilitating the crosstalk between CSCs and stroma during hepatocarcinogenesis, thereby offering a promising avenue for enhancing treatment efficacy and overcoming drug resistance in HCC.
PXD045342	38956103	A rapid aureochrome opto-switch enables diatom acclimation to dynamic light. 	A rapid transcriptional opto-switch enables diatom acclimation to dynamic light	algae, high light stress	Diatoms often outnumber other eukaryotic algae in the oceans, especially in coastal environments characterized by frequent fluctuations in light intensity. The identities and operational mechanisms of regulatory factors governing diatom acclimation to high light stress remain largely elusive. Here, we identified the AUREO1c protein from the coastal diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum as a crucial regulator of non-photochemical quenching (NPQ), a photoprotective mechanism that dissipates excess energy as heat. AUREO1c detects light stress using a light-oxygen-voltage (LOV) domain and directly activates the expression of target genes, including LI818 genes that encode NPQ effector proteins, via its bZIP DNA-binding domain. In comparison to a kinase-mediated pathway reported in the freshwater green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the AUREO1c pathway exhibits a faster response and enables accumulation of LI818 transcript and protein levels to comparable degrees between continuous high-light and fluctuating-light treatments. We propose that the AUREO1c-LI818 pathway contributes to the resilience of diatoms under dynamic light conditions.
PXD050812	38956386	Major vault protein is part of an extracellular cement material in the Atlantic salmon louse (Lepeophtheirus salmonis). 	Proteomics of extracellular cement material in the Atlantic salmon louse	cement, major vault protein, salmon louse	Major vault protein (MVP) is the main component of the vault complex, which is a highly conserved ribonucleoprotein complex found in most eukaryotic organisms. MVP or vaults have previously been found to be overexpressed in multidrug-resistant cancer cells and implicated in various cellular processes such as cell signaling and innate immunity. The precise function of MVP is, however, poorly understood and its expression and probable function in lower eukaryotes are not well characterized. In this study, we report that the Atlantic salmon louse expresses three full-length MVP paralogues (LsMVP1-3). Furthermore, we extended our search and identified MVP orthologues in several other ecdysozoan species. LsMVPs were shown to be expressed in various tissues at both transcript and protein levels. In addition, evidence for LsMVP to assemble into vaults was demonstrated by performing differential centrifugation. LsMVP was found to be highly expressed in cement, an extracellular material produced by a pair of cement glands in the adult female salmon louse. Cement is important for the formation of egg strings that serve as protective coats for developing embryos. Our results imply a possible novel function of LsMVP as a secretory cement protein. LsMVP may play a role in structural or reproductive functions, although this has to be further investigated.
PXD047231	38956873	Microbe-induced coordination of plant iron-sulfur metabolism enhances high light stress tolerance of Arabidopsis. 	The Role of Microbe-Enhanced Iron-Dependent Redox Metabolism in optimizing photosynthesis under high light stress in Arabidopsis	DIA-MS, beneficial plant-microbe interaction, high light stress	High light stress in subtropical and tropical regions strongly limits agricultural production due to photo-oxidative damage, decreased growth and yield. Here, we investigated whether beneficial microbes can protect plants under high light stress. We found that Enterobacter sp. SA187 (SA187) supports Arabidopsis thaliana growth under high light stress by reducing the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and maintaining photosynthesis. When subjected to high light stress, SA187 triggers dynamic changes in Arabidopsis gene expression related to fortified iron metabolism and redox regulation thereby enhancing the plant anti-oxidative glutathione/glutaredoxin redox system. Genetic analysis shows that SA187-enhanced iron and sulfur metabolism are coordinated by ethylene signaling. In summary, beneficial microbes could be an effective and inexpensive means for enhancing high light stress tolerance in plants.
PXD035337	38957451	Dual role of proliferating cell nuclear antigen monoubiquitination in facilitating Fanconi anemia-mediated interstrand crosslink repair. 	Dual role of PCNA-monoubiquitination in facilitating Fanconi Anemia-mediated interstrand crosslink repair	PCNA ubiquitination, RIME, dna damage tolerance, fanconi anemia, interstrand crosslink repair, mismatch repair	The Fanconi anemia (FA) repair pathway governs repair of highly genotoxic DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) and relies on translesion synthesis (TLS). TLS is facilitated by REV1 or site-specific monoubiquitination of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) (PCNA-Ub) at lysine 164 (K164). A Pcna(K164R/K164R) but not Rev1(-/-) mutation renders mammals hypersensitive to ICLs. Besides the FA pathway, alternative pathways have been associated with ICL repair (1, 2), though the decision making between those remains elusive. To study the dependence and relevance of PCNA-Ub in FA repair, we intercrossed Pcna(K164R/+); Fancg(-/+) mice. A combined mutation (Pcna(K164R/K164R); Fancg(-/-) ) was found embryonically lethal. RNA-seq of primary double-mutant (DM) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) revealed elevated levels of replication stress-induced checkpoints. To exclude stress-induced confounders, we utilized a Trp53 knock-down to obtain a model to study ICL repair in depth. Regarding ICL-induced cell toxicity, cell cycle arrest, and replication fork progression, single-mutant and DM MEFs were found equally sensitive, establishing PCNA-Ub to be critical for FA-ICL repair. Immunoprecipitation and spectrometry-based analysis revealed an unknown role of PCNA-Ub in excluding mismatch recognition complex MSH2/MSH6 from being recruited to ICLs. In conclusion, our results uncovered a dual function of PCNA-Ub in ICL repair, i.e. exclude MSH2/MSH6 recruitment to channel the ICL toward canonical FA repair, in addition to its established role in coordinating TLS opposite the unhooked ICL.
PXD050045	38959305	Temporally resolved proteomics identifies nidogen-2 as a cotarget in pancreatic cancer that modulates fibrosis and therapy response. 	Proteomic analysis Carcinoma associated fibroblasts (CAFs) following genetic manipulation of NID2 expression	Carcinoma associated fibroblasts, NID2	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by increasing fibrosis, which can enhance tumor progression and spread. Here, we undertook an unbiased temporal assessment of the matrisome of the highly metastatic KPC (Pdx1-Cre, LSL-Kras(G12D/+), LSL-Trp53(R172H/+)) and poorly metastatic KP(fl)C (Pdx1-Cre, LSL-Kras(G12D/+), Trp53(fl/+)) genetically engineered mouse models of pancreatic cancer using mass spectrometry proteomics. Our assessment at early-, mid-, and late-stage disease reveals an increased abundance of nidogen-2 (NID2) in the KPC model compared to KP(fl)C, with further validation showing that NID2 is primarily expressed by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Using biomechanical assessments, second harmonic generation imaging, and birefringence analysis, we show that NID2 reduction by CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) in CAFs reduces stiffness and matrix remodeling in three-dimensional models, leading to impaired cancer cell invasion. Intravital imaging revealed improved vascular patency in live NID2-depleted tumors, with enhanced response to gemcitabine/Abraxane. In orthotopic models, NID2 CRISPRi tumors had less liver metastasis and increased survival, highlighting NID2 as a potential PDAC cotarget.
PXD040133	38959316	ZBTB21 suppresses CRE-mediated transcription to impair synaptic function in Down syndrome. 	Proteomic analysis on the role of ZBT21	DNA pulldown, ZBT21, cAMP response element	Down syndrome (DS) is the most common chromosomal disorder and a major cause of intellectual disability. The genetic etiology of DS is the extra copy of chromosome 21 (HSA21)-encoded genes; however, the contribution of specific HSA21 genes to DS pathogenesis remains largely unknown. Here, we identified ZBTB21, an HSA21-encoded zinc-finger protein, as a transcriptional repressor in the regulation of synaptic function. We found that normalization of the Zbtb21 gene copy number in DS mice corrected deficits in cognitive performance, synaptic function, and gene expression. Moreover, we demonstrated that ZBTB21 binds to canonical cAMP-response element (CRE) DNA and that its binding to CRE could be competitive with CRE-binding factors such as CREB. ZBTB21 represses CRE-dependent gene expression and results in the negative regulation of synaptic plasticity, learning and memory. Together, our results identify ZBTB21 as a CRE-binding protein and repressor in cAMP-dependent gene regulation, contributing to cognitive defects in DS.
PXD051606	38960128	Deletion of miPEP in adipocytes protects against obesity and insulin resistance by boosting muscle metabolism. 	Deletion of the mitochondrial peptidase miPEP in adipose tissue protects against obesity and insulin resistance by increasing adaptive thermogenesis	adipose, insulin resistance, miPEP, mitochondria, thermogenesis	Mitochondria facilitate thousands of biochemical reactions, covering a broad spectrum of anabolic and catabolic processes. Here we demonstrate that the adipocyte mitochondrial proteome is markedly altered across multiple models of insulin resistance and reveal a consistent decrease in the level of the mitochondrial processing peptidase miPEP. To experimentally test this observation, we generated adipocyte-specific miPEP knockout mice to interrogate its role in the aetiology of insulin resistance. We observed a strong phenotype characterised by enhanced insulin sensitivity and reduced adiposity, despite normal food intake and physical activity. Strikingly, these phenotypes vanished when mice were housed at thermoneutrality, suggesting that metabolic protection conferred by miPEP deletion hinges upon a thermoregulatory process. Tissue specific analysis of miPEP deficient mice revealed an increment in muscle metabolism, and upregulation of the protein FBP2 that is involved in ATP hydrolysis in the gluconeogenic pathway. These findings suggest that miPEP deletion initiates a compensatory increase in skeletal muscle metabolism acting as a protective mechanism against diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance.
PXD050906	38961290	NBS1 lactylation is required for efficient DNA repair and chemotherapy resistance. 	Systematic profiling of lysine lactylation proteome reveals distinct changes in lactylation between the parental AGS cells and cisplatin-resistant AGS cells	Lysine lactylation	The Warburg effect is a hallmark of cancer that refers to the preference of cancer cells to metabolize glucose anaerobically rather than aerobically(1,2). This results in substantial accumulation of lacate, the end product of anaerobic glycolysis, in cancer cells(3). However, how cancer metabolism affects chemotherapy response and DNA repair in general remains incompletely understood. Here we report that lactate-driven lactylation of NBS1 promotes homologous recombination (HR)-mediated DNA repair. Lactylation of NBS1 at lysine 388 (K388) is essential for MRE11-RAD50-NBS1 (MRN) complex formation and the accumulation of HR repair proteins at the sites of DNA double-strand breaks. Furthermore, we identify TIP60 as the NBS1 lysine lactyltransferase and the 'writer' of NBS1 K388 lactylation, and HDAC3 as the NBS1 de-lactylase. High levels of NBS1 K388 lactylation predict poor patient outcome of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and lactate reduction using either genetic depletion of lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) or stiripentol, a lactate dehydrogenase A inhibitor used clinically for anti-epileptic treatment, inhibited NBS1 K388 lactylation, decreased DNA repair efficacy and overcame resistance to chemotherapy. In summary, our work identifies NBS1 lactylation as a critical mechanism for genome stability that contributes to chemotherapy resistance and identifies inhibition of lactate production as a promising therapeutic cancer strategy.
PXD064316	38961535	Proteomic Stratification of Prognosis and Treatment Options for Small Cell Lung Cancer. 	Proteomic stratification of prognosis and treatment options for small cell lung cancer	Small cell lung cancer, chemotherapy response, immune infiltration, prognosis	Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a highly malignant and heterogeneous cancer with limited therapeutic options and prognosis prediction models. Here, we analyzed formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples of surgical resections by proteomic profiling, and stratified SCLC into three proteomic subtypes (S-I, S-II, and S-III) with distinct clinical outcomes and chemotherapy responses. The proteomic subtyping was an independent prognostic factor and performed better than current tumor-node-metastasis or Veterans Administration Lung Study Group staging methods. The subtyping results could be further validated using FFPE biopsy samples from an independent cohort, extending the analysis to both surgical and biopsy samples. The signatures of the S-II subtype in particular suggested potential benefits from immunotherapy. Differentially overexpressed proteins in S-III, the worst prognostic subtype, allowed us to nominate potential therapeutic targets, indicating that patient selection may bring new hope for previously failed clinical trials. Finally, analysis of an independent cohort of SCLC patients who had received immunotherapy validated the prediction that the S-II patients had better progression-free survival and overall survival after first-line immunotherapy. Collectively, our study provides the rationale for future clinical investigations to validate the current findings for more accurate prognosis prediction and precise treatments.
PXD051634	38963044	Inhibition of FBP1 expression by KMT5A through TWIST1 methylation is one of the mechanisms leading to chemoresistance in breast cancer. 	Inhibition of FBP1 expression by KMT5A through TWIST1 methylation is one of the mechanisms leading to chemoresistance in breast cancer	FBP1, KMT5A, breast cancer, chemoresistance, glucose metabolism	Lysine methyltransferase 5A (KMT5A) is the sole mammalian enzyme known to catalyse the mono-methylation of histone H4 lysine 20 and non-histone proteins such as p53, which are involved in the occurrence and progression of numerous cancers. The present study aimed to determine the function of KMT5A in inducing docetaxel (DTX) resistance in patients with breast carcinoma by evaluating glucose metabolism and the underlying mechanism involved. The upregulation or downregulation of KMT5A-related proteins was examined after KMT5A knockdown in breast cancer (BRCA) cells by Tandem Mass Tag proteomics. Through differential protein expression and pathway enrichment analysis, the upregulated key gluconeogenic enzyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1) was discovered. Loss of FBP1 expression is closely related to the development and prognosis of cancers. A dual-luciferase reporter gene assay confirmed that KMT5A inhibited the expression of FBP1 and that overexpression of FBP1 could enhance the chemotherapeutic sensitivity to DTX through the suppression of KMT5A expression. The KMT5A inhibitor UNC0379 was used to verify that DTX resistance induced by KMT5A through the inhibition of FBP1 depended on the methylase activity of KMT5A. According to previous literature and interaction network structure, it was revealed that KMT5A acts on the transcription factor twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 (TWIST1). Then, it was verified that TWSIT1 promoted the expression of FBP1 by using a dual-luciferase reporter gene experiment. KMT5A induces chemotherapy resistance in BRCA cells by promoting cell proliferation and glycolysis. After the knockdown of the KMT5A gene, the FBP1 related to glucose metabolism in BRCA was upregulated. KMT5A knockdown expression and FBP1 overexpression synergistically inhibit cell proliferation and block cells in the G2/M phase. KMT5A inhibits the expression of FBP1 by methylating TWIST1 and weakening its promotion of FBP1 transcription. In conclusion, KMT5A was shown to affect chemotherapy resistance by regulating the cell cycle and positively regulate glycolysis-mediated chemotherapy resistance by inhibiting the transcription of FBP1 in collaboration with TWIST1. KMT5A may be a potential therapeutic target for chemotherapy resistance in BRCA.
PXD042126	38963761	Lipid-associated macrophages reshape BAT cell identity in obesity. 	Lipid-Associated Macrophages Reshape BAT Cell Identity in Obesity	BAT, Lipid, Macrophages, Obesity	Obesity and type 2 diabetes cause a loss in brown adipose tissue (BAT) activity, but the molecular mechanisms that drive BAT cell remodeling remain largely unexplored. Using a multilayered approach, we comprehensively mapped a reorganization in BAT cells. We uncovered a subset of macrophages as lipid-associated macrophages (LAMs), which were massively increased in genetic and dietary model of BAT expansion. LAMs participate in this scenario by capturing extracellular vesicles carrying damaged lipids and mitochondria released from metabolically stressed brown adipocytes. CD36 scavenger receptor drove LAM phenotype, and CD36-deficient LAMs were able to increase brown fat genes in adipocytes. LAMs released transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1), which promoted the loss of brown adipocyte identity through aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (Aldh1a1) induction. These findings unfold cell dynamic changes in BAT during obesity and identify LAMs as key responders to tissue metabolic stress and drivers of loss of brown adipocyte identity.
PXD043284	38965210	Transposable elements-mediated recruitment of KDM1A epigenetically silences HNF4A expression to promote hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Immunoprecipitates of KDM1A in HepG2 cells with stably overexpressed KDM1A	HepG2, KDM1A	Transposable elements (TEs) contribute to gene expression regulation by acting as cis-regulatory elements that attract transcription factors and epigenetic regulators. This research aims to explore the functional and clinical implications of transposable element-related molecular events in hepatocellular carcinoma, focusing on the mechanism through which liver-specific accessible TEs (liver-TEs) regulate adjacent gene expression. Our findings reveal that the expression of HNF4A is inversely regulated by proximate liver-TEs, which facilitates liver cancer cell proliferation. Mechanistically, liver-TEs are predominantly occupied by the histone demethylase, KDM1A. KDM1A negatively influences the methylation of histone H3 Lys4 (H3K4) of liver-TEs, resulting in the epigenetic silencing of HNF4A expression. The suppression of HNF4A mediated by KDM1A promotes liver cancer cell proliferation. In conclusion, this study uncovers a liver-TE/KDM1A/HNF4A regulatory axis that promotes liver cancer growth and highlights KDM1A as a promising therapeutic target. Our findings provide insight into the transposable element-related molecular mechanisms underlying liver cancer progression.
PXD050540	38965296	Proteomic analysis of Rana sylvatica reveals differentially expressed proteins in liver in response to anoxia, dehydration or freezing stress. 	Proteomic Analysis of Rana sylvatica Reveals Differentially Expressed Proteins in Liver in Response to Anoxia, Dehydration or Freezing Stress	LC-MS	Ectothermic animals that live in seasonally cold regions must adapt to seasonal variation and specific environmental conditions. During the winter, some amphibians hibernate on land and encounter limited environmental water, deficient oxygen, and extremely low temperatures that can cause the whole body freezing. These stresses trigger physiological and biochemical adaptations in amphibians that allow them to survive. Rana sylvatica, commonly known as the wood frog, shows excellent freeze tolerance. They can slow their metabolic activity to a near halt and endure freezing of 65-70% of their total body water as extracellular ice during hibernation, returning to normal when the temperatures rise again. To investigate the molecular adaptations of freeze-tolerant wood frogs, a comprehensive proteomic analysis was performed on frog liver tissue after anoxia, dehydration, or freezing exposures using a label-free LC-MS/MS proteomic approach. Quantitative proteomic analysis revealed that 87, 118, and 86 proteins were significantly upregulated in dehydrated, anoxic, and frozen groups, suggesting potential protective functions. The presence of three upregulated enzymes, glutathione S-transferase (GST), aldolase (ALDOA), and sorbitol dehydrogenase (SORD), was also validated. For all enzymes, the specific enzymatic activity was significantly higher in the livers of frozen and anoxic groups than in the controls. This study reveals that GST, ALDOA, and SORD might participate in the freeze tolerance mechanism by contributing to regulating cellular detoxification and energy metabolism.
PXD052342	38965447	TFEB controls syncytiotrophoblast formation and hormone production in placenta. 	TFEB controls syncytiotrophoblast formation and hormones production in placenta	TFEB, placenta, suncytiotrophoblast	TFEB, a bHLH-leucine zipper transcription factor belonging to the MiT/TFE family, globally modulates cell metabolism by regulating autophagy and lysosomal functions. Remarkably, loss of TFEB in mice causes embryonic lethality due to severe defects in placentation associated with aberrant vascularization and resulting hypoxia. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this phenotype has remained elusive. By integrating in vivo analyses with multi-omics approaches and functional assays, we have uncovered an unprecedented function for TFEB in promoting the formation of a functional syncytiotrophoblast in the placenta. Our findings demonstrate that constitutive loss of TFEB in knock-out mice is associated with defective formation of the syncytiotrophoblast layer. Indeed, using in vitro models of syncytialization, we demonstrated that TFEB translocates into the nucleus during syncytiotrophoblast formation and binds to the promoters of crucial placental genes, including genes encoding fusogenic proteins (Syncytin-1 and Syncytin-2) and enzymes involved in steroidogenic pathways, such as CYP19A1, the rate-limiting enzyme for the synthesis of 17beta-Estradiol (E2). Conversely, TFEB depletion impairs both syncytial fusion and endocrine properties of syncytiotrophoblast, as demonstrated by a significant decrease in the secretion of placental hormones and E2 production. Notably, restoration of TFEB expression resets syncytiotrophoblast identity. Our findings identify that TFEB controls placental development and function by orchestrating both the transcriptional program underlying trophoblast fusion and the acquisition of endocrine function, which are crucial for the bioenergetic requirements of embryonic development.
PXD053149	38966226	Assessment of the effect of 21-day head-down bed rest on the cardiovascular system by blood protein composition. 	Assessment of the effect of 21-day head-down bed rest on the cardiovascular system by blood protein composition	blood, cardiovascular system, head-down bed rest, retinol-binding protein	Head-down bed rest (HDBR) is one of the models of the physiological effects of weightlessness used, among other things, to assess the effect of hypokinesia on the physiological systems of the human body and, first of all, on the cardiovascular system. The aim of the work was to study the effect of 21 days of HDBR factors on the cardiovascular system based on blood proteomic profile data. It was revealed that HDBR conditions led to an increase in the levels of proteins of the complement and the coagulation cascade systems, platelet degranulation, fibrinolysis, acute phase proteins, post-translational modification of proteins, retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4), apolipoprotein B, which are associated with cardiovascular diseases, and other proteins that affect the functions of endothelial cells. Blood levels of proteins involved in cytoskeletal remodelling, oxygen transport, heme catabolism, etc. have been shown to decrease during HDBR.
PXD049013	38966671	Target identification of usnic acid in bacterial and human cells. 	Target identification of usnic acid in bacterial and human cells	ABPP, Usnic acid	Usnic acid is a natural product with versatile biological activities against various organisms. Here, we utilise a chemical proteomic strategy to gain insights into its target scope in bacterial and human cells. First, we excluded DNA binding as a major reason for its antibacterial activity, and second, we commenced with target profiling, which unravelled several metal cofactor-dependent enzymes in both species indicating a polypharmacological mode of action. Interestingly, our synthetic studies revealed a selectivity switch at usnic acid, which maintains antibacterial activity but lacks strong cytotoxic effects.
PXD045660	38966981	HBS1L deficiency causes retinal dystrophy in a child and a mouse model associated with defective development of photoreceptor cells. 	HBS1L-deficient retinal proteomics analysis revealing critical role of ribosomal rescue factor in the photoreceptor cell development	HBS1L, retinal degeneration, ribosomal rescue	Inherited retinal diseases encompass a genetically diverse group of conditions caused by mutations in genes critical to retinal function, including handful of ribosome-associated genes. This study focuses on HBS1L gene which encodes for HBS1-like translational GTPase crucial for ribosomal rescue. We have reported a female child carrying biallelic HBS1L variants, manifesting with poor growth and neurodevelopmental delay. Here we describe the ophthalmologic findings in the patient and Hbs1ltm1a/tm1a hypomorph mice and describe the associated microscopic and molecular perturbations. The patient has impaired visual function, showing dampened amplitudes of a- and b-waves in both rod- and cone-mediated responses. Hbs1ltm1a/tm1a mice exhibited profound thinning of the entire retina, specifically of the outer photoreceptor layer, due to extensive photoreceptor cell apoptosis. Loss of HBS1L resulted in comprehensive proteomic alterations on mass spectrometry analysis, with 169 proteins increased and 480 decreased including rhodopsin and peripherin 2. GO biological process and GSEA analyses reveal that the downregulated proteins are primarily involved in phototransduction, cilium assembly, and photoreceptor cell development. These findings underscore the importance of ribosomal rescue proteins in maintaining retinal health, particularly in photoreceptor cells.
PXD046785	38966985	The TOPOVIBL meiotic DSB formation protein: new insights from its biochemical and structural characterization. 	TOPOVIBLC25 mouse protein purification from insect cells	Insect cells, MS/MS, testes	The TOPOVIL complex catalyzes the formation of DNA double strand breaks (DSB) that initiate meiotic homologous recombination, an essential step for chromosome segregation and genetic diversity during gamete production. TOPOVIL is composed of two subunits (SPO11 and TOPOVIBL) and is evolutionarily related to the archaeal TopoVI topoisomerase complex. SPO11 is the TopoVIA subunit orthologue and carries the DSB formation catalytic activity. TOPOVIBL shares homology with the TopoVIB ATPase subunit. TOPOVIBL is essential for meiotic DSB formation, but its molecular function remains elusive, partly due to the lack of biochemical studies. Here, we purified TOPOVIBLDeltaC25 and characterized its structure and mode of action in vitro. Our structural analysis revealed that TOPOVIBLDeltaC25 adopts a dynamic conformation in solution and our biochemical study showed that the protein remains monomeric upon incubation with ATP, which correlates with the absence of ATP binding. Moreover, TOPOVIBLDeltaC25 interacted with DNA, with a preference for some geometries, suggesting that TOPOVIBL senses specific DNA architectures. Altogether, our study identified specific TOPOVIBL features that might help to explain how TOPOVIL function evolved toward a DSB formation activity in meiosis.
PXD031714	38966995	Nuclear F-actin assembly on damaged chromatin is regulated by DYRK1A and Spir1 phosphorylation. 	Nuclear F-actin Assembly on Damaged Chromatin is Regulated By DYRK1A and Spir1 Phosphorylation	Actin Dynamics, DSB mobility, DSB repair, DYRK1A, Spir1	Nuclear actin-based movements support DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair. However, molecular determinants that promote filamentous actin (F-actin) formation on the damaged chromatin remain undefined. Here we describe the DYRK1A kinase as a nuclear activity that promotes local F-actin assembly to support DSB mobility and repair, accomplished in part by its targeting of actin nucleator spire homolog 1 (Spir1). Indeed, perturbing DYRK1A-dependent phosphorylation of S482 mis-regulated Spir1 accumulation at damaged-modified chromatin, and led to compromised DSB-associated actin polymerization and attenuated DNA repair. Our findings uncover a role of the DYRK1A-Spir1 axis in nuclear actin dynamics during early DSB responses, and highlight the intricate details of nuclear cytoskeletal network in DSB repair and genome stability maintenance.
PXD048696	38967832	Two-Step Enrichment Facilitates Background Reduction for Proteomic Analysis of Lysosomes. 	Two step enrichment facilitates background reduction for proteomic analysis of lysosomes	HEK 293, Lysosome enrichment, Lysosomes, Superparamagnetic iron oxide particles (SPIONs), TMEM192, organelles	Lysosomes constitute the main degradative compartment of most mammalian cells and are involved in various cellular functions. Most of them are catalyzed by lysosomal proteins, which typically are low abundant, complicating their analysis by mass spectrometry-based proteomics. To increase analytical performance and to enable profiling of lysosomal content, lysosomes are often enriched. Two approaches have gained popularity in recent years, namely, superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) and immunoprecipitation from cells overexpressing a 3xHA-tagged version of TMEM192 (TMEM-IP). The effect of these approaches on the lysosomal proteome has not been investigated to date. We addressed this topic through a combination of both techniques and proteomic analysis of lysosome-enriched fractions. For SPIONs treatment, we identified altered cellular iron homeostasis and moderate changes of the lysosomal proteome. For overexpression of TMEM192, we observed more pronounced effects in lysosomal protein expression, especially for lysosomal membrane proteins and those involved in protein trafficking. Furthermore, we established a combined strategy based on the sequential enrichment of lysosomes with SPIONs and TMEM-IP. This enabled increased purity of lysosome-enriched fractions and, through TMEM-IP-based lysosome enrichment from SPIONs flow-through and eluate fractions, additional insights into the properties of individual approaches. All data are available via ProteomeXchange with PXD048696.
PXD051148	38968027	Repurposed 3D Printer Allows Economical and Programmable Fraction Collection for Proteomics of Nanogram Scale Samples. 	Repurposed 3D Printer Allows Economical and Programmable Fraction Collection for Proteomics of Nanogram Scale Samples 	DDA DIA WWA LC-MS/MS, RNA-binding protein, Two-dimensional peptide separation, phosphoproteome	In this work, we describe the construction and application of a repurposed 3D-printer as a fraction collector. We utilize a nano-LC to ensure minimal volumes and surfaces although any LC can be coupled. The setup operates as a high-pH fractionation system capable of effectively working with nanogram scales of lysate digests. The 2D RP-RP system demonstrated superior proteome coverage over single-shot data-dependent acquisition (DDA) analysis using only 5 ng of human cell lysate digest with performance increasing with increasing amounts of material. We found that the fractionation system allowed over 60% signal recovery at the peptide level and, more importantly, we observed improved protein level intensity coverage, which indicates the complexity reduction afforded by the system outweighs the sample losses endured. The application of data-independent acquisition (DIA) and wide window acquisition (WWA) to fractionated samples allowed nearly 8000 proteins to be identified from 50 ng of the material. The utility of the 2D system was further investigated for phosphoproteomics (>21 000 phosphosites from 50 mug starting material) and pull-down type experiments and showed substantial improvements over single-shot experiments. We show that the 2D RP-RP system is a highly versatile and powerful tool for many proteomics workflows.
PXD047943	38968292	Nucleotide binding to the ATP-cone in anaerobic ribonucleotide reductases allosterically regulates activity by modulating substrate binding. 	Activity modulation in anaerobicribonucleotide reductases: nucleotidebinding: HDX-MS data	HDX-MS, anaerobicribonucleotide reductases	A small, nucleotide-binding domain, the ATP-cone, is found at the N-terminus of most ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) catalytic subunits. By binding adenosine triphosphate (ATP) or deoxyadenosine triphosphate (dATP) it regulates the enzyme activity of all classes of RNR. Functional and structural work on aerobic RNRs has revealed a plethora of ways in which dATP inhibits activity by inducing oligomerisation and preventing a productive radical transfer from one subunit to the active site in the other. Anaerobic RNRs, on the other hand, store a stable glycyl radical next to the active site and the basis for their dATP-dependent inhibition is completely unknown. We present biochemical, biophysical, and structural information on the effects of ATP and dATP binding to the anaerobic RNR from Prevotella copri. The enzyme exists in a dimer-tetramer equilibrium biased towards dimers when two ATP molecules are bound to the ATP-cone and tetramers when two dATP molecules are bound. In the presence of ATP, P. copri NrdD is active and has a fully ordered glycyl radical domain (GRD) in one monomer of the dimer. Binding of dATP to the ATP-cone results in loss of activity and increased dynamics of the GRD, such that it cannot be detected in the cryo-EM structures. The glycyl radical is formed even in the dATP-bound form, but the substrate does not bind. The structures implicate a complex network of interactions in activity regulation that involve the GRD more than 30 Aa away from the dATP molecules, the allosteric substrate specificity site and a conserved but previously unseen flap over the active site. Taken together, the results suggest that dATP inhibition in anaerobic RNRs acts by increasing the flexibility of the flap and GRD, thereby preventing both substrate binding and radical mobilisation.
PXD050193	38969063	Elucidating regulation of polyhydroxyalkanoate metabolism in R. eutropha: Identification of transcriptional regulators from phasin and depolymerase genes. 	MS-analysis of pull downs to elucidate putative transcriptional regulators from phasin and depolymerase genes	Ralstonia eutropha	Despite the ever-growing research interest in polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) as green plastic alternatives, our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms governing PHA synthesis, storage, and degradation in the model organism Ralstonia eutropha remains limited. Given its importance for central carbon metabolism, PHA homeostasis is probably controlled by a complex network of transcriptional regulators. Understanding this fine-tuning is key for developing improved PHA production strains thereby boosting the application of PHAs. We conducted promoter pull-down assays with crude protein extracts from R. eutropha Re2058/pCB113, followed by LC-MS/MS, to identify putative transcriptional regulators involved in the expression control of PHA metabolism, specifically targeting phasin phaP1 and depolymerase phaZ3 and phaZ5 genes. The impact on promoter activity was studied in vivo using beta-galactosidase assays and the most promising candidates were heterologously produced in Escherichia coli and their interaction with the promoters investigated in vitro by Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays. We could show that R. eutropha DNA-binding XRE-family-like protein H16_B1672, specifically binds the phaP1 promoter in vitro with a KD of 175 nM and represses gene expression from this promoter in vivo. Protein H16_B1672 also showed interaction with both depolymerase promoters in vivo and in vitro suggesting a broader role in the regulation of PHA metabolism. Furthermore, in vivo assays revealed that the H-NS-like DNA-binding protein H16_B0227 and the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase PpiB, strongly repress gene expression from PphaP1 and PphaZ3, respectively. In summary, this study provides new insights into the regulation of PHA metabolism in R. eutropha, uncovering specific interactions of novel transcriptional regulators.
PXD052072	38969654	Nicotinamide N-methyltransferase inhibition mimics and boosts exercise-mediated improvements in muscle function in aged mice. 	Aged Mouse Muscle: Sedentary or Exercised Animals with or without Nicotinamide N-methyltransferase Inhibitor Treatment	5A-1MQ, MS2, MS3, RT001, exercise, gastrocnemius, nicotinamide N-methyltransferase inhibitor	Human hallmarks of sarcopenia include muscle weakness and a blunted response to exercise. Nicotinamide N-methyltransferase inhibitors (NNMTis) increase strength and promote the regenerative capacity of aged muscle, thus offering a promising treatment for sarcopenia. Since human hallmarks of sarcopenia are recapitulated in aged (24-month-old) mice, we treated mice from 22 to 24 months of age with NNMTi, intensive exercise, or a combination of both, and compared skeletal muscle adaptations, including grip strength, longitudinal running capacity, plantarflexor peak torque, fatigue, and muscle mass, fiber type, cross-sectional area, and intramyocellular lipid (IMCL) content. Exhaustive proteome and metabolome analyses were completed to identify the molecular mechanisms underlying the measured changes in skeletal muscle pathophysiology. Remarkably, NNMTi-treated aged sedentary mice showed ~ 40% greater grip strength than sedentary controls, while aged exercised mice only showed a 20% increase relative to controls. Importantly, the grip strength improvements resulting from NNMTi treatment and exercise were additive, with NNMTi-treated exercised mice developing a 60% increase in grip strength relative to sedentary controls. NNMTi treatment also promoted quantifiable improvements in IMCL content and, in combination with exercise, significantly increased gastrocnemius fiber CSA. Detailed skeletal muscle proteome and metabolome analyses revealed unique molecular mechanisms associated with NNMTi treatment and distinct molecular mechanisms and cellular processes arising from a combination of NNMTi and exercise relative to those given a single intervention. These studies suggest that NNMTi-based drugs, either alone or combined with exercise, will be beneficial in treating sarcopenia and a wide range of age-related myopathies.
PXD039276	38969866	Cancer cell extravasation requires (i)plectin-mediated delivery of MT1-MMP at invadopodia. 	Cancer Cell Extravasation Requires iPlectin Mediated Choreography of MT1-MMP at Invadopodia	cancer, invadopodia, protein-protein interactions	BACKGROUND: Invadopodia facilitate cancer cell extravasation, but the molecular mechanism whereby invadopodia-specific proteases such as MT1-MMP are called to invadopodia is unclear. METHODS: Mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation were used to identify interactors of MT1-MMP in metastatic breast cancer cells. After identification, siRNA and small molecule inhibitors were used to assess the effect these interactors had on cellular invasiveness. The chicken embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) model was used to assess extravasation and invadopodia formation in vivo. RESULTS: In metastatic breast cancer cells, MT1-MMP was found to associate with plectin, a cytolinker and scaffolding protein. Complex formation between plectin and MT1-MMP launches invadopodia formation, a subtype we termed (i)plectin ((i) = invadopodial). (i)Plectin delivers MT1-MMP to invadopodia and is indispensable for regulating cell surface levels of the enzyme. Genetic depletion of plectin with siRNA reduced invadopodia formation and cell invasion in vitro. In vivo extravasation efficiency assays and intravital imaging revealed (i)plectin to be a key contributor to invadopodia ultrastructure and essential for extravasation. Pharmacologic inhibition of plectin using the small molecule Plecstatin-1 (PST-1) abrogated MT1-MMP delivery to invadopodia and extravasation efficiency. CONCLUSIONS: Anti-metastasis therapeutic approaches that target invadopodia are possible by disrupting interactions between MT1-MMP and (i)plectin. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04608357.
PXD034890	38971152	Early rhombic lip Protogenin(+ve) stem cells in a human-specific neurovascular niche initiate and maintain group 3 medulloblastoma. 	Prtg+ve Rhombic Lip Ventricular Zone Stem Cells Initiate and Maintain Group 3 Medulloblastoma	CAR T cell therapy, Group 3, Medulloblastoma, Tumor initiating cells, cell of origin, rhombic lip	We identify a population of Protogenin-positive (PRTG(+ve)) MYC(high) NESTIN(low) stem cells in the four-week-old human embryonic hindbrain that subsequently localizes to the ventricular zone of the rhombic lip (RL(VZ)). Oncogenic transformation of early Prtg(+ve) rhombic lip stem cells initiates group 3 medulloblastoma (Gr3-MB)-like tumors. PRTG(+ve) stem cells grow adjacent to a human-specific interposed vascular plexus in the RL(VZ), a phenotype that is recapitulated in Gr3-MB but not in other types of medulloblastoma. Co-culture of Gr3-MB with endothelial cells promotes tumor stem cell growth, with the endothelial cells adopting an immature phenotype. Targeting the PRTG(high) compartment of Gr3-MB in vivo using either the diphtheria toxin system or chimeric antigen receptor T cells constitutes effective therapy. Human Gr3-MBs likely arise from early embryonic RL(VZ) PRTG(+ve) stem cells inhabiting a specific perivascular niche. Targeting the PRTG(high) compartment and/or the perivascular niche represents an approach to treat children with Gr3-MB.
PXD052979	38971796	Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell membrane-coated vesicles for bone marrow-targeted leukaemia drug delivery. 	Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell membrane-coated vesicles for bone marrow-targeted leukaemia drug delivery	HSPC Leukemia Liposome	Leukemia is a kind of hematological malignancy originating from bone marrow, which provides essential signals for initiation, progression, and recurrence of leukemia. However, how to specifically deliver drugs to the bone marrow remains elusive. Here, we develop biomimetic vesicles by infusing hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) membrane with liposomes (HSPC liposomes), which migrate to the bone marrow of leukemic mice via hyaluronic acid-CD44 axis. Moreover, the biomimetic vesicles exhibit superior binding affinity to leukemia cells through intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1)/integrin beta2 (ITGB2) interaction. Further experiments validate that the vesicles carrying chemotherapy drug cytarabine (Ara-C@HSPC-Lipo) markedly inhibit proliferation, induce apoptosis and differentiation of leukemia cells, and decrease number of leukemia stem cells. Mechanically, RNA-seq reveals that Ara-C@HSPC-Lipo treatment induces apoptosis and differentiation and inhibits the oncogenic pathways. Finally, we verify that HSPC liposomes are safe in mice. This study provides a method for targeting bone marrow and treating leukemia.
PXD044010	38971819	ATP6V0A1-dependent cholesterol absorption in colorectal cancer cells triggers immunosuppressive signaling to inactivate memory CD8(+) T cells. 	The mechanism of ATP6V0A1 regulating immune evasion in colorectal cancer	ATP6V0A1, Colorectal cancer, immune evasion	Obesity shapes anti-tumor immunity through lipid metabolism; however, the mechanisms underlying how colorectal cancer (CRC) cells utilize lipids to suppress anti-tumor immunity remain unclear. Here, we show that tumor cell-intrinsic ATP6V0A1 drives exogenous cholesterol-induced immunosuppression in CRC. ATP6V0A1 facilitates cholesterol absorption in CRC cells through RAB guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (RABGEF1)-dependent endosome maturation, leading to cholesterol accumulation within the endoplasmic reticulum and elevated production of 24-hydroxycholesterol (24-OHC). ATP6V0A1-induced 24-OHC upregulates TGF-beta1 by activating the liver X receptor (LXR) signaling. Subsequently, the release of TGF-beta1 into the tumor microenvironment by CRC cells activates the SMAD3 pathway in memory CD8(+) T cells, ultimately suppressing their anti-tumor activities. Moreover, we identify daclatasvir, a clinically used anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) drug, as an ATP6V0A1 inhibitor that can effectively enhance the memory CD8(+) T cell activity and suppress tumor growth in CRC. These findings shed light on the potential for ATP6V0A1-targeted immunotherapy in CRC.
PXD050303	38974472	Clinical features and multiomics profiles indicate coagulation and platelet dysfunction in COVID-19 viral sepsis. 	Clinical features and Multiomics Profiles Indicate Coagulation and Platelet Dysfunction as Key Pathological Pathways in COVID-19 Viral Sepsis	COVID-19, Metabolomics, SARS-CoV-2, Viral Sepsis	Increased cases of sepsis during COVID-19 in the absence of known bacterial pathogens highlighted role of viruses as causative agents of sepsis. In this study, we investigated clinical, laboratory, proteomic, and metabolomic characteristics of viral sepsis patients (n = 45) and compared them to non-sepsis patients with COVID-19 (n = 186) to identify molecular mechanisms underlying the pathology of viral sepsis in COVID-19. We identified unique metabolomic and proteomic signatures that suggest a substantial perturbation in the coagulation, complement, and platelet activation pathways in viral sepsis. Our proteomic data indicated elevated coagulation pathway protein (fibrinogen), whereas a decrease in many of the complement proteins was observed. These alterations were associated with the functional consequences such as susceptibility to secondary bacterial infections and potentially contributing to both local and systemic disease phenotypes. Our data provide novel aspect of COVID-19 pathology that is centered around presence of sepsis phenotype in COVID-19.
PXD048778	38975221	Investigation of the human-gut-kidney axis by fecal proteomics, highlights molecular mechanisms affected in CKD. 	Investigation of the human-gut-kidney axis by fecal proteomics, highlights molecular mechanisms affected in the later stages of CKD	CKD, bioinformatics, butyrate, fecal, gut, inflammation	Objective: The interplay of gut microbiota with the kidney system in chronic kidney disease (CKD), is characterized by increased concentrations of uric acid in the gut, which in turn, may increase bacterial uricase activity and may lead to the generation of uremic toxins. Nevertheless, knowledge on these underlying bidirectional molecular mechanisms is still limited. Methods: In this exploratory study, proteomic analysis was performed on fecal samples, targeting to investigate this largely unexplored biological material as a source of information reflecting the gut-kidney axis. Specifically, fecal suspension samples from patients with CKD1 (n = 12) and CKD4 (n = 17) were analysed by LC-MS/MS, using both the Human and Bacterial UniProt RefSeq reviewed databases. Results: This fecal proteomic analysis collectively identified 701 human and 1011 bacterial proteins of high confidence. Differential expression analysis (CKD4/CKD1) revealed significant changes in human proteins (n = 8, including proteins such as galectin-3-binding protein and prolactin-inducible protein), that were found to be associated with inflammation and CKD. The differential protein expression of pancreatic alpha-amylase further suggested plausible reduced saccharolytic fermentation in CKD4/CKD1. Significant changes in bacterial proteins (n = 9, such as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and enolase), participating in various carbohydrate and metabolic pathways important for the synthesis of butyrate, in turn suggested differential butyrate synthesis in CKD4/CKD1. Further, targeted quantification of fecal pancreatic alpha-amylase and butyrate in the same fecal suspension samples, supported these hypotheses. Conclusion: Collectively, this exploratory fecal proteomic analysis highlighted changes in human and bacterial proteins reflecting inflammation and reduced saccharolytic fermentation in CKD4/CKD1, plausibly affecting the butyrate synthesis pathways in advanced stage kidney disease. Integrative multi-omics validation is planned.
PXD039768	38976734	Memory effects of prior subculture may impact the quality of multiomic perturbation profiles. 	Multilevel Omics-Readouts of Perturbation Studies in vitro are Determined by Memory Effects from Subculture	Arsenic trioxide, Eicosadomics, Mode of action deconvolution, Multi-level omics, Perturbation network, Phosphoproteomics, Reproducibility, Subculture	Mass spectrometry-based omics technologies are increasingly used in perturbation studies to map drug effects to biological pathways by identifying significant molecular events. Significance is influenced by fold change and variation of each molecular parameter, but also by multiple testing corrections. While the fold change is largely determined by the biological system, the variation is determined by experimental workflows. Here, it is shown that memory effects of prior subculture can influence the variation of perturbation profiles using the two colon carcinoma cell lines SW480 and HCT116. These memory effects are largely driven by differences in growth states that persist into the perturbation experiment. In SW480 cells, memory effects combined with moderate treatment effects amplify the variation in multiple omics levels, including eicosadomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics. With stronger treatment effects, the memory effect was less pronounced, as demonstrated in HCT116 cells. Subculture homogeneity was controlled by real-time monitoring of cell growth. Controlled homogeneous subculture resulted in a perturbation network of 321 causal conjectures based on combined proteomic and phosphoproteomic data, compared to only 58 causal conjectures without controlling subculture homogeneity in SW480 cells. Some cellular responses and regulatory events were identified that extend the mode of action of arsenic trioxide (ATO) only when accounting for these memory effects. Controlled prior subculture led to the finding of a synergistic combination treatment of ATO with the thioredoxin reductase 1 inhibitor auranofin, which may prove useful in the management of NRF2-mediated resistance mechanisms.
PXD049067	38977202	Quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling of mouse sperm maturation in epididymis revealed kinases important for sperm motility. 	TMT-based phosphoproteomics and proteomics analysis of the mouse sperm	TMT, phosphoproteomics, sperm	Transcriptionally and translationally silent sperm undergo functional maturation during epididymis traverse, which provides sperm ability to move and is crucial for successful fertilization. However, the molecular mechanisms governing sperm maturation remain poorly understood, especially at protein post-translational modification level. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of mouse epididymal sperm from different regions (caput, corpus, and cauda) to unveil the dynamics of protein phosphorylation during sperm maturation. We identified 6,447 phosphorylation sites in 1,407 phosphoproteins, and 345 phosphoproteins were differentially phosphorylated between caput and cauda sperm. Gene ontology and KEGG pathway analyses showed enrichment of differentially phosphorylated proteins in energy metabolism, sperm motility and fertilization. Kinase substrate network analysis followed by inhibition assay and quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis showed that TSSK2 kinase is important for sperm motility and progressive motility. This study systemically characterized the intricate phosphorylation regulation during sperm maturation in the mouse epididymis, which can be a basis to elucidate sperm motility acquisition, and to offer potential targets for male contraception and the treatment of male infertility.
PXD043715	38977785	Extracellular C1qbp inhibits myogenesis by suppressing NFATc1. 	Mouse muscle proteome for sarcopenia study	LC-MS, LFQ, Muscle, sarcopenia	Aging and lack of exercise are the most important etiological factors for muscle loss. We hypothesized that new factors that contribute to muscle loss could be identified from ones commonly altered in expression in aged and exercise-limited skeletal muscles. Mouse gastrocnemius muscles were subjected to mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis. The muscle proteomes of hindlimb-unloaded and aged mice were compared to those of exercised and young mice, respectively. C1qbp expression was significantly upregulated in the muscles of both hindlimb-unloaded and aged mice. In vitro myogenic differentiation was not affected by altering intracellular C1qbp expression but was significantly suppressed upon recombinant C1qbp treatment. Additionally, recombinant C1qbp repressed the protein level but not the mRNA level of NFATc1. NFATc1 recruited the transcriptional coactivator p300, leading to the upregulation of acetylated histone H3 levels. Furthermore, NFATc1 silencing inhibited p300 recruitment, downregulated acetylated histone H3 levels, and consequently suppressed myogenic differentiation. The expression of C1qbp was inversely correlated with that of NFATc1 in the gastrocnemius muscles of exercised or hindlimb-unloaded, and young or aged mice. These findings demonstrate a novel role of extracellular C1qbp in suppressing myogenesis by inhibiting the NFATc1/p300 complex. Thus, C1qbp can serve as a novel therapeutic target for muscle loss.
PXD044530	38977789	Distinct phases of cellular signaling revealed by time-resolved protein synthesis. 	Distinct phases of cellular signaling revealed by time-resolved protein synthesis	Fusion oncogenes, PRM, Protein engineering, SILAC AP-MS, Signaling, TMT-phosphoproteomics	The post-translational regulation of protein function is involved in most cellular processes. As such, synthetic biology tools that operate at this level provide opportunities for manipulating cellular states. Here we deploy proximity-triggered protein trans-splicing technology to enable the time-resolved synthesis of target proteins from premade parts. The modularity of the strategy allows for the addition or removal of various control elements as a function of the splicing reaction, in the process permitting the cellular location and/or activity state of starting materials and products to be differentiated. The approach is applied to a diverse set of proteins, including the kinase oncofusions breakpoint cluster region-Abelson (BCR-ABL) and DNAJ-PKAc where dynamic cellular phosphorylation events are dissected, revealing distinct phases of signaling and identifying molecular players connecting the oncofusion to cancer transformation as new therapeutic targets of cancer cells. We envision that the tools and control strategies developed herein will allow the activity of both naturally occurring and designer proteins to be harnessed for basic and applied research.
PXD050030	38978496	Improving Proteomic Identification Using Narrow Isolation Windows with Zeno SWATH Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Proteome study to optimize Zeno SWATH DIA	SWATH, benchmarking, data-independent acquisition (DIA), narrow isolation windows, parameter optimization	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) techniques such as sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH) acquisition have emerged as the preferred strategies for proteomic analyses. Our study optimized the SWATH-DIA method using a narrow isolation window placement approach, improving its proteomic performance. We optimized the acquisition parameter combinations of narrow isolation windows with different widths (1.9 and 2.9 Da) on a ZenoTOF 7600 (Sciex); the acquired data were analyzed using DIA-NN (version 1.8.1). Narrow SWATH (nSWATH) identified 5916 and 7719 protein groups on the digested peptides, corresponding to 400 ng of protein from mouse liver and HEK293T cells, respectively, improving identification by 7.52 and 4.99%, respectively, compared to conventional SWATH. The median coefficient of variation of the quantified values was less than 6%. We further analyzed 200 ng of benchmark samples comprising peptides from known ratios ofEscherichia coli, yeast, and human peptides using nSWATH. Consequently, it achieved accuracy and precision comparable to those of conventional SWATH, identifying an average of 95,456 precursors and 9342 protein groups across three benchmark samples, representing 12.6 and 9.63% improved identification compared to conventional SWATH. The nSWATH method improved identification at various loading amounts of benchmark samples, identifying 40.7% more protein groups at 25 ng. These results demonstrate the improved performance of nSWATH, contributing to the acquisition of deeper proteomic data from complex biological samples.
PXD043267	38978759	The antioxidant effects of butylated hydroxytoluene on cryopreserved goat sperm from a proteomic perspective. 	Study on goat sperm by quantitative proteomics technology		At present, there are few reports about the proteomics changes provoked by butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) supplementation on cryopreserved semen in mammals. Thus, we aimed to evaluate the effects of different concentrations of BHT on goat sperm and to investigate the proteomics changes of adding BHT to cryopreserved goat (Capra hircus) sperm. Firstly, semen samples were collected from four goats, and frozen in the basic extenders containing different concentrations of BHT (0.5 mM, 1.0 mM, 2.0 mM) and a control without BHT, respectively. After thawing, the protective effects of dose-dependent replenished BHT to the freezing medium on post-thaw sperm motility, integrities of plasma membrane and acrosome, reactive oxygen species levels were confirmed, with 0.5 mM BHT being the best (B group) as compared to the control (without BHT, C group). Afterwards, TMT-based quantitative proteomic technique was performed to profile proteome of the goat sperm between C group and B group. Parallel reaction monitoring was used to confirm reliability of the data. Overall, 2,476 proteins were identified and quantified via this approach. Comparing the C and B groups directly (C vs. B), there were 17 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) po-tentially associated with sperm characteristics and functions were identified, wherein three were upregulated and 14 were downregulated, respectively. GO annotation analysis demonstrated the potential involvement of the identified DAPs in metabolic process, multi-organism process, reproduction, reproductive process, and cellular process. KEGG enrichment analysis further indicated their potential roles in renin-angiotensin system and glutathione metabolism pathways. Together, this novel study clearly shows that BHT can effectively improve quality parameters and fertility potential of post-thawed goat sperm at the optimal concentration, and its cryoprotection may be realized through regulation of sperm metabolism and antioxidative capability from the perspective of sperm proteomic modification.
PXD052688	38979360	NRF2-dependent regulation of the prostacyclin receptor PTGIR drives CD8 T cell exhaustion. 	The Prostacyclin Receptor is a NRF2-regulated Immune Checkpoint in CD8 T cells	T cell exhaustion, adoptive cell therapy, immune checkpoint	The progressive decline of CD8 T cell effector function-also known as terminal exhaustion-is a major contributor to immune evasion in cancer. Yet, the molecular mechanisms that drive CD8 T cell dysfunction remain poorly understood. Here, we report that the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1)-Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) signaling axis, which mediates cellular adaptations to oxidative stress, directly regulates CD8 T cell exhaustion. Transcriptional profiling of dysfunctional CD8 T cells from chronic infection and cancer reveals enrichment of NRF2 activity in terminally exhausted (Tex (term) ) CD8 T cells. Increasing NRF2 activity in CD8 T cells (via conditional deletion of KEAP1) promotes increased glutathione production and antioxidant defense yet accelerates the development of terminally exhausted (PD-1 (+) TIM-3 (+) ) CD8 T cells in response to chronic infection or tumor challenge. Mechanistically, we identify PTGIR, a receptor for the circulating eicosanoid prostacyclin, as an NRF2-regulated protein that promotes CD8 T cell dysfunction. Silencing PTGIR expression restores the anti-tumor function of KEAP1-deficient T cells. Moreover, lowering PTGIR expression in CD8 T cells both reduces terminal exhaustion and enhances T cell effector responses (i.e. IFN-gamma and granzyme production) to chronic infection and cancer. Together, these results establish the KEAP1-NRF2 axis as a metabolic sensor linking oxidative stress to CD8 T cell dysfunction and identify the prostacyclin receptor PTGIR as an NRF2-regulated immune checkpoint that regulates CD8 T cell fate decisions between effector and exhausted states. One Sentence Summary: The KEAP1-NRF2 pathway is hyperactivated in terminally exhausted CD8 T cells and drives T cell dysfunction via transcriptional regulation of the prostacyclin receptor, Ptgir .
PXD066623	38979366	Disentangling the splicing factor programs underlying complex molecular phenotypes. 	Exon inclusion signatures enable accurate estimation of splicing factor activity	VIPER, alternative splicing, cancer, carcinogenesis, protein activity, splicing factor	The regulation of exon inclusion through alternative splicing tunes the cell's behavior by increasing the functional diversity of the transcriptome and the proteome. Splicing factors work in concert to generate gene isoform pools that contribute to cell phenotypes yet their activity is controlled by multiple regulatory and signaling layers. This hinders identification of functional, phenotype-specific splicing factors using traditional single-omic measurements, such as their mutational state or expression. To address this challenge, we propose repurposing the virtual inference of protein activity by enriched regulon analysis (VIPER) to measure splicing factor activity solely from their downstream exon transcriptomic inclusion signatures. This approach is effective in assessing the effect of co-occurring splicing factor perturbations, as well as their post-translational regulation. As proof of concept, we dissect recurrent splicing factor programs underlying tumorigenesis including aberrantly activated factors acting as oncogenes and inactivated ones acting as tumor suppressors, which are undetectable by more conventional methodologies. Activation and inactivation of these cancer splicing programs effectively stratifies overall survival, as well as cancer hallmarks such as proliferation and immune evasion. Altogether, repurposing network-based inference of protein activity for splicing factor networks distills common, functionally relevant splicing programs in otherwise heterogeneous molecular contexts.
PXD049175	38979761	Altered N6-methyladenosine methylation level in spermatozoa messenger RNA of the male partners is related to unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss. 	Proteomics of SEMA5A, MT-ATP6, ZNF662, and KDM4C in zebrafish embryos	KDM4C, MT-ATP6, SEMA5A, ZNF662	BACKGROUND: Understanding the pathogenesis of unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss is paramount for advancing effective treatments. Various biological processes, including spermatogenesis and embryo development, are tightly regulated by N6-methyladenosine modifications. However, few studies have focused on the impact of sperm N6-methyladenosine modifications on embryonic development. Therefore, we aimed to study altered N6-methyladenosine-mediated messenger RNA methylation modifications in the spermatozoa of male partners from couples experiencing unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss, to identify potential diagnostic markers and explore their potential molecular mechanisms in pregnancy loss and embryogenesis. METHODS: Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) sequencing and RNA sequencing were conducted on the spermatozoa of men from couples in the 'unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss' group (n = 6), and the fertility control group (n = 6). To identify the role of the detected key genes, zebrafish model embryos were studied, and multi-omics (transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics) analyses helped to explore the molecular mechanism of abnormal embryogenesis. FINDINGS: Comparing unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss with the fertility control group, 217 N6-methyladenosine peaks were significantly upregulated, and 40 were downregulated in the spermatozoa. The combined analyses of spermatozoa-methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing and RNA sequencing indicated that N6-methyladenosine methylation and the expression of SEMA5A, MT-ATP6, ZNF662, and KDM4C were significantly different. In zebrafish embryos, the altered expression of the four genes increased embryonic mortality and malformations by disturbing several key signaling pathways and zygotic genome activation. INTERPRETATION: This study highlights the paternal epigenome, which could be one of the reasons for faulty embryogenesis leading to pregnancy loss. The N6-methyladenosine modification, the most prevalent RNA modification, contributes to the exploration and understanding of the paternal epigenome in the maintenance of pregnancy and fetal growth and development. The four genes identified in this study may serve as potential diagnostic markers and elucidate novel molecular mechanisms of embryogenesis.
PXD050763	38981479	The anti-tubercular callyaerins target the Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific non-essential membrane protein Rv2113. 	Proteomic study of the effect of  Callyaerin B derivativs on M. tuberculosis H37Rv	Cal B, Callyaerin B, M. tuberculosis H37Rv	Spread of antimicrobial resistances urges a need for new drugs against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) with mechanisms differing from current antibiotics. Previously, callyaerins were identified as promising anti-tubercular agents, representing a class of hydrophobic cyclopeptides with an unusual (Z)-2,3-di-aminoacrylamide unit. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying their antimycobacterial properties. Structure-activity relationship studies enabled the identification of structural determinants relevant for antibacterial activity. Callyaerins are bacteriostatics selectively active against Mtb, including extensively drug-resistant strains, with minimal cytotoxicity against human cells and promising intracellular activity. By combining mutant screens and various chemical proteomics approaches, we showed that callyaerins target the non-essential, Mtb-specific membrane protein Rv2113, triggering a complex dysregulation of the proteome, characterized by global downregulation of lipid biosynthesis, cell division, DNA repair, and replication. Our study thus identifies Rv2113 as a previously undescribed Mtb-specific drug target and demonstrates that also non-essential proteins may represent efficacious targets for antimycobacterial drugs.
PXD052713	38982062	FAM122A ensures cell cycle interphase progression and checkpoint control by inhibiting B55alpha/PP2A through helical motifs. 	The histogenetic origin of malignant cells predicts their cyto-toxicity towards synthetic lethality utilizing the TK.007 system	Chemotherapy, Drug Resistance, Functional kinome profiling, Ganciclovir, Herpes Simplex Virus Thymidine Kinase, Suicide Gene Transduction	The Ser/Thr protein phosphatase 2 A (PP2A) regulates the dephosphorylation of many phosphoproteins. Substrate recognition are mediated by B regulatory subunits. Here, we report the identification of a substrate conserved motif [RK]-V-x-x-[VI]-R in FAM122A, an inhibitor of B55alpha/PP2A. This motif is necessary for FAM122A binding to B55alpha, and computational structure prediction suggests the motif, which is helical, blocks substrate docking to the same site. In this model, FAM122A also spatially constrains substrate access by occluding the catalytic subunit. Consistently, FAM122A functions as a competitive inhibitor as it prevents substrate binding and dephosphorylation of CDK substrates by B55alpha/PP2A in cell lysates. FAM122A deficiency in human cell lines reduces the proliferation rate, cell cycle progression, and hinders G1/S and intra-S phase cell cycle checkpoints. FAM122A-KO in HEK293 cells attenuates CHK1 and CHK2 activation in response to replication stress. Overall, these data strongly suggest that FAM122A is a short helical motif (SHeM)-dependent, substrate-competitive inhibitor of B55alpha/PP2A that suppresses multiple functions of B55alpha in the DNA damage response and in timely progression through the cell cycle interphase.
PXD052264	38982076	IDH1-mutant metabolite D-2-hydroxyglutarate inhibits proliferation and sensitizes glioma to temozolomide via down-regulating ITGB4/PI3K/AKT. 	IDH1-mutant metabolite D-2-Hydroxyglutarate inhibits proliferation and sensitizes glioma to Temozolomide via down-regulating ITGB4/PI3K/AKT	D-2-hydroxyglutarate, Glioma, IDH1 mutation, ITGB4, Temozolomide	The heterogeneous molecular subtypes of gliomas demonstrate varied responses to chemotherapy and distinct prognostic outcomes. Gliomas with Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) mutation are associated with better outcomes and are more responsive to temozolomide (TMZ) compared to those without IDH1 mutation. IDH1-mutant gliomas elevate D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG) levels, with potential dual effects on tumor progression. Limited research has explored the potential anti-glioma effects of D-2HG in combination with TMZ. Clinical data from over 2500 glioma patients in our study confirms that those with IDH1 mutations exhibit enhanced responsiveness to TMZ chemotherapy and a significantly better prognosis compared to IDH1 wild-type patients. In subsequent cellular experiments, we found that the IDH1-mutant metabolite D-2HG suppresses Integrin subunit beta 4 (ITGB4) expression, and down-regulate the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and AKT, ultimately inhibiting cell proliferation while promoting apoptosis, thereby improving glioma prognosis. Additionally, we have demonstrated the synergistic effect of D-2HG and TMZ in anti-glioma therapy involved inhibiting the proliferation of glioma cells and promoting apoptosis. Finally, by integrating data from the CGGA and TCGA databases, it was validated that ITGB4 expression was lower in IDH1-mutant gliomas, and patients with lower ITGB4 expression were associated with better prognosis. These findings indicate that ITGB4 may be a promising therapeutic target for gliomas and D-2HG inhibits proliferation and sensitizes glioma to temozolomide via down-regulating ITGB4/PI3K/AKT. These findings drive theoretical innovation and research progress in glioma therapy.
PXD053448	38982385	Comparative proteomics in tall fescue to reveal underlying mechanisms for improving Photosystem II thermotolerance during heat stress memory. 	Comparative proteomics in tall fescue to reveal underlying mechanisms for improving Photosystem  thermotolerance during heat stress memory	Comparative proteomics, Heat stress memory, Photosystem , TMT labeling, Tall fescue	BACKGROUND: The escalating impacts of global warming intensify the detrimental effects of heat stress on crop growth and yield. Among the earliest and most vulnerable sites of damage is Photosystem II (PSII). Plants exposed to recurring high temperatures develop heat stress memory, a phenomenon that enables them to retain information from previous stress events to better cope with subsequent one. Understanding the components and regulatory networks associated with heat stress memory is crucial for the development of heat-resistant crops. RESULTS: Physiological assays revealed that heat priming (HP) enabled tall fescue to possess higher Photosystem II photochemical activity when subjected to trigger stress. To investigate the underlying mechanisms of heat stress memory, we performed comparative proteomic analyses on tall fescue leaves at S0 (control), R4 (primed), and S5 (triggering), using an integrated approach of Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) labeling and Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry. A total of 3,851 proteins were detected, with quantitative information available for 3,835 proteins. Among these, we identified 1,423 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs), including 526 proteins that were classified as Heat Stress Memory Proteins (HSMPs). GO and KEGG enrichment analyses revealed that the HSMPs were primarily associated with the "autophagy" in R4 and with "PSII repair", "HSP binding", and "peptidase activity" in S5. Notably, we identified 7 chloroplast-localized HSMPs (HSP21, DJC77, EGY3, LHCA4, LQY1, PSBR and DEGP8, R4/S0 > 1.2, S5/S0 > 1.2), which were considered to be effectors linked to PSII heat stress memory, predominantly in cluster 4. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis indicated that the ubiquitin-proteasome system, with key nodes at UPL3, RAD23b, and UCH3, might play a role in the selective retention of memory effectors in the R4 stage. Furthermore, we conducted RT-qPCR validation on 12 genes, and the results showed that in comparison to the S5 stage, the R4 stage exhibited reduced consistency between transcript and protein levels, providing additional evidence for post-transcriptional regulation in R4. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide valuable insights into the establishment of heat stress memory under recurring high-temperature episodes and offer a conceptual framework for breeding thermotolerant crops with improved PSII functionality.
PXD045734	38983090	Dehydroalanine and dehydrobutyrine in aging and cataractous lenses reveal site-specific consequences of spontaneous protein degradation. 	Dehydroalanine and Dehydrobutyrine in Aging and Cataractous Lenses	Aging, Cataracts, Dehydroalanine, dehydrobutyrine, lens	Introduction: Protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) have been associated with aging and age-related diseases. PTMs are particularly impactful in long-lived proteins, such as those found in the ocular lens, because they accumulate with age. Two PTMs that lead to protein-protein crosslinks in aged and cataractous lenses are dehydroalanine (DHA) and dehydrobutyrine (DHB); formed from cysteine/serine and threonine residues, respectively. The purpose of this study was to quantitate DHA and DHB in human lens proteins as a function of age and cataract status. Methods: Human lenses of various ages were divided into five donor groups: transparent lenses (18-22-year-old, 48-64-year-old, and 70-93-year-old) and cataractous human lenses of two age groups (48-64-year-old lenses, and 70-93-year-old lenses) and were subjected to proteomic analysis. Relative DHA and DHB peptide levels were quantified and compared to their non-modified peptide counterparts. Results: For most lens proteins containing DHA or DHB, higher amounts of DHA- and DHB-modified peptides were detected in aged and cataractous lenses. DHA-containing peptides were classified into three groups based on abundance changes with age and cataract: those that (1) increased only in age-related nuclear cataract (ARNC), (2) increased in aged and cataractous lenses, and (3) decreased in aged lenses and ARNC. There was no indication that DHA or DHB levels were dependent on lens region. In most donor groups, proteins with DHA and DHB were more likely to be found among urea-insoluble proteins rather than among water- or urea-soluble proteins. Discussion: DHA and DHB formation may induce structural effects that make proteins less soluble in water that leads to age-related protein insolubility and possibly aggregation and light scattering.
PXD043411	38984826	Transcriptome and proteome analyses reveal genes and signaling pathways involved in the response to two insect hormones in the insect-fungal pathogen Hirsutella satumaensis. 	Proteomics of Hirsutella satumaensis	Hirsutella satumaensis	The insect hormones ecdysone (20E) and juvenile hormone III (JH) have been demonstrated to stimulate the secretion of conidia mucilage and pigments in Hirsutella satumaensis. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, comparative transcriptome and proteome analyses were performed to identify the fungal genes and proteins of H. satumaensis that are up- or downregulated in response to insect hormones. A total of 17,407 unigenes and 1,016 proteins in conidia mucilage were identified. The genes involved in response to the hormones were classified into four functional groups: (1) stress response-related genes that are required for the removal of reactive oxygen species (glutathione synthetase, c7144) and genes involved in the response to osmotic stress in the hemocoel, such as those encoding proteins involved in the G, mTOR, and MAPK signaling pathways (2); insect hormone metabolic genes, including genes encoding ecdysteroid UDP-glucosyltransferase, ecdysteroid-22-kinase, and a key aldehyde dehydrogenase in a juvenile hormone synthesis pathway (3); secretory proteins that share homology with those of the host Bombyx mori, including fibrohexamerin, sericin 1, metalloprotease 1 protein, and silk gum protein, which were revealed by the omics data; and (4) proteins related to amino sugar metabolism and oxidative phosphorylation that were specifically expressed in mucilage in response to 20E and JH, respectively. These findings revealed that H. satumaensis can mount effective responses by modulating the expression of genes involved in the detoxification, adaptation, and evasion of insect hormone-mediated immune responses, providing fresh insights into fungal pathogen-host insect interactions.IMPORTANCEInsect hormones are highly important for the regulation of insect growth, development, and immune system function. Thus, the expansion of entomopathogenic fungi (EPF) could be affected by these hormones when they inhabit the host hemocoel. However, the molecular basis of EPF in response to insect hormones has yet to be determined. Our results revealed that EPF are impacted by 20E and JH, both of which act as signals, as these hormones lead to changes in metabolic pathways of the fungus, thus demonstrating a direct relationship between the fungus and the hormones. Furthermore, adaptive strategies, such as the use of ecdysone-inactivating enzymes and secreted filamentous proteins in H. satumaensis, which strongly resemble those of the host insect, have been discovered, thus illustrating the importance of adaptation to insect hormones for a better understanding of the interaction between insects and EPF.
PXD042610	38985671	Formation of NifA-PII complex represses ammonium-sensitive nitrogen fixation in diazotrophic proteobacteria lacking NifL. 	Protein expression of Rhodopseudomonas palustris CGA009 during anaerobic nitrogen fixation or non nitrogen fixation	Molybdenum Nitrogenase, Nitrogen-fixing medium (NFM), Vanadium nitrogenase, anaerobic, iron-only nitrogenase, nitrogen fixation, photosynthetic medium (PM)	Biological nitrogen fixation catalyzed by nitrogenase contributes greatly to the global nitrogen cycle. Nitrogenase expression is subject to regulation in response to nitrogen availability. However, the mechanism through which the transcriptional activator NifA regulates nitrogenase expression by interacting with PII nitrogen regulatory proteins remains unclear in diazotrophic proteobacteria lacking NifL. Here, we demonstrate that in Rhodopseudomonas palustris grown with ammonium, NifA bound deuridylylated PII proteins to form an inactive NifA-PII complex, thereby inhibiting the expression of nitrogenase. Upon nitrogen limitation, the dissociation of uridylylated PII proteins from NifA resulted in the full restoration of NifA activity, and, simultaneously, uridylylation of the significantly up-regulated PII protein GlnK2 led to the increased expression of NifA in R. palustris. This insight into how NifA interacts with PII proteins and controls nitrogenase expression sets the stage for creating highly efficient diazotrophs, reducing the need for energy-intensive chemical fertilizers and helping to diminish carbon emissions.
PXD046708	38985674	SART3 reads methylarginine-marked glycine- and arginine-rich motifs. 	SART3 is a Novel Rme2s Reader studied by tandem MS	Arginine methylation, apms, lcms	Glycine- and arginine-rich (GAR) motifs, commonly found in RNA-binding and -processing proteins, can be symmetrically (SDMA) or asymmetrically (ADMA) dimethylated at the arginine residue by protein arginine methyltransferases. Arginine-methylated protein motifs are usually read by Tudor domain-containing proteins. Here, using a GFP-Trap, we identify a non-Tudor domain protein, squamous cell carcinoma antigen recognized by T cells 3 (SART3), as a reader for SDMA-marked GAR motifs. Structural analysis and mutagenesis of SART3 show that aromatic residues lining a groove between two adjacent aromatic-rich half-a-tetratricopeptide (HAT) repeat domains are essential for SART3 to recognize and bind to SDMA-marked GAR motif peptides, as well as for the interaction between SART3 and the GAR-motif-containing proteins fibrillarin and coilin. Further, we show that the loss of this reader ability affects RNA splicing. Overall, our findings broaden the range of potential SDMA readers to include HAT domains.
PXD052452	38985677	Extracellular vesicles from alveolar macrophages harboring phagocytosed methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus induce necroptosis. 	Extracellular vesicles from Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus-infected alveolar macrophages induce necroptosis	Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, alveolar macrophages, extracellular vesicles	Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection, a major cause of hospital- and community-acquired pneumonia, still has a high mortality rate. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), as crucial mediators of intercellular communication, have a significant impact on infectious diseases. However, the role of EVs from alveolar macrophages (AMs) in MRSA pneumonia remains unclear. We report that AMs phagocytose MRSA and release more EVs in mice with MRSA pneumonia. EVs from AMs harboring phagocytosed MRSA exhibit significant proinflammatory effects and induce necroptosis by delivering tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and miR-146a-5p. Mechanically, the upregulated miR-146a-5p in these EVs enhances the phosphorylation of RIPK1, RIPK3, and MLKL by targeting TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), thereby promoting TNF-alpha-induced necroptosis. The combination of a TNF-alpha antagonist and an miR-146a-5p antagomir effectively improves the outcomes of mice with MRSA pneumonia. Overall, we reveal the pronecrotic effect of EVs from MRSA-infected AMs and provide a promising target for the prevention and treatment of MRSA pneumonia.
PXD046061	38985853	An open-label, randomized controlled trial to assess a ketogenic diet in critically ill patients with sepsis. 	Ketogenic diet versus standard high-carbohydrate nutrition in sepsis: a randomized controlled trial	Ketogenic diet, critically ill patients, inflammation, intensive care, nutritional medicine, sepsis	Patients with sepsis experience metabolic and immunologic dysfunction that may be amplified by standard carbohydrate-based nutrition. A ketogenic diet (KD) may offer an immunologically advantageous alternative, although clinical evidence is limited. We conducted a single-center, open-label, randomized controlled trial to assess whether a KD could induce stable ketosis in critically ill patients with sepsis. Secondary outcomes included assessment of feasibility and safety of KD, as well as explorative analysis of clinical and immunological characteristics. Forty critically ill adults were randomized to either a ketogenic or standard high-carbohydrate diet. Stable ketosis was achieved in all KD patients, with significant increases in beta-hydroxybutyrate levels compared with controls [mean difference 1.4 milimoles per liter; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.0 to 1.8; P < 0.001). No major adverse events or harmful metabolic side effects (acidosis, dysglycemia, or dyslipidemia) were observed. After day 4, none of the patients in the KD group required insulin treatment, whereas in the control group, insulin dependency ranged between 35% and 60% (P = 0.009). There were no differences in 30-day survival, but ventilation-free [incidence rate ratio (IRR) 1.7; 95% CI: 1.5 to 2.1; P < 0.001], vasopressor-free (IRR 1.7; 95% CI: 1.5 to 2.0; P < 0.001), dialysis-free (IRR 1.5; 95% CI: 1.3 to 1.8; P < 0.001), and intensive care unit-free days (IRR 1.7; 95% CI: 1.4 to 2.1; P < 0.001) were higher in the ketogenic group. Next-generation sequencing of CD4(+)/CD8(+) T cells and protein analyses showed reduced immune dysregulation, with decreased gene expression of T-cell activation and signaling markers and lower pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. This trial demonstrated the safe induction of a stable ketogenic state in sepsis, warranting larger trials to investigate potential benefits in sepsis-related organ dysfunction.
PXD045803	38987280	Recurrent evolution of adhesive defence systems in amphibians by parallel shifts in gene expression. 	Proteome of the glue and mucus of the Madagascan tomato frog, Dyscophus guineti	amphibians, antipredator defence, bioadhesive, intrinsic disorder, parallel evolution	Natural selection can drive organisms to strikingly similar adaptive solutions, but the underlying molecular mechanisms often remain unknown. Several amphibians have independently evolved highly adhesive skin secretions (glues) that support a highly effective antipredator defence mechanism. Here we demonstrate that the glue of the Madagascan tomato frog, Dyscophus guineti, relies on two interacting proteins: a highly derived member of a widespread glycoprotein family and a galectin. Identification of homologous proteins in other amphibians reveals that these proteins attained a function in skin long before glues evolved. Yet, major elevations in their expression, besides structural changes in the glycoprotein (increasing its structural disorder and glycosylation), caused the independent rise of glues in at least two frog lineages. Besides providing a model for the chemical functioning of animal adhesive secretions, our findings highlight how recruiting ancient molecular templates may facilitate the recurrent evolution of functional innovations.
PXD045320	38987289	PARG is essential for Poltheta-mediated DNA end-joining by removing repressive poly-ADP-ribose marks. 	PARG is Essential for Pol-theta-Mediated DNA End-Joining by Removing Repressive Poly-ADP Ribose Marks	DNA polymerase theta, PARP1	DNA polymerase theta (Poltheta)-mediated end-joining (TMEJ) repairs DNA double-strand breaks and confers resistance to genotoxic agents. How Poltheta is regulated at the molecular level to exert TMEJ remains poorly characterized. We find that Poltheta interacts with and is PARylated by PARP1 in a HPF1-independent manner. PARP1 recruits Poltheta to the vicinity of DNA damage via PARylation dependent liquid demixing, however, PARylated Poltheta cannot perform TMEJ due to its inability to bind DNA. PARG-mediated de-PARylation of Poltheta reactivates its DNA binding and end-joining activities. Consistent with this, PARG is essential for TMEJ and the temporal recruitment of PARG to DNA damage corresponds with TMEJ activation and dissipation of PARP1 and PAR. In conclusion, we show a two-step spatiotemporal mechanism of TMEJ regulation. First, PARP1 PARylates Poltheta and facilitates its recruitment to DNA damage sites in an inactivated state. PARG subsequently activates TMEJ by removing repressive PAR marks on Poltheta.
PXD036784	38987455	Resolving chaperone-assisted protein folding on the ribosome at the peptide level. 	Analysis of stalled ribosome-nascent chain complexes by quantitative proteomics	interactome, protein biosynthesis, protein folding, ribosome-nascent chain complexes	Protein folding in vivo begins during synthesis on the ribosome and is modulated by molecular chaperones that engage the nascent polypeptide. How these features of protein biogenesis influence the maturation pathway of nascent proteins is incompletely understood. Here, we use hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry to define, at peptide resolution, the cotranslational chaperone-assisted folding pathway of Escherichia coli dihydrofolate reductase. The nascent polypeptide folds along an unanticipated pathway through structured intermediates not populated during refolding from denaturant. Association with the ribosome allows these intermediates to form, as otherwise destabilizing carboxy-terminal sequences remain confined in the ribosome exit tunnel. Trigger factor binds partially folded states without disrupting their structure, and the nascent chain is poised to complete folding immediately upon emergence of the C terminus from the exit tunnel. By mapping interactions between the nascent chain and ribosomal proteins, we trace the path of the emerging polypeptide during synthesis. Our work reveals new mechanisms by which cellular factors shape the conformational search for the native state.
PXD048052	38991018	A Zwitterionic Detergent and Catalyst-Based Single-Cell Proteomics Using a Loss-Free Microhole-Collection Disc. 	A zwitterionic detergent and catalyst-based single-cell proteomics using a loss-free microhole-collection disc	Tandem Mass Tags, quadrol, single-cell proteomics, zwitterionic detergent	Recent advances in single-cell proteomics have solved many bottlenecks, such as throughput, sample recovery, and scalability via nanoscale sample handling. In this study, we aimed for a sensitive mass spectrometry (MS) analysis capable of handling single cells with a conventional mass spectrometry workflow without additional equipment. We achieved seamless cell lysis and TMT labeling in a micro-HOLe Disc (microHOLD) by developing a mass-compatible single solution based on a zwitterionic detergent and a catalyst for single-cell lysis and tandem mass tag labeling without a heat incubation step. This method was developed to avoid peptide loss by surface adsorption and buffer or tube changes by collecting tandem mass tag-labeled peptide through microholes placed in the liquid chromatography injection vials in a single solution. We successfully applied the microHOLD single-cell proteomics method for the analysis of proteome reprogramming in hormone-sensitive prostate cells to develop castration-resistant prostate cancer cells. This novel single-cell proteomics method is not limited by cutting-edge nanovolume handling equipment and achieves high throughput and ultrasensitive proteomics analysis of limited samples, such as single cells.
PXD052983	38991478	Alanine and glutamate catabolism collaborate to ensure the success of Bacillus subtilis sporulation. 	Alanine and glutamate catabolism collaborate to ensure the success of sporulation in Bacillus subtilis	Bacillus subtilis, TMT	Sporulation as a typical bacterial differentiation process has been studied for decades. However, two crucial aspects of sporulation, (i) the energy sources supporting the process, and (ii) the maintenance of spore dormancy throughout sporulation, are scarcely explored. Here, we reported the crucial role of RocG-mediated glutamate catabolism in regulating mother cell lysis, a critical step for sporulation completion of Bacillus subtilis, likely by providing energy metabolite ATP. Notably, rocG overexpression resulted in an excessive ATP accumulation in sporulating cells, leading to adverse effects on future spore properties, e.g. increased germination efficiency, reduced DPA content, and lowered heat resistance. Additionally, we revealed that Ald-mediated alanine metabolism was highly related to the inhibition of premature germination and the maintenance of spore dormancy during sporulation, which might be achieved by decreasing the typical germinant L-alanine concentration in sporulating environment. Our data inferred that sporulation of B. subtilis was a highly orchestrated biological process requiring a delicate balance in diverse metabolic pathways, hence ensuring both the completion of sporulation and production of high-quality spores.
PXD050375	38992040	The transcriptional co-repressor Runx1t1 is essential for MYCN-driven neuroblastoma tumorigenesis. 	The transcriptional co-repressor Runx1t1 is essential for MYCN-driven neuroblastoma tumorigenesis	CoREST, MYCN, neuroblastoma, runx1t1	MYCN oncogene amplification is frequently observed in aggressive childhood neuroblastoma. Using an unbiased large-scale mutagenesis screen in neuroblastoma-prone transgenic mice, we identify a single germline point mutation in the transcriptional corepressor Runx1t1, which abolishes MYCN-driven tumorigenesis. This loss-of-function mutation disrupts a highly conserved zinc finger domain within Runx1t1. Deletion of one Runx1t1 allele in an independent Runx1t1 knockout mouse model is also sufficient to prevent MYCN-driven neuroblastoma development, and reverse ganglia hyperplasia, a known pre-requisite for tumorigenesis. Silencing RUNX1T1 in human neuroblastoma cells decreases colony formation in vitro, and inhibits tumor growth in vivo. Moreover, RUNX1T1 knockdown inhibits the viability of PAX3-FOXO1 fusion-driven rhabdomyosarcoma and MYC-driven small cell lung cancer cells. Despite the role of Runx1t1 in MYCN-driven tumorigenesis neither gene directly regulates the other. We show RUNX1T1 forms part of a transcriptional LSD1-CoREST3-HDAC repressive complex recruited by HAND2 to enhancer regions to regulate chromatin accessibility and cell-fate pathway genes.
PXD045394	38992689	Distinctive protein expression in elderly livers in a Sprague-Dawley rat model of normothermic ex vivo liver machine perfusion. 	Protein Expression in Liver Tissue and Bile of Elderly Sprague-Dawley Rats after Normothermic Machine Perfusion	Bile, Liver, Rat	BACKGROUND: Liver grafts are frequently declined due to high donor age or age mismatch with the recipient. To improve the outcome of marginal grafts, we aimed to characterize the performance of elderly vs. young liver grafts in a standardized rat model of normothermic ex vivo liver machine perfusion (NMP). METHODS: Livers from Sprague-Dawley rats aged 3 or 12 months were procured and perfused for 6 h using a rat NMP system or collected as a reference group (n = 6/group). Tissue, bile, and perfusate samples were used for biochemical, and proteomic analyses. RESULTS: All livers cleared lactate during perfusion and continued to produce bile after 6 h of perfusion (614 mg/h). Peak urea levels in 12-month-old animals were higher than in younger animals. Arterial and portal venous pressure, bile production and pH did not differ between groups. Proteomic analysis identified a total of 1477 proteins with oxidoreductase and catalytic activity dominating the gene ontology analysis. Proteins such as aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A1 and 2-Hydroxyacid oxidase 2 were significantly more present in livers of older age. CONCLUSIONS: Young and elderly liver grafts exhibited similar viability during NMP, though proteomic analyses indicated that older grafts are less resilient to oxidative stress. Our study is limited by the elderly animal age, which corresponds to mature but not elderly human age typically seen in marginal human livers. Nevertheless, reducing oxidative stress could be a promising therapeutic target in the future.
PXD050411	38993491	Proteomic and metabolomic profiling of methicillin resistant versus methicillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus using a simultaneous extraction protocol. 	proteomic and metabolomic profiling of methicillin resistant and methicillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus using a simultaneous extraction protocol	Dual-functionality, MRSA, Staphylococcus aures, metabolomics. proteomics	Background: Understanding the biology of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is crucial to unlocking insights for new targets in our fight against this antimicrobial resistant priority pathogen. Although proteomics and metabolomic profiling offer the potential to elucidating such biological markers, reports of methodological approaches for carrying this out in S. aureus isolates remain limited. We describe the use of a dual-functionality methanol extraction method for the concurrent extraction of protein and metabolites from S. aureus and report on the comparative analysis of the proteomic and metabolomic profiles of MRSA versus methicillin sensitive S. aureus (MSSA). Methods: Bacterial reference strains MRSA ATCC43300 and MSSA ATCC25923 were used. The conventional urea methodology was used for protein extraction and a methanol based method was used for concurrent proteins and metabolites extraction. Proteomic and metabolomic profiling was carried out using TimsTOF mass spectrometry. Data processing was carried out using the MaxQuant version 2.1.4.0. Results: This study represents the first report on the utilization of the methanol extraction method for concurrent protein and metabolite extraction in Gram positive bacteria. Our findings demonstrate good performance of the method for the dual extraction of proteins and metabolites from S. aureus with demonstration of reproducibility. Comparison of MRSA and MSSA strains revealed 407 proteins with significantly different expression levels. Enrichment analysis of those proteins revealed distinct pathways involved in fatty acid degradation, metabolism and beta-lactam resistance. Penicillin-binding protein PBP2a, the key determinant of MRSA resistance, exhibited distinct expression patterns in MRSA isolates. Metabolomic analysis identified 146 metabolites with only one exclusive to the MRSA. The enriched pathways identified were related to arginine metabolism and biosynthesis. Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate the effectiveness of the methanol-based dual-extraction method, providing simultaneous insights into the proteomic and metabolomic landscapes of S. aureus strains. These findings demonstrate the utility of proteomic and metabolomic profiling for elucidating the biological basis of antimicrobial resistance.
PXD042899	38994560	Loss of Lamin A leads to the nuclear translocation of AGO2 and compromised RNA interference. 	Loss of Lamin A leads to the nuclear translocation of AGO2 and compromised RNA interference	Argonaute 2, EGFR, FAM120A, Lamin A, RNA interference, Src, Y393-AGO2, gene regulation	In mammals, RNA interference (RNAi) was historically studied as a cytoplasmic event; however, in the last decade, a growing number of reports convincingly show the nuclear localization of the Argonaute (AGO) proteins. Nevertheless, the extent of nuclear RNAi and its implication in biological mechanisms remain to be elucidated. We found that reduced Lamin A levels significantly induce nuclear influx of AGO2 in SHSY5Y neuroblastoma and A375 melanoma cancer cell lines, which normally have no nuclear AGO2. Lamin A KO manifested a more pronounced effect in SHSY5Y cells compared to A375 cells, evident by changes in cell morphology, increased cell proliferation, and oncogenic miRNA expression. Moreover, AGO fPAR-CLIP in Lamin A KO SHSY5Y cells revealed significantly reduced RNAi activity. Further exploration of the nuclear AGO interactome by mass spectrometry identified FAM120A, an RNA-binding protein and known interactor of AGO2. Subsequent FAM120A fPAR-CLIP, revealed that FAM120A co-binds AGO targets and that this competition reduces the RNAi activity. Therefore, loss of Lamin A triggers nuclear AGO2 translocation, FAM120A mediated RNAi impairment, and upregulation of oncogenic miRNAs, facilitating cancer cell proliferation.
PXD047061	38995844	Quantitative Label-Free Proteomic Analysis of Mouse Ovarian Antral Follicles Following Oral Exposure to a Human Relevant Mixture of Three Phthalates. 	Quantitative Label-free Proteomic Analysis of Ovarian Antral Follicles Exposed In Vivo to a Mixture of Phthalates	Ovarian Antral Follicles, Phthalates	Dibutyl phthalate (DBP), di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP), and benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP) are used in personal and medical care products. In the ovary, antral follicles are essential for steroidogenesis and ovulation. DBP, BBP, and DEHP are known to inhibit mouse antral follicle growth and ovulation in vitro, and associate with decreased antral follicle counts in women. Given that the in vivo effects of a three-phthalate mixture on antral follicles are unknown, we evaluated the effects of a human relevant mixture of DBP, BBP, and DEHP on ovarian follicles through proteome profiling analysis. Adult CD-1 female mice were fed corn oil (vehicle), or two dose levels of a phthalate mixture based on estimated exposures in general (32 microg/kg/day; PHT 32) and occupationally exposed (500 microg/kg/day; PHT 500) populations for 10 days. Antral follicles (>250 microm) were isolated and subjected to proteome profiling via label-free tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 5,417 antral follicle proteins were detected, of which 194 were differentially abundant between vehicle and PHT 32, and 136 between vehicle and PHT 500. Bioinformatic analysis revealed significantly different responses between the two phthalate doses. Protein abundance differences in the PHT 32 exposure mapped to cytoplasm, mitochondria, and lipid metabolism; while those in the PHT 500 exposure mapped to cytoplasm, nucleus, and phosphorylation. When both doses altered proteins mapped to common processes, the associated predicted transcription factors were different. These findings provide novel mechanistic insight into phthalate-associated, ovary-driven reproductive outcomes in women.
PXD047318	38996472	Construction of multilayered small intestine-like tissue by reproducing interstitial flow. 	Construction of small intestine-like tissue by reproducing interstitial flow on-chip	whole proteome	Recent advances have made modeling human small intestines in vitro possible, but it remains a challenge to recapitulate fully their structural and functional characteristics. We suspected interstitial flow within the intestine, powered by circulating blood plasma during embryonic organogenesis, to be a vital factor. We aimed to construct an in vivo-like multilayered small intestinal tissue by incorporating interstitial flow into the system and, in turn, developed the micro-small intestine system by differentiating definitive endoderm and mesoderm cells from human pluripotent stem cells simultaneously on a microfluidic device capable of replicating interstitial flow. This approach enhanced cell maturation and led to the development of a three-dimensional small intestine-like tissue with villi-like epithelium and an aligned mesenchymal layer. Our micro-small intestine system not only overcomes the limitations of conventional intestine models but also offers a unique opportunity to gain insights into the detailed mechanisms underlying intestinal tissue development.
PXD044958	38996918	Enhanced in situ spatial proteomics by effective combination of MALDI imaging and LC-MS/MS. 	MALDI imaging and LC-MS/MS-based fast, high-resolution spatial proteomics demonstrate cellular heterogeneity in situ	Cellular heterogeneity, Data integration, Dentate gyrus, Imaging mass spectrometry, Laser capture microdissection	Highly specialized cells are fundamental for proper functioning of complex organs. Variations in cell-type specific gene expression and protein composition have been linked to a variety of diseases. Investigation of the distinctive molecular makeup of these cells within tissues is therefore critical in biomedical research. Although several technologies have emerged as valuable tools to address this cellular heterogeneity, most workflows lack sufficient in situ resolution and are associated with high cost and extremely long analysis times. Here, we present a combination of experimental and computational approaches that allows a more comprehensive investigation of molecular heterogeneity within tissues than by either shotgun LC-MS/MS or MALDI imaging alone. We applied our pipeline on mouse brain, which contains a wide variety of cell types that not only perform unique functions but also exhibit varying sensitivities to insults. We explored the distinct neuronal populations within the hippocampus, a brain region crucial for learning and memory that is involved in various neurological disorders. As an example, we identified the groups of proteins distinguishing the neuronal populations of dentate gyrus (DG) and the cornu ammonis (CA) in the same brain section. Most of the annotated proteins matched the regional enrichment of their transcripts, thereby validating the method. As the method is highly reproducible, the identification of individual masses through the combination of MALDI-IMS and LC-MS/MS methods can be used for the much faster and more precise interpretation of MALDI-IMS measurements only. This greatly speeds up spatial proteomic analyses and allows the detection of local protein variations within the same population of cells. The method's general applicability has the potential to be used to investigate different biological conditions and tissues and a much higher throughput than other techniques making it a promising approach for clinical routine applications.
PXD041188	38997433	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic landscape of rice reveals a post-transcriptional regulatory role of N(6)-methyladenosine. 	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic landscape of rice reveals a post-transcriptional regulatory role of N6-methyladenosine	Rice proteomic	Rice is one of the most important staple food and model species in plant biology, yet its quantitative proteomes are largely uncharacterized. Here we quantify the relative protein levels of over 15,000 genes across major rice tissues using a tandem mass tag strategy followed by intensive fractionation and mass spectrometry. We identify tissue-specific and tissue-enriched proteins that are linked to the functional specificity of individual tissues. Proteogenomic comparison of rice and Arabidopsis reveals conserved proteome expression, which differs from mammals in that there is a strong separation of species rather than tissues. Notably, profiling of N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) across the rice major tissues shows that m(6)A at untranslated regions is negatively correlated with protein abundance and contributes to the discordance between RNA and protein levels. We also demonstrate that our data are valuable for identifying novel genes required for regulating m(6)A methylation. Taken together, this study provides a paradigm for further research into rice proteogenome.
PXD052560	38998112	Proteomic Identification and Quantification of Basal Endogenous Proteins in the Ileal Digesta of Growing Pigs. 	Proteomic Identification and Quantification of Basal Endogenous Proteins in the ileal Digesta of Growing Pigs	basal endogenous losses, casein diet, nitrogen-free diet, pigs	The accurate estimation of basal endogenous losses (BEL) of amino acids at the ileum is indispensable to improve nutrient utilization efficiency. This study used a quantitative proteomic approach to identify variations in BEL in the ileal digesta of growing pigs fed a nitrogen-free diet (NFD) or a casein diet (CAS). Eight barrow pigs (39.8 +/- 6.3 kg initial body weight (BW)) were randomly assigned to a 2 x 2 crossover design. A total of 348 proteins were identified and quantified in both treatments, of which 101 showed a significant differential abundance between the treatments (p < 0.05). Functional and pathway enrichment analyses revealed that the endogenous proteins were associated with intestinal metabolic function. Furthermore, differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in the digesta of pigs fed the NFD enriched terms and pathways that suggest intestinal inflammation, the activation of innate antimicrobial host defense, an increase in cellular autophagy and epithelial turnover, and reduced synthesis of pancreatic and intestinal secretions. These findings suggest that casein diets may provide a more accurate estimation of BEL because they promote normal gastrointestinal secretions. Overall, proteomic and bioinformatic analyses provided valuable insights into the composition of endogenous proteins in the ileal digesta and their relationship with the functions, processes, and pathways modified by diet composition.
PXD049688	39000114	The Urinary Glycopeptide Profile Differentiates Early Cardiorenal Risk in Subjects Not Meeting Criteria for Chronic Kidney Disease. 	urinary glycopeptide profile differentiates early cardiorenal risk in subjects not meeting criteria for chronic kidney disease	Urine, albuminuria, chronic kidney disease, early cardiorenal risk, glycopeptide	Early diagnosis and treatment of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a worldwide challenge. Subjects with albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) >= 30 mg/g and preserved renal function are considered to be at no cardiorenal risk in clinical practice, but prospective clinical studies evidence increased risk, even at the high-normal (HN) ACR range (10-30 mg/g), supporting the need to identify other molecular indicators for early assessment of patients at higher risk. Following our previous studies, here we aim to stratify the normoalbuminuria range according to cardiorenal risk and identify the glycoproteins and N-glycosylation sites associated with kidney damage in subclinical CKD. Glycoproteins were analyzed in urine from hypertensive patients within the HN ACR range compared to control group (C; ACR < 10 mg/g) by mass spectrometry. A different cohort was analyzed for confirmation (ELISA) and sex perspective was evaluated. Patients' follow-up for 8 years since basal urine collection revealed higher renal function decline and ACR progression for HN patients. Differential N-glycopeptides and their N -glycosylation sites were also identified, together with their pathogenicity. N-glycosylation may condition pathological protein deregulation, and a panel of 62 glycoproteins evidenced alteration in normoalbuminuric subjects within the HN range. Haptoglobin-related protein, haptoglobin, afamin, transferrin, and immunoglobulin heavy constant gamma 1 (IGHG1) and 2 (IGHG2) showed increased levels in HN patients, pointing to disturbed iron metabolism and tubular reabsorption and supporting the tubule as a target of interest in the early progression of CKD. When analyzed separately, haptoglobin, afamin, transferrin, and IGHG2 remained significant in HN, in both women and men. At the peptide level, 172 N-glycopeptides showed differential abundance in HN patients, and 26 showed high pathogenicity, 10 of them belonging to glycoproteins that do not show variation between HN and C groups. This study highlights the value of glycosylation in subjects not meeting KDIGO criteria for CKD. The identified N-glycopeptides and glycosylation sites showed novel targets, for both the early assessment of individual cardiorenal risk and for intervention aimed at anticipating CKD progression.
PXD052292	39000163	Proteomic Analysis of Human Macrophages Overexpressing Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme. 	Proteomic analysis of human macrophages overexpressing angiotensin-converting enzyme	ACE, Angiotensin, SWATH, protein function, protein inhibitor	Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) exerts strong modulation of myeloid cell function independently of its cardiovascular arm. The success of the ACE-overexpressing murine macrophage model, ACE 10/10, in treating microbial infections and cancer opens a new avenue into whether ACE overexpression in human macrophages shares these benefits. Additionally, as ACE inhibitors are a widely used antihypertensive medication, their impact on ACE expressing immune cells is of interest and currently understudied. In the present study, we utilized mass spectrometry to characterize and assess global proteomic changes in an ACE-overexpressing human THP-1 cell line. Additionally, proteomic changes and cellular uptake following treatment with an ACE C-domain selective inhibitor, lisinopril-tryptophan, were also assessed. ACE activity was significantly reduced following inhibitor treatment, despite limited uptake within the cell, and both RNA processing and immune pathways were significantly dysregulated with treatment. Also present were upregulated energy and TCA cycle proteins and dysregulated cytokine and interleukin signaling proteins with ACE overexpression. A novel, functionally enriched immune pathway that appeared both with ACE overexpression and inhibitor treatment was neutrophil degranulation. ACE overexpression within human macrophages showed similarities with ACE 10/10 murine macrophages, paving the way for mechanistic studies aimed at understanding the altered immune function.
PXD052185	39000458	B Cell Lymphocytes as a Potential Source of Breast Carcinoma Marker Candidates. 	B cell lymphocytes as a potential source of breast carcinoma marker candidates	CD19+ marker, breast cancer, lymphocyte B, peripheral blood, proteomic analysis	Despite advances in the genomic classification of breast cancer, current clinical tests and treatment decisions are commonly based on protein-level information. Nowadays breast cancer clinical treatment selection is based on the immunohistochemical (IHC) determination of four protein biomarkers: Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1), Progesterone Receptor (PGR), Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2), and proliferation marker Ki-67. The prognostic correlation of tumor-infiltrating T cells has been widely studied in breast cancer, but tumor-infiltrating B cells have not received so much attention. We aimed to find a correlation between immunohistochemical results and a proteomic approach in measuring the expression of proteins isolated from B-cell lymphocytes in peripheral blood samples. Shotgun proteomic analysis was chosen for its key advantage over other proteomic methods, which is its comprehensive and untargeted approach to analyzing proteins. This approach facilitates better characterization of disease-associated changes at the protein level. We identified 18 proteins in B cell lymphocytes with a significant fold change of more than 2, which have promising potential to serve as breast cancer biomarkers in the future.
PXD041146	39001700	Optimized AF4 combined with density cushion ultracentrifugation enables profiling of high-purity human blood extracellular vesicles. 	Proteomic of human plasma and serum-derived EVs	extracellular vesicles, plasma, serum	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as a promising tool for clinical liquid biopsy. However, the identification of EVs derived from blood samples is hindered by the presence of abundant plasma proteins, which impairs the downstream biochemical analysis of EV-associated proteins and nucleic acids. Here, we employed optimized asymmetric flow field-flow fractionation (AF4) combined with density cushion ultracentrifugation (UC) to obtain high-purity and intact EVs with very low lipoprotein contamination from human plasma and serum. Further proteomic analysis revealed more than 1000 EV-associated proteins, a large proportion of which has not been previously reported. Specifically, we found that cell-line-derived EV markers are incompatible with the identification of plasma-EVs and proposed that the proteins MYCT1, TSPAN14, MPIG6B and MYADM, as well as the traditional EV markers CD63 and CD147, are plasma-EV markers. Benefiting from the high-purity of EVs, we conducted comprehensive miRNA profiling of plasma EVs and nanosized particles (NPs), as well as compared plasma- and serum-derived EVs, which provides a valuable resource for the EV research community. Overall, our findings provide a comprehensive assessment of human blood EVs as a basis for clinical biopsy applications.
PXD048942	39001877	Structural Mass Spectrometry Captures Residue-Resolved Comprehensive Conformational Rearrangements of a G Protein-Coupled Receptor. 	Structural mass spectrometry captures residue-resolved comprehensive conformational rearrangements of a G protein-coupled receptor	GPCR, LiP-MS, adenosing 2A receptor, structural mass spectrometry	G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) structural studies with in-solution spectroscopic approaches have offered distinctive insights into GPCR activation and signaling that highly complement those yielded from structural snapshots by crystallography or cryo-EM. While most current spectroscopic approaches allow for probing structural changes at selected residues or loop regions, they are not suitable for capturing a holistic view of GPCR conformational rearrangements across multiple domains. Herein, we develop an approach based on limited proteolysis mass spectrometry (LiP-MS) to simultaneously monitor conformational alterations of a large number of residues spanning both flexible loops and structured transmembrane domains for a given GPCR. To benchmark LiP-MS for GPCR conformational profiling, we studied the adenosine 2A receptor (A2AR) in response to different ligand binding (agonist/antagonist/allosteric modulators) and G protein coupling. Systematic and residue-resolved profiling of A2AR conformational rearrangements by LiP-MS precisely captures structural mechanisms in multiple domains underlying ligand engagement, receptor activation, and allostery, and may also reflect local conformational flexibility. Furthermore, these residue-resolution structural fingerprints of the A2AR protein allow us to readily classify ligands of different pharmacology and distinguish the G protein-coupled state. Thus, our study provides a new structural MS approach that would be generalizable to characterizing conformational transition and plasticity for challenging integral membrane proteins.
PXD048167	39002312	Proteome overview of exosome derived from plasma of cows infected with Mycobacterium bovis. 	Proteome overview of exosome derived from plasma of cows infected with Mycobacterium bovis	bovine tuberculosis, plasma exosome	Bovine tuberculosis (bTB), primarily caused by Mycobacterium bovis (M. bovis), is a globally zoonotic disease with significant economic impacts. Plasma exosomes have been extensively used for investigating disease processes and exploring biomarkers. While mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic analysis of plasma exosomes has been employed for human tuberculosis (TB) studies, it has not yet been applied to bTB. Therefore, a comprehensive proteomic overview of plasma exosomes from M. bovis-infected cows is essential. In this study, we presented an extensive proteomic analysis of plasma exosomes from 89 M. bovis-infected cows across three farms, using data dependent acquisition (DDA) mode. Our analysis encompasses 239,894 spectra, 6,011 peptides and 835 proteins. The proteomic overview revealed both consistencies and differences among individual cows, supplements 595 proteins to the bovine exosome library, and enriches tuberculosis and related pathways. Additionally, six pathways were validated as immune response pathways, and three proteins (CATHL1, H1-1, and LCN2) were identified as potential indicators of bTB. This study is the first to investigate the exosome proteome of plasma from cows infected with M. bovis, providing a valuable dataset for exploring candidate bTB markers and understanding the mechanisms of host defense against M. bovis.
PXD042008	39002676	MLL-AF9 regulates transcriptional initiation in mixed lineage leukemic cells. 	Identification of AF9-associated proteins by IP and mass spectrometry	AF9, HEL cells, Immunoprecipitation	MLL-fusion proteins (MLL-FPs) are believed to maintain gene activation and induce mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) through aberrantly stimulating transcriptional elongation, but the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here we show that both MLL1 and AF9, one of the major fusion partners of MLL1, mainly occupy promoters and distal intergenic regions, exhibiting chromatin occupancy patterns resembling that of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) in HEL, a human cell line without MLL1 arrangement (MLLr). MLL1 and AF9 only co-regulate over a dozen genes despite of their co-occupancy on thousands of genes. They do not interact with each other, and their chromatin occupancy is also independent of each other. Moreover, AF9 deficiency in HEL cells decreases global TBP occupancy while decreases CDK9 occupancy on a small number of genes, suggesting an accessory role of AF9 in CDK9 recruitment and a possible major role in transcriptional initiation via initiation factor recruitment. Importantly, MLL1 and MLL-AF9 occupy promoters and distal intergenic regions, exhibiting identical chromatin occupancy patterns in MLL cells, and MLL-AF9 deficiency decreased occupancy of TBP and TFIIE on major target genes of MLL-AF9 in iMA9, a murine acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line inducibly expressing MLL-AF9, suggesting that it can also regulate initiation. These results suggest that there is no difference between MLL1 and MLL-AF9 with respect to location and size of occupancy sites, contrary to what people have believed, and that MLL-AF9 may also regulate transcriptional initiation in addition to widely-believed elongation.
PXD052268	39003020	Control of cyanobacterial growth with potassium; implications for bloom control in nuclear storage ponds. 	Control of cyanobacterial growth with potassium; implications for bloom control in nuclear storage ponds	chemostat, cyanobacteria, potassium, pseduanabaena, sodium, spent nuclear fuel ponds	Microbial blooms have been reported in the First Generation Magnox Storage Pond at the Sellafield Nuclear Facility. The pond is kept alkaline with NaOH to minimise fuel rod corrosion, however alkali-tolerant microbial blooms dominated by the cyanobacterium Pseudanabaena catenata are able to thrive in this hostile environment. This study assessed the impact of alternative alkali-dosing regimens (KOH versus NaOH treatment) on biomass accumulation, using a P. catenata dominated mixed culture, which is representative of the pond environment. Optical density was reduced by 40-67 % with KOH treatment over the 3-month chemostat experiment. Microbial community analysis and proteomics demonstrated that the KOH-dependent inhibition of cell growth was mostly specific to P. catenata. The addition of KOH to nuclear storage ponds may therefore help control growth of this pioneer photosynthetic organism due to its sensitivity to potassium, while maintaining the high pH needed to inhibit the corrosion of stored nuclear fuel.
PXD049300	39003270	An extended interaction site determines binding between AP180 and AP2 in clathrin mediated endocytosis. 	A novel interaction site determines binding between AP180 and AP2 in clathrin mediated endocytosis	Extended AP180:AP2beta2 interaction, XL-MS	The early phases of clathrin mediated endocytosis are organized through a highly complex interaction network mediated by clathrin associated sorting proteins (CLASPs) that comprise long intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). AP180 is a CLASP exclusively expressed in neurons and comprises a long IDR of around 600 residues, whose function remains partially elusive. Using NMR spectroscopy, we discovered an extended and strong interaction site within AP180 with the major adaptor protein AP2, and describe its binding dynamics at atomic resolution. We find that the 70 residue-long site determines the overall interaction between AP180 and AP2 in a dynamic equilibrium between its bound and unbound states, while weaker binding sites contribute to the overall affinity at much higher concentrations of AP2. Our data suggest that this particular interaction site might play a central role in recruitment of adaptors to the clathrin coated pit, whereas more transient and promiscuous interactions allow reshaping of the interaction network until cargo uptake inside a coated vesicle.
PXD053450	39004188	A carrier-based quantitative proteomics method applied to biomarker discovery in pericardial fluid. 	A carrier-based quantitative proteomics method applied to biomarker discovery in pericardial fluid	biomarker discovery, carrier proteome, single-cell proteomics	Data-dependent liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) is challenged by the large concentration range of proteins in plasma and related fluids. We adapted the SCoPE method from single-cell proteomics to pericardial fluid, where a myocardial tissue carrier was used to aid protein quantification. The carrier proteome and patient samples were labeled with distinct isobaric labels, which allowed separate quantification. Undepleted pericardial fluid from patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and/or heart failure undergoing heart surgery was analyzed with either a traditional LC-MS/MS method or with the carrier proteome. In total, 1398 proteins were quantified with a carrier, compared to 265 without, and a higher proportion of these proteins were of myocardial origin. The number of differentially expressed proteins also increased nearly four-fold. For patients with both heart failure and type 2 diabetes mellitus, pathway analysis of upregulated proteins demonstrated enrichment of immune activation, blood coagulation, and stress pathways. Overall, our work demonstrates the applicability of a carrier for enhanced protein quantification in challenging biological matrices such as pericardial fluid, with potential applications for biomarker discovery. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD053450.
PXD046843	39004727	Unraveling the differential mechanisms of revascularization promoted by MSCs & ECFCs from adipose tissue or umbilical cord in a murine model of critical limb-threatening ischemia. 	Unraveling the differential mechanisms of revascularization promoted by MSCs & ECFCs from adipose tissue or umbilical cord in a murine model of critical limb-threatening ischemia.	ECFCs, MSCs, adipose tissue, cell therapy, critical limb-threatening ischemia	BACKGROUND: Critical limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) constitutes the most severe manifestation of peripheral artery disease, usually induced by atherosclerosis. CLTI patients suffer from high risk of amputation of the lower extremities and elevated mortality rates, while they have low options for surgical revascularization due to associated comorbidities. Alternatively, cell-based therapeutic strategies represent an effective and safe approach to promote revascularization. However, the variability seen in several factors such as cell combinations or doses applied, have limited their success in clinical trials, being necessary to reach a consensus regarding the optimal "cellular-cocktail" prior further application into the clinic. To achieve so, it is essential to understand the mechanisms by which these cells exert their regenerative properties. Herein, we have evaluated, for the first time, the regenerative and vasculogenic potential of a combination of endothelial colony forming cells (ECFCs) and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) isolated from adipose-tissue (AT), compared with ECFCs from umbilical cord blood (CB-ECFCs) and AT-MSCs, in a murine model of CLTI. METHODS: Balb-c nude mice (n:32) were distributed in four different groups (n:8/group): control shams, and ischemic mice (after femoral ligation) that received 50 microl of physiological serum alone or a cellular combination of AT-MSCs with either CB-ECFCs or AT-ECFCs. Follow-up of blood flow reperfusion and ischemic symptoms was carried out for 21 days, when mice were sacrificed to evaluate vascular density formation. Moreover, the long-term molecular changes in response to CLTI and both cell combinations were analyzed in a proteomic quantitative approach. RESULTS: AT-MSCs with either AT- or CB-ECFCs, promoted a significant recovery of blood flow in CLTI mice 21 days post-ischemia. Besides, they modulated the inflammatory and necrotic related processes, although the CB group presented the slowest ischemic progression along the assay. Moreover, many proteins involved in the repairing mechanisms promoted by cell treatments were identified. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of AT-MSCs with AT-ECFCs or with CB-ECFCs promoted similar revascularization in CLTI mice, by restoring blood flow levels, together with the modulation of the inflammatory and necrotic processes, and reduction of muscle damage. The protein changes identified are representative of the molecular mechanisms involved in ECFCs and MSCs-induced revascularization (immune response, vascular repair, muscle regeneration, etc.).
PXD052791	39005291	Neonatal microbiota colonization drives maturation of primary and secondary goblet cell mediated protection in the pre-weaning colon. 	Proteomic analysis of neonatal rats distal colon mucus	LFQ proteomics, colon, mass-spectrometry, mucus, rats	In the distal colon, mucus secreting goblet cells primarily confer protection from luminal microorganisms via generation of a sterile inner mucus layer barrier structure. Bacteria-sensing sentinel goblet cells provide a secondary defensive mechanism that orchestrates mucus secretion in response to microbes that breach the mucus barrier. Previous reports have identified mucus barrier deficiencies in adult germ-free mice, thus implicating a fundamental role for the microbiota in programming mucus barrier generation. In this study, we have investigated the natural neonatal development of the mucus barrier and sentinel goblet cell-dependent secretory responses upon postnatal colonization. Combined in vivo and ex vivo analyses of pre- and post-weaning colonic mucus barrier and sentinel goblet cell maturation demonstrated a sequential microbiota-dependent development of these primary and secondary goblet cell-intrinsic protective functions, with dynamic changes in mucus processing dependent on innate immune signalling via MyD88, and development of functional sentinel goblet cells dependent on the NADPH/Dual oxidase family member Duox2. Our findings therefore identify new mechanisms of microbiota-goblet cell regulatory interaction and highlight the critical importance of the pre-weaning period for the normal development of colonic barrier function.
PXD052936	39005324	Protease shaving of Mycobacterium tuberculosis facilitates vaccine antigen discovery and delivery of novel cargoes to the Mtb surface. 	Mycobacterium tuberculosis surface proteomics	Mtb, surface	Tuberculosis (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), is the leading cause of infectious disease death and lacks a vaccine capable of protecting adults from pulmonary TB. Studies have shown that Mtb uses a variety of mechanisms to evade host immunity. Secreted Mtb proteins such as Type VII secretion system substrates have been characterized for their ability to modulate anti-Mtb immunity; however, studies of other pathogens such as Salmonella Typhi and Staphylococcus aureus have revealed that outer membrane proteins can also interact with the innate and adaptive immune system. The Mtb outer membrane proteome has received relatively less attention due to limited techniques available to interrogate this compartment. We filled this gap by deploying protease shaving and quantitative mass spectrometry to identify Mtb outer membrane proteins which serve as nodes in the Mtb-host interaction network. These analyses revealed several novel Mtb proteins on the Mtb surface largely derived from the PE/PPE class of Mtb proteins, including PPE18, a component of a leading Mtb vaccine candidate. We next exploited the localization of PPE18 to decorate the Mtb surface with heterologous proteins and deliver these surface-engineered Mtb to the phagosome. Together, these studies reveal potential novel targets for new Mtb vaccines as well as facilitate new approaches to study difficult to study cellular compartments during infection.
PXD047391	39005815	Proteome Alterations and Nucleosome Activation in Rat Myoblasts Treated with Cerium Oxide Nanoparticles. 	Impact of Cerium Oxide Nanoparticles on Rat Myoblast Proteome	nanoceria, nanoparticles	Oxidative stress is a widespread causative agent of disease. Together with its general relevance for biomedicine, such a dynamic is recognizably detrimental to space exploration. Among other solutions, cerium oxide nanoparticles (or nanoceria, NC) display a long-lasting, self-renewable antioxidant activity. In a previous experiment, we evaluated oxidative imbalance in rat myoblasts in space, aboard the International Space Station, and unveiled possible protective effects from NC through RNA sequencing. Here, we focus on the myoblast response to NC on land by means of proteomics, defining a list of proteins that putatively react to NC and confirming nucleosomes/histones as likely mediators of its molecular action. The proteomics data set we present here and its counterpart from the space study share four factors. These are coherently either up- (Hist1h4b) or down-regulated (Gnl3, Mtdh, Trip12) upon NC exposure.
PXD035276	39007270	Multiscale modeling uncovers 7q11.23 copy number variation-dependent changes in ribosomal biogenesis and neuronal maturation and excitability. 	Proteomics investigation of alterations driven by 7q11.23 CNVs in neurons	neuron	Copy number variation (CNV) at 7q11.23 causes Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS) and 7q microduplication syndrome (7Dup), neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) featuring intellectual disability accompanied by symmetrically opposite neurocognitive features. Although significant progress has been made in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying 7q11.23-related pathophysiology, the propagation of CNV dosage across gene expression layers and their interplay remains elusive. Here we uncovered 7q11.23 dosage-dependent symmetrically opposite dynamics in neuronal differentiation and intrinsic excitability. By integrating transcriptomics, translatomics, and proteomics of patient-derived and isogenic induced neurons, we found that genes related to neuronal transmission follow 7q11.23 dosage and are transcriptionally controlled, while translational factors and ribosomal genes are posttranscriptionally buffered. Consistently, we found phosphorylated RPS6 (p-RPS6) downregulated in WBS and upregulated in 7Dup. Surprisingly, p-4EBP was changed in the opposite direction, reflecting dosage-specific changes in total 4EBP levels. This highlights different dosage-sensitive dyregulations of the mTOR pathway as well as distinct roles of p-RPS6 and p-4EBP during neurogenesis. Our work demonstrates the importance of multiscale disease modeling across molecular and functional layers, uncovers the pathophysiological relevance of ribosomal biogenesis in a paradigmatic pair of NDDs, and uncouples the roles of p-RPS6 and p-4EBP as mechanistically actionable relays in NDDs.
PXD049429	39007905	Site-Specific Glycosylation Analysis of Human and Murine Fcgamma Receptor II Family Members Reveals Variant-Specific N-Glycosylation. 	Site-Specific Glycosylation Analysis of Murine and Human Fc Receptors IIA and IIB.	Fcgamma Receptor, Glycoproteomic, N-glycosylation, O-glycosylation, Relative Abundance.	Fcgamma-receptors (FcgammaRs) including FcgammaRII (CD32) gene family members are expressed on leukocytes, bind the crystallizable fragment (Fc) region of immunoglobulin G (IgG), and bridge humoral and cellular immunity. FcgammaRIIA and FcgammaRIIB have opposing roles, with the former responsible for activation and the latter for inhibition of immune cell signaling and effector functions. The extracellular domains of human and murine FcgammaRIIs share multiple conserved N-glycosylation sites. Understanding the role(s) of FcgammaRIIA and FcgammaRIIB glycosylation in autoimmune diseases is precluded by a lack of effective methods to study disease-associated changes in glycosylation. To address this barrier, we developed a method to assess site-specific glycosylation of human FcgammaRIIA and FcgammaRIIB, and the mouse ortholog of human FcgammaRIIB. Among the receptors, conserved glycosylation sites are compared, with the N144/145 site displaying predominantly complex glycans in recombinant FcgammaRIIs. Differences in sialylation between recombinant human FcgammaRIIA H/R134 (H/R131) variants at a nearby N145 N-glycosylation site are reported. Further, a potential human FcgammaRIIA O-glycosylation site, S179 (S212), is reported in recombinant FcgammaRIIA. The robust method to assess site-specific glycosylation of FcgammaRIIs reported here, can be utilized to study the potential role of FcgammaRII family glycosylation in disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD049429.
PXD047407	39007910	Lassa virus Z protein hijacks the autophagy machinery for efficient transportation by interrupting CCT2-mediated cytoskeleton network formation. 	Mouse neuroblastoma cell LC-MS/MS	N2a cells	The Lassa virus (LASV) is a widely recognized virulent pathogen that frequently results in lethal viral hemorrhagic fever (VHF). Earlier research has indicated that macroautophagy/autophagy plays a role in LASV replication, but, the precise mechanism is unknown. In this present study, we show that LASV matrix protein (LASV-Z) is essential for blocking intracellular autophagic flux. LASV-Z hinders actin and tubulin folding by interacting with CCT2, a component of the chaperonin-containing T-complexes (TRiC). When the cytoskeleton is disrupted, lysosomal enzyme transit is hampered. In addition, cytoskeleton disruption inhibits the merge of autophagosomes with lysosomes, resulting in autophagosome accumulation that promotes the budding of LASV virus-like particles (VLPs). Inhibition of LASV-Z-induced autophagosome accumulation blocks the LASV VLP budding process. Furthermore, it is found that glutamine at position 29 and tyrosine at position 48 on LASV-Z are important in interacting with CCT2. When these two sites are mutated, LASV-mut interacts with CCT2 less efficiently and can no longer inhibit the autophagic flux. These findings demonstrate a novel strategy for LASV-Z to hijack the host autophagy machinery to accomplish effective transportation.
PXD044103	39008676	Conformational dynamics underlying atypical chemokine receptor 3 activation. 	Conformational dynamics underlying Atypical Chemokine Receptor 3 activation	GPCR, HDX-MS, MD	Atypical Chemokine Receptor 3 (ACKR3) belongs to the G protein-coupled receptor family but it does not signal through G proteins. The structural properties that govern the functional selectivity and the conformational dynamics of ACKR3 activation are poorly understood. Here, we combined hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, site-directed mutagenesis, and molecular dynamics simulations to examine the binding mode and mechanism of action of ACKR3 ligands of different efficacies. Our results show that activation or inhibition of ACKR3 is governed by intracellular conformational changes of helix 6, intracellular loop 2, and helix 7, while the DRY motif becomes protected during both processes. Moreover, we identified the binding sites and the allosteric modulation of ACKR3 upon beta-arrestin 1 binding. In summary, this study highlights the structure-function relationship of small ligands, the binding mode of beta-arrestin 1, the activation dynamics, and the atypical dynamic features in ACKR3 that may contribute to its inability to activate G proteins.
PXD046146	39008679	Rab10-CAV1 mediated intraluminal vesicle transport to migrasomes. 	Rab10-CAV1 mediated intraluminal vesicles transport to migrasomes	Rab10-CAV1, vesicles migrasomes	Migrasomes, vesicular organelles generated on the retraction fibers of migrating cells, play a crucial role in migracytosis, mediating intercellular communication. The cargoes determine the functional specificity of migrasomes. Migrasomes harbor numerous intraluminal vesicles, a pivotal component of their cargoes. The mechanism underlying the transportation of these intraluminal vesicles to the migrasomes remains enigmatic. In this study, we identified that Rab10 and Caveolin-1 (CAV1) mark the intraluminal vesicles in migrasomes. Transport of Rab10-CAV1 vesicles to migrasomes required the motor protein Myosin Va and adaptor proteins RILPL2. Notably, the phosphorylation of Rab10 by the kinase LRRK2 regulated this process. Moreover, CSF-1 can be transported to migrasomes through this mechanism, subsequently fostering monocyte-macrophage differentiation in skin wound healing, which served as a proof of the physiological importance of this transporting mechanism.
PXD051495	39009675	Cytokinetic abscission in Toxoplasma gondii is governed by protein phosphatase 2A and the daughter cell scaffold complex. 	Cytokinetic Abscission in Toxoplasma gondii is governed by Protein Phosphatase 2A and the Daughter Cell Scaffold Complex	LC-ESI- MS/MS, PP2A complex, Toxoplasma gondii, cellular abscission, tachyzoites	Cytokinetic abscission marks the final stage of cell division, during which the daughter cells physically separate through the generation of new barriers, such as the plasma membrane or cell wall. While the contractile ring plays a central role during cytokinesis in bacteria, fungi and animal cells, the process diverges in Apicomplexa. In Toxoplasma gondii, two daughter cells are formed within the mother cell by endodyogeny. The mechanism by which the progeny cells acquire their plasma membrane during the disassembly of the mother cell, allowing daughter cells to emerge, remains unknown. Here we identify and characterize five T. gondii proteins, including three protein phosphatase 2A subunits, which exhibit a distinct and dynamic localization pattern during parasite division. Individual downregulation of these proteins prevents the accumulation of plasma membrane at the division plane, preventing the completion of cellular abscission. Remarkably, the absence of cytokinetic abscission does not hinder the completion of subsequent division cycles. The resulting progeny are able to egress from the infected cells but fail to glide and invade, except in cases of conjoined twin parasites.
PXD027542	39009887	DiPRO1 distinctly reprograms muscle and mesenchymal cancer cells. 	ZNF555  interaction partners in humans rhabdomyosarcoma cells	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), TE671, transcription factor	We have recently identified the uncharacterized ZNF555 protein as a component of a productive complex involved in the morbid function of the 4qA locus in facioscapulohumeral dystrophy. Subsequently named DiPRO1 (Death, Differentiation, and PROliferation related PROtein 1), our study provides substantial evidence of its role in the differentiation and proliferation of human myoblasts. DiPRO1 operates through the regulatory binding regions of SIX1, a master regulator of myogenesis. Its relevance extends to mesenchymal tumors, such as rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) and Ewing sarcoma, where DiPRO1 acts as a repressor via the epigenetic regulators TIF1B and UHRF1, maintaining methylation of cis-regulatory elements and gene promoters. Loss of DiPRO1 mimics the host defense response to virus, awakening retrotransposable repeats and the ZNF/KZFP gene family. This enables the eradication of cancer cells, reprogramming the cellular decision balance towards inflammation and/or apoptosis by controlling TNF-alpha via NF-kappaB signaling. Finally, our results highlight the vulnerability of mesenchymal cancer tumors to si/shDiPRO1-based nanomedicines, positioning DiPRO1 as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD047119	39010233	TGFbeta signaling pathway is altered by HLA-B27 expression, resulting in pathogenic consequences relevant for spondyloarthritis. 	HLA-B27 interferes with TGF-beta/activin signaling in Drosophila and rat transgenic models, resulting in pathogenic consequences relevant for spondyloarthritis.	BMP/TGFbeta pathway, CD4+ T cells, Drosophila, HLA Peptidome, HLA-B27, Spondyloarthritis, rat	BACKGROUND: Association of HLA-B27 with spondyloarthritis (SpA) has been known for 50 years, but still remains unexplained. We recently showed that HLA-B27 expressed in wing imaginal disc from HLA-B27/human-beta2 microglobulin (hbeta2m) transgenic Drosophila deregulated bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) pathway by interacting physically with type I BMP receptor (BMPR1) Saxophone (Sax), leading to crossveinless phenotype. METHODS: Genetic interaction was studied between activin/transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) pathway and HLA-B27/hbeta2m in transgenic Drosophila wings. The HLA-B27-bound peptidome was characterized in wing imaginal discs. In mesenteric lymph node (mLN) T cells from HLA-B27/hbeta2m rat (B27 rat), physical interaction between HLA-B27 and activin receptor-like kinase-2 (ALK2), ALK3 and ALK5 BMPR1s, phosphorylation of small mothers against decapentaplegic (SMADs) and proteins of the non-canonical BMP/TGFbeta pathways induced by its ligands, and the transcript level of target genes of the TGFbeta pathway, were evaluated. RESULTS: In HLA-B27/hbeta2m transgenic Drosophila, inappropriate signalling through the activin/TGFbeta pathway, involving Baboon (Babo), the type I activin/TGFbeta receptor, contributed to the crossveinless phenotype, in addition to deregulated BMP pathway. We identified peptides bound to HLA-B27 with the canonical binding motif in HLA-B27/hbeta2m transgenic Drosophila wing imaginal disc. We demonstrated specific physical interaction, between HLA-B27/hbeta2m and mammalian orthologs of Sax and Babo, i.e. ALK2 and ALK5 (i.e. TGFbeta receptor I), in the mLN cells from B27 rat. The magnitude of phosphorylation of SMAD2/3 in response to TGFbeta1 was increased in T cells from B27 rats, showing evidence for deregulated TGFbeta pathway. Accordingly, expression of several target genes of the pathway was increased in T cells from B27 rats, in basal conditions and/or after TGFbeta exposure, including Foxp3, Rorc, Runx1 and Maf. Interestingly, Tgfb1 expression was reduced in naive T cells from B27 rats, even premorbid, an observation consistent with a pro-inflammatory pattern. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that HLA-B27 alters the TGFbeta pathways in Drosophila and B27 rat. Given the importance of this pathway in CD4 + T cells differentiation and regulation, its disturbance could contribute to the abnormal expansion of pro-inflammatory T helper 17 cells and altered regulatory T cell phenotype observed in B27 rats.
PXD053480	39011894	The RNA helicase DDX39 contributes to the nuclear export of spliceosomal U snRNA by loading of PHAX onto RNA. 	Proteins that interact with PHAX and UAP56 from HeLa nuclear extracts	GST pull-down, HeLa nuclear extract, immunoprecipitation	RNA helicases are involved in RNA metabolism in an ATP-dependent manner. Although many RNA helicases unwind the RNA structure and/or remove proteins from the RNA, some can load their interacting proteins onto RNAs. Here, we developed an in vitro strategy to identify the ATP-dependent factors involved in spliceosomal uridine-rich small nuclear RNA (U snRNA) export. We identified the RNA helicase UAP56/DDX39B, a component of the mRNA export complex named the transcription-export (TREX) complex, and its closely related RNA helicase URH49/DDX39A as the factors that stimulated RNA binding of PHAX, an adapter protein for U snRNA export. ALYREF, another TREX component, acted as a bridge between PHAX and UAP56/DDX39B. We also showed that UAP56/DDX39B and ALYREF participate in U snRNA export through a mechanism distinct from that of mRNA export. This study describes a novel aspect of the TREX components for U snRNP biogenesis and highlights the loading activity of RNA helicases.
PXD050904	39012054	IS-PRM-Based Peptide Targeting Informed by Long-Read Sequencing for Alternative Proteome Detection. 	Long-read Proteogenomics Internal Standard triggered PRM (LRP-IS-PRM)	IS-PRM, Proteogenomics, Tomahto	Alternative splicing is a major contributor of transcriptomic complexity, but the extent to which transcript isoforms are translated into stable, functional protein isoforms is unclear. Furthermore, detection of relatively scarce isoform-specific peptides is challenging, with many protein isoforms remaining uncharted due to technical limitations. Recently, a family of advanced targeted MS strategies, termed internal standard parallel reaction monitoring (IS-PRM), have demonstrated multiplexed, sensitive detection of predefined peptides of interest. Such approaches have not yet been used to confirm existence of novel peptides. Here, we present a targeted proteogenomic approach that leverages sample-matched long-read RNA sequencing (lrRNA-seq) data to predict potential protein isoforms with prior transcript evidence. Predicted tryptic isoform-specific peptides, which are specific to individual gene product isoforms, serve as "triggers" and "targets" in the IS-PRM method, Tomahto. Using the model human stem cell line WTC11, LR RNaseq data were generated and used to inform the generation of synthetic standards for 192 isoform-specific peptides (114 isoforms from 55 genes). These synthetic "trigger" peptides were labeled with super heavy tandem mass tags (TMT) and spiked into TMT-labeled WTC11 tryptic digest, predicted to contain corresponding endogenous "target" peptides. Compared to DDA mode, Tomahto increased detectability of isoforms by 3.6-fold, resulting in the identification of five previously unannotated isoforms. Our method detected protein isoform expression for 43 out of 55 genes corresponding to 54 resolved isoforms. This lrRNA-seq-informed Tomahto targeted approach is a new modality for generating protein-level evidence of alternative isoforms-a critical first step in designing functional studies and eventually clinical assays.
PXD052594	39012714	Radioproteomics stratifies molecular response to antifibrotic treatment in pulmonary fibrosis. 	Radioproteomics stratifies molecular response to antifibrotic treatment in pulmonary fibrosis	imaging, interstitial lung disease, lung fibrosis, multiomics, nintedanib, radiomics	Antifibrotic therapy with nintedanib is the clinical mainstay in the treatment of progressive fibrosing interstitial lung disease (ILD). High-dimensional medical image analysis, known as radiomics, provides quantitative insights into organ-scale pathophysiology, generating digital disease fingerprints. Here, we used an integrative analysis of radiomic and proteomic profiles (radioproteomics) to assess whether changes in radiomic signatures can stratify the degree of antifibrotic response to nintedanib in (experimental) fibrosing ILD. Unsupervised clustering of delta radiomic profiles revealed two distinct imaging phenotypes in mice treated with nintedanib, contrary to conventional densitometry readouts, which showed a more uniform response. Integrative analysis of delta radiomics and proteomics demonstrated that these phenotypes reflected different treatment response states, as further evidenced on transcriptional and cellular levels. Importantly, radioproteomics signatures paralleled disease- and drug related biological pathway activity with high specificity, including extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, cell cycle activity, wound healing, and metabolic activity. Evaluation of the preclinical molecular response-defining features, particularly those linked to ECM remodeling, in a cohort of nintedanib-treated fibrosing ILD patients, accurately stratified patients based on their extent of lung function decline. In conclusion, delta radiomics has great potential to serve as a non-invasive and readily accessible surrogate of molecular response phenotypes in fibrosing ILD. This could pave the way for personalized treatment strategies and improved patient outcomes.
PXD053714	39012831	Cell-cell transfer of adaptation traits benefits kin and actor in a cooperative microbe. 	LFQ Analysis of Differential Protein Regulation in Response to Tween-20 Exposure in TwnR mutant Myxococcus xanthus strains	Myxococcus xanthus, detergent resistance, label free quantitation, mutant, time-series	Microbes face many physical, chemical, and biological insults from their environments. In response, cells adapt, but whether they do so cooperatively is poorly understood. Here, we use a model social bacterium, Myxococcus xanthus, to ask whether adapted traits are transferable to naive kin. To do so we isolated cells adapted to detergent stresses and tested for trait transfer. In some cases, strain-mixing experiments increased sibling fitness by transferring adaptation traits. This cooperative behavior depended on a kin recognition system called outer membrane exchange (OME) because mutants defective in OME could not transfer adaptation traits. Strikingly, in mixed stressed populations, the transferred trait also benefited the adapted (actor) cells. This apparently occurred by alleviating a detergent-induced stress response in kin that otherwise killed actor cells. Additionally, this adaptation trait when transferred also conferred resistance against a lipoprotein toxin delivered to targeted kin. Based on these and other findings, we propose a model for stress adaptation and how OME in myxobacteria promotes cellular cooperation in response to environmental stresses.
PXD052735	39013029	Integrated MICROFASP Method with CZE-Based Fractionation Technique and NanoRPLC-ESI-MS/MS for a Comprehensive Proteomics Analysis of a Submicrogram Sample. 	Integrated MICROFASP method with CZE based fractionation technique and nanoRPLC-ESI-MS/MS for comprehensive proteomics analysis of submicrogram sample	MICROFASP method, capillary zone electrophoresis, proteome profiling, submicrogram sample, two dimensional separation	We report a loss-less two-dimensional (2D) separation platform that integrated capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) fractionation and nanoRPLC-ESI-MS/MS for a comprehensive proteomics analysis of a submicrogram sample. Protein digest was injected into the linear polyacrylamide-coated capillary, followed by CZE separation. The schemes for collecting the fractions were carefully optimized to maximize the protein coverage. The peptide fractions were directly eluted into the autosampler insert vials, followed by the nanoRPLC-ESI-MS/MS analysis without lyophilization and redissolution, thus dramatically minimizing sample loss and potential contamination. The integrated platform generated 30,845 unique peptides and 5231 protein groups from 500 ng of a HeLa protein digest within 11.5 h (90 min CZE fractionation plus 10 h LC-MS analysis). Finally, the developed platform was used to analyze the protein digest prepared by the MICROFASP method with 1 mug of cell lysate as the starting material. Three thousand seven hundred ninety-six (N = 2, RSD = 4.95%) protein groups and 20,577 (N = 2, RSD = 7.89%) peptides were identified from only 200 ng of the resulted tryptic digest within 5.5 h. The results indicated that the combination of the MICROFASP method and the developed CZE/nanoRPLC-MS/MS 2D separation platform enabled comprehensive proteome profiling of a submicrogram biological sample. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD052735.
PXD053170	39013105	Immunoaffinity Intact-Mass Spectrometry for the Detection of Endogenous Concentrations of the Acetylated Protein Tumor Biomarker Neuron Specific Enolase. 	Detection of Acetylated Neuron Specific Enolase gamma	Neuron Specific Enolase, PTM, Top-Down, acetylation	Intact-mass spectrometry has huge potential for clinical application, as it enables both quantitative and qualitative analysis of intact proteins and possibly unlocks additional pathophysiological information via, e.g., detection of specific post-translational modifications (PTMs). Such valuable and clinically useful selectivity is typically lost during conventional bottom-up mass spectrometry. We demonstrate an innovative immunoprecipitation protein enrichment assay coupled to ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight high resolution mass spectrometry (UPLC-QToF-HRMS) for the fast and simple identification of the protein tumor marker Neuron Specific Enolase Gamma (NSEgamma) at low endogenous concentrations in human serum. Additionally, using the combination of immunoaffinity purification with intact mass spectrometry, the presence of NSEgamma in an acetylated form in human serum was detected. This highlights the unique potential of immunoaffinity intact mass spectrometry in clinical diagnostics.
PXD051266	39015129	Quantitative mass spectrometry analysis of the injured proximal and distal human digital nerve ends. 	Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Analysis of the Injured Proximal and Distal Human Digital Nerve Ends	Digital nerve injury, Extracellular matrix, Nerve injury pathways, Peripheral nerve injury, Quantitative Mass Spectrometry, Signal transduction	Introduction: Proteomic analysis of injured human peripheral nerves, particularly focusing on events occurring in the proximal and distal nerve ends, remains relatively underexplored. This study aimed to investigate the molecular patterns underlying a digital nerve injury, focusing on differences in protein expression between the proximal and distal nerve ends. Methods: A total of 26 human injured digital nerve samples (24 men; 2 women; median age 47 [30-66] years), harvested during primary nerve repair within 48 h post-injury from proximal and distal nerve ends, were analyzed using mass spectrometry. Results: A total of 3,914 proteins were identified, with 127 proteins showing significant differences in abundance between the proximal and the distal nerve ends. The downregulation of proteins in the distal nerve end was associated with synaptic transmission, autophagy, neurotransmitter regulation, cell adhesion and migration. Conversely, proteins upregulated in the distal nerve end were implicated in cellular stress response, neuromuscular junction stability and muscle contraction, neuronal excitability and neurotransmitter release, synaptic vesicle recycling and axon guidance and angiogenesis. Discussion: Investigation of proteins, with functional annotations analysis, in proximal and the distal ends of human injured digital nerves, revealed dynamic cellular responses aimed at promoting tissue degeneration and restoration, while suppressing non-essential processes.
PXD034224	39015150	Supernumerary proteins of the human mitochondrial ribosomal small subunit are integral for assembly and translation. 	Supernumerary proteins of the mitochondrial ribosomal small subunit are integral for assembly and translation	CRISPR/Cas9, IMS, MIA40/CHCHD4, disulfide relay system, mS37/CHCHD1, mitochondrial disorders, mitochondrial ribosome, translation	Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) have undergone substantial evolutionary structural remodeling accompanied by loss of ribosomal RNA, while acquiring unique protein subunits located on the periphery. We generated CRISPR-mediated knockouts of all 14 unique (mitochondria-specific/supernumerary) human mitoribosomal proteins (snMRPs) in the small subunit to study the effect on mitoribosome assembly and protein synthesis, each leading to a unique mitoribosome assembly defect with variable impact on mitochondrial protein synthesis. Surprisingly, the stability of mS37 was reduced in all our snMRP knockouts of the small and large ribosomal subunits and patient-derived lines with mitoribosome assembly defects. A redox-regulated CX9C motif in mS37 was essential for protein stability, suggesting a potential mechanism to regulate mitochondrial protein synthesis. Together, our findings support a modular assembly of the human mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit mediated by essential supernumerary subunits and identify a redox regulatory role involving mS37 in mitochondrial protein synthesis in health and disease.
PXD053353	39015575	Pseudorabies virus tegument protein US2 antagonizes antiviral innate immunity by targeting cGAS-STING signaling pathway. 	Vec-STING LS-MS and US2 STING LS-MS	STING, US2	Background: The cGAS-STING axis-mediated type I interferon pathway is a crucial strategy for host defense against DNA virus infection. Numerous evasion strategies developed by the pseudorabies virus (PRV) counteract host antiviral immunity. To what extent PRV-encoded proteins evade the cGAS-STING signaling pathway is unknown. Methods: Using US2 stably expressing cell lines and US2-deficient PRV model, we revealed that the PRV tegument protein US2 reduces STING protein stability and downregulates STING-mediated antiviral signaling. Results: To promote K48-linked ubiquitination and STING degradation, US2 interacts with the LBD structural domain of STING and recruits the E3 ligase TRIM21. TRIM21 deficiency consistently strengthens the host antiviral immune response brought on by PRV infection. Additionally, US2-deficient PRV is less harmful in mice. Conclusions: Our study implies that PRV US2 inhibits IFN signaling by a new mechanism that selectively targets STING while successfully evading the host antiviral response. As a result, the present study reveals a novel strategy by which PRV evades host defense and offers explanations for why the Bartha-K61 classical vaccine strain failed to offer effective defense against PRV variant strains in China, indicating that US2 may be a key target for developing gene-deficient PRV vaccines.
PXD048061	39018239	Combining SDS-PAGE to capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry for high-resolution top-down proteomics analysis of intact histone proteoforms. 	Coupling SDS-PAGE to capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry for high-resolution top-down proteomics analysis of intact histone proteoforms	CZE-MS/MS, SDS-PAGE, histone proteoform, post-translational modifications, top-down proteomics	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based top-down proteomics (TDP) analysis of histone proteoforms provides critical information about combinatorial post-translational modifications (PTMs), which is vital for pursuing a better understanding of epigenetic regulation of gene expression. It requires high-resolution separations of histone proteoforms before MS and tandem MS (MS/MS) analysis. In this work, for the first time, we combined SDS-PAGE-based protein fractionation (passively eluting proteins from polyacrylamide gels as intact species for mass spectrometry, PEPPI-MS) with capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE)-MS/MS for high-resolution characterization of histone proteoforms. We systematically studied the histone proteoform extraction from SDS-PAGE gel and follow-up cleanup as well as CZE-MS/MS, to determine an optimal procedure. The optimal procedure showed reproducible and high-resolution separation and characterization of histone proteoforms. SDS-PAGE separated histone proteins (H1, H2, H3, and H4) based on their molecular weight and CZE provided additional separations of proteoforms of each histone protein based on their electrophoretic mobility, which was affected by PTMs, for example, acetylation and phosphorylation. Using the technique, we identified over 200 histone proteoforms from a commercial calf thymus histone sample with good reproducibility. The orthogonal and high-resolution separations of SDS-PAGE and CZE made our technique attractive for the delineation of histone proteoforms extracted from complex biological systems.
PXD046039	39018246	Proteomic analysis reveals a PLK1-dependent G2/M degradation program and a role for AKAP2 in coordinating the mitotic cytoskeleton. 	Proteomic Analysis of a PLK1-Dependent, Cell Cycle Degradation Program	PLK1, cell cycle, degradation, ubiquitin	Ubiquitination is an essential regulator of cell division. The kinase Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) promotes protein degradation at G2/M phase through the E3 ubiquitin ligase Skp1-Cul1-F box (SCF)(betaTrCP). However, the magnitude to which PLK1 shapes the mitotic proteome is uncharacterized. Combining quantitative proteomics with pharmacologic PLK1 inhibition revealed a widespread, PLK1-dependent program of protein breakdown at G2/M. We validated many PLK1-regulated proteins, including substrates of the cell-cycle E3 SCF(Cyclin F), demonstrating that PLK1 promotes proteolysis through at least two distinct E3 ligases. We show that the protein-kinase-A-anchoring protein A-kinase anchor protein 2 (AKAP2) is cell-cycle regulated and that its mitotic degradation is dependent on the PLK1/betaTrCP signaling axis. Expression of a non-degradable AKAP2 mutant resulted in actin defects and aberrant mitotic spindles, suggesting that AKAP2 degradation coordinates cytoskeletal organization during mitosis. These findings uncover PLK1's far-reaching role in shaping the mitotic proteome post-translationally and have potential implications in malignancies where PLK1 is upregulated.
PXD046828	39018382	Extracellular Matrix Protein Signatures of the Outer and Inner Zones of the Rat Adrenal Cortex. 	The extracellular matrix protein signatures of the outer and inner zone of the rat adrenal cortex	Extracellular matrix, adrenal cortex, adrenal gland, rat	This study analyzes the extracellular matrix (ECM) signatures of the outer (OF = capsule + subcapsular + zona glomerulosa cells) and inner fractions (IF = zona fasciculata cells) of the rat adrenal cortex, which comprise two distinct microenvironment niches. Proteomic profiles of decellularized OF and IF samples, male and female rats, identified 252 proteins, with 32 classified as ECM-component and ECM-related. Among these, 25 proteins were differentially regulated: 17 more abundant in OF, including Col1a1, Col1a2, Col6a1, Col6a2, Col6a3, Col12a1, Col14a1, Lama5, Lamb2, Lamc1, Eln, Emilin, Fbln5, Fbn1, Fbn2, Nid1, and Ltbp4, and eight more abundant in IF, including Col4a1, Col4a2, Lama2, Lama4, Lamb1, Fn1, Hspg2, and Ecm1. Eln, Tnc, and Nid2 were abundant in the female OF, while Lama2, Lama5, Lamb2, and Lamc1 were more abundant in the male IF. The complex protein signature of the OF suggests areas of tissue stress, stiffness, and regulatory proteins for growth factor signaling. The higher concentrations of Col4a1 and Col4a2 and their role in steroidogenesis should be further investigated in IF. These findings could significantly enhance our understanding of adrenal cortex functionality and its implications for human health and disease. Key findings were validated, and data are available in ProteomeXchange (PXD046828).
PXD050546	39018792	Integrated analysis of omics reveals the role of scapular fat in thermogenesis adaptation in sunite sheep. 	Quantitative proteomics of sheep scapular fat	Sheep, proteome sequencing, scapular fat	Inhabiting some of the world's most inhospitable climatic regions, the Sunite Mongolian sheep generates average temperatures as low as 4.3 degreesC and a minimum temperature of -38.8 degreesC; in these environments, they make essential cold adaptations. In this regard, scapular fat tissues from Mongolian sheep were collected both in winter and summer for transcriptomic and proteomic analyses to identify genes related to adaptive thermogenesis. In the transcriptome analysis, 588 differentially expressed genes were identified to participate in smooth muscle activity and fat metabolism, as well as in nutrient regulation. There were 343 upregulated and 245 downregulated genes. GO and KEGG pathway analyses on these genes revealed their participation in regulating smooth muscle activity, metabolism of fats, and nutrients. Proteomic analysis showed the differential expression of 925 proteins: among them, there are 432 up- and 493 down-expressed proteins. These proteins are mainly involved in oxidative phosphorylation, respiratory chain complex assembly, and ATP production by electron transport. Furthermore, using both sets at a more detailed level of analysis revealed over-representation in gene ontology categories related to hormone signaling, metabolism of lipids, the pentose phosphate pathway, the TCA cycle, and especially the process of oxidative phosphorylation. The identified essential genes and proteins were further validated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting, respectively; key metabolic network constriction was constructed. The present study emphasized the critical role of lipid turnover in scapular fat for thermogenic adaptation in Sunite sheep.
PXD047897	39019006	Dysregulation of FLVCR1a-dependent mitochondrial calcium handling in neural progenitors causes congenital hydrocephalus. 	Dysregulation of FLVCR1-dependent mitochondrial calcium handling in neural stem cells causes congenital hydrocephalus.	FLVCR1, calcium handling	Congenital hydrocephalus (CH), occurring in approximately 1/1,000 live births, represents an important clinical challenge due to the limited knowledge of underlying molecular mechanisms. The discovery of novel CH genes is thus essential to shed light on the intricate processes responsible for ventricular dilatation in CH. Here, we identify FLVCR1 (feline leukemia virus subgroup C receptor 1) as a gene responsible for a severe form of CH in humans and mice. Mechanistically, our data reveal that the full-length isoform encoded by the FLVCR1 gene, FLVCR1a, interacts with the IP3R3-VDAC complex located on mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs) that controls mitochondrial calcium handling. Loss of Flvcr1a in mouse neural progenitor cells (NPCs) affects mitochondrial calcium levels and energy metabolism, leading to defective cortical neurogenesis and brain ventricle enlargement. These data point to defective NPCs calcium handling and metabolic activity as one of the pathogenetic mechanisms driving CH.
PXD053221	39019009	Neddylation inhibition prevents acetaminophen-induced liver damage by enhancing the anabolic cardiolipin pathway. 	Neddylation inhibition halts acetaminophen induced liver injury boosting anabolic cardiolipin pathway	AILI, APAP, NAE1, NEDD8	Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a significant cause of acute liver failure (ALF) and liver transplantation in the Western world. Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is a main contributor of DILI, leading to hepatocyte cell death through necrosis. Here, we identified that neddylation, an essential post-translational modification involved in the mitochondria function, was upregulated in liver biopsies from patients with APAP-induced liver injury (AILI) and in mice treated with an APAP overdose. MLN4924, an inhibitor of the neuronal precursor cell-expressed developmentally downregulated protein 8 (NEDD8)-activating enzyme (NAE-1), ameliorated necrosis and boosted liver regeneration in AILI. To understand how neddylation interferes in AILI, whole-body biotinylated NEDD8 ((bio)NEDD8) and ubiquitin ((bio)UB) transgenic mice were investigated under APAP overdose with and without MLN4924. The cytidine diphosphate diacylglycerol (CDP-DAG) synthase TAM41, responsible for producing cardiolipin essential for mitochondrial activity, was found modulated under AILI and restored its levels by inhibiting neddylation. Understanding this ubiquitin-like crosstalk in AILI is essential for developing promising targeted inhibitors for DILI treatment.
PXD048173	39019259	MIB2 functions in oocyte meiosis by modulating chromatin configuration. 	quantitative proteomic analysis of mouse oocyte of different chromatin configurations	Chromatin configuration, Oocyte, TMT	Chromatin configuration serves as a principal indicator of GV (germinal vesicle)-stage oocyte quality. However, the underlying mechanisms governing the chromatin configuration transition from NSN (non-surrounded nucleolus) to SN (surrounded nucleolus) remain unclear. In this study, by conducting a quantitative proteomic analysis, we identified an increased expression of the MIB2 (MIB E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 2) protein in SN oocytes. Specific depletion of MIB2 in SN oocytes not only leads to severe disruption of the meiotic apparatus and a higher incidence of aneuploidy, but also adversely affects meiotic maturation and early embryo development. Notably, overexpression of MIB2 in NSN oocytes facilitates the chromatin configuration transition. Meantime, we observed that forced expression of MIB2 in NSN oocytes significantly mitigates spindle/chromosome disorganization and aneuploidy. In summary, our results suggest that chromatin configuration transition regulated by MIB2 is crucial for oocyte to acquire the developmental competence.
PXD047426	39019879	Host-derived protein profiles of human neonatal meconium across gestational ages. 	Deep proteome analysis of initial meconium from human neonates	biomarker, first meconium, neonatal diseases, proteome analysis	Meconium, a non-invasive biomaterial reflecting prenatal substance accumulation, could provide valuable insights into neonatal health. However, the comprehensive protein profile of meconium across gestational ages remains unclear. Here, we conducted an extensive proteomic analysis of first meconium from 259 newborns across varied gestational ages to delineate protein composition and elucidate its relevance to neonatal diseases. The first meconium samples were collected, with the majority obtained before feeding, and the mean time for the first meconium passage from the anus was 11.9 +/- 9.47 h. Our analysis revealed 5370 host-derived meconium proteins, which varied depending on sex and gestational age. Specifically, meconium from preterm infants exhibited elevated concentrations of proteins associated with the extracellular matrix. Additionally, the protein profiles of meconium also exhibited unique variations depending on both specific diseases, including gastrointestinal diseases, congenital heart diseases, and maternal conditions. Furthermore, we developed a machine learning model to predict gestational ages using meconium proteins. Our model suggests that newborns with gastrointestinal diseases and congenital heart diseases may have immature gastrointestinal systems. These findings highlight the intricate relationship between clinical parameters and meconium protein composition, offering potential for a novel approach to assess neonatal gastrointestinal health.
PXD053342	39019927	A synthetic antibiotic class with a deeply-optimized design for overcoming bacterial resistance. 	A synthetic antibiotic class with a deeply-optimized design for overcoming bacterial resistance	antibiotic resistance, arcB, bacteria, drug, structure-based drug design, target.	The lack of new drugs that are effective against antibiotic-resistant bacteria has caused increasing concern in global public health. Based on this study, we report development of a modified antimicrobial drug through structure-based drug design (SBDD) and modular synthesis. The optimal modified compound, F8, was identified, which demonstrated in vitro and in vivo broad-spectrum antibacterial activity against drug-resistant bacteria and effectively mitigated the development of resistance. F8 exhibits significant bactericidal activity against bacteria resistant to antibiotics such as methicillin, polymyxin B, florfenicol (FLO), doxycycline, ampicillin and sulfamethoxazole. In a mouse model of drug-resistant bacteremia, F8 was found to increase survival and significantly reduce bacterial load in infected mice. Multi-omics analysis (transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics) have indicated that ornithine carbamoyl transferase (arcB) is a antimicrobial target of F8. Further molecular docking, Isothermal Titration Calorimetry (ITC), and Differential Scanning Fluorimetry (DSF) studies verified arcB as a effective target for F8. Finally, mechanistic studies suggest that F8 competitively binds to arcB, disrupting the bacterial cell membrane and inducing a certain degree of oxidative damage. Here, we report F8 as a promising candidate drug for the development of antibiotic formulations to combat antibiotic-resistant bacteria-associated infections.
PXD044622	39020165	Bacteria conjugate ubiquitin-like proteins to interfere with phage assembly. 	Bacteria conjugate ubiquitin-like proteins to interfere with phage assembly	ISG15, bacteria, defense, immunology, phage	Several immune pathways in humans conjugate ubiquitin-like proteins to virus and host molecules as a means of antiviral defence(1-5). Here we studied an antiphage defence system in bacteria, comprising a ubiquitin-like protein, ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes E1 and E2, and a deubiquitinase. We show that during phage infection, this system specifically conjugates the ubiquitin-like protein to the phage central tail fibre, a protein at the tip of the tail that is essential for tail assembly as well as for recognition of the target host receptor. Following infection, cells encoding this defence system release a mixture of partially assembled, tailless phage particles and fully assembled phages in which the central tail fibre is obstructed by the covalently attached ubiquitin-like protein. These phages show severely impaired infectivity, explaining how the defence system protects the bacterial population from the spread of phage infection. Our findings demonstrate that conjugation of ubiquitin-like proteins is an antiviral strategy conserved across the tree of life.
PXD052590	39020361	Involvement of the choroid plexus in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology: findings from mouse and human proteomic studies. 	Characterization of the choroid plexus role in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology	APP knock-in mice, Alzheimer's disease, Amyloid-beta (Abeta)., Cerebrospinal fluid, Choroid plexus	BACKGROUND: Structural and functional changes of the choroid plexus (ChP) have been reported in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Nonetheless, the role of the ChP in the pathogenesis of AD remains largely unknown. We aim to unravel the relation between ChP functioning and core AD pathogenesis using a unique proteomic approach in mice and humans. METHODS: We used an APP knock-in mouse model, APP(NL-G-F), exhibiting amyloid pathology, to study the association between AD brain pathology and protein changes in mouse ChP tissue and CSF using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Mouse proteomes were investigated at the age of 7 weeks (n = 5) and 40 weeks (n = 5). Results were compared with previously published human AD CSF proteomic data (n = 496) to identify key proteins and pathways associated with ChP changes in AD. RESULTS: ChP tissue proteome was dysregulated in APP(NL-G-F) mice relative to wild-type mice at both 7 and 40 weeks. At both ages, ChP tissue proteomic changes were associated with epithelial cells, mitochondria, protein modification, extracellular matrix and lipids. Nonetheless, some ChP tissue proteomic changes were different across the disease trajectory; pathways related to lysosomal function, endocytosis, protein formation, actin and complement were uniquely dysregulated at 7 weeks, while pathways associated with nervous system, immune system, protein degradation and vascular system were uniquely dysregulated at 40 weeks. CSF proteomics in both mice and humans showed similar ChP-related dysregulated pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Together, our findings support the hypothesis of ChP dysfunction in AD. These ChP changes were related to amyloid pathology. Therefore, the ChP could become a novel promising therapeutic target for AD.
PXD046525	39021083	Tumor necrosis factor alpha deficiency promotes myogenesis and muscle regeneration. 	TNFalpha conditional knockout promotes myoblasts proliferation, differentiation and muscle regeneration	Nucleus-cytoplasmic protein separation, TNFalpha, muscle-specific knockout, myogenesis	Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) exhibits diverse biological functions; however, its regulatory roles in myogenesis are not fully understood. In the present study, we explored the function of TNFalpha in myoblast proliferation, differentiation, migration, and myotube fusion in primary myoblasts and C2C12 cells. To this end, we constructed TNFalpha muscle-conditional knockout ( TNFalpha-CKO) mice and compared them with flox mice to assess the effects of TNFalpha knockout on skeletal muscles. Results indicated that TNFalpha-CKO mice displayed phenotypes such as accelerated muscle development, enhanced regenerative capacity, and improved exercise endurance compared to flox mice, with no significant differences observed in major visceral organs or skeletal structure. Using label-free proteomic analysis, we found that TNFalpha-CKO altered the distribution of several muscle development-related proteins, such as Hira, Casz1, Casp7, Arhgap10, Gas1, Diaph1, Map3k20, Cfl2, and Igf2, in the nucleus and cytoplasm. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) further revealed that TNFalpha deficiency resulted in positive enrichment in oxidative phosphorylation and MyoD targets and negative enrichment in JAK-STAT signaling. These findings suggest that TNFalpha-CKO positively regulates muscle growth and development, possibly via these newly identified targets and pathways.
PXD051497	39021582	Differential prolyl hydroxylation by six Physcomitrella prolyl-4 hydroxylases. 	Differential prolyl hydroxylation by six Physcomitrella prolyl-4 hydroxylases	O-glycosylation, biopharmaceutical, erythropoietin, plant-made pharmaceutical, posttranslational protein modification, prolyl-hydroxylation	Hydroxylation of prolines to 4-trans-hydroxyproline (Hyp) is mediated by prolyl-4 hydroxylases (P4Hs). In plants, Hyps occur in Hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins (HRGPs), and are frequently O-glycosylated. While both modifications are important, e.g. for cell wall stability, they are undesired in plant-made pharmaceuticals. Sequence motifs for prolyl-hydroxylation were proposed but did not include data from mosses, such as Physcomitrella. We identified six moss P4Hs by phylogenetic reconstruction. Our analysis of 73 Hyps in 24 secretory proteins from multiple mass spectrometry datasets revealed that prolines near other prolines, alanine, serine, threonine and valine were preferentially hydroxylated. About 95 % of Hyps were predictable with combined established methods. In our data, AOV was the most frequent pattern. A combination of 443 AlphaFold models and MS data with 3000 prolines found Hyps mainly on protein surfaces in disordered regions. Moss-produced human erythropoietin (EPO) exhibited O-glycosylation with arabinose chains on two Hyps. This modification was significantly reduced in a p4h1 knock-out (KO) Physcomitrella mutant. Quantitative proteomics with different p4h mutants revealed specific changes in protein amounts, and a modified prolyl-hydroxylation pattern, suggesting a differential function of the Physcomitrella P4Hs. Quantitative RT-PCR revealed a differential effect of single p4h KOs on the expression of the other five p4h genes, suggesting a partial compensation of the mutation. AlphaFold-Multimer models for Physcomitrella P4H1 and its target EPO peptide superposed with the crystal structure of Chlamydomonas P4H1 suggested significant amino acids in the active centre of the enzyme and revealed differences between P4H1 and the other Physcomitrella P4Hs.
PXD052743	39021800	Osteopontin regulation of MerTK(+) macrophages promotes Crohn's disease intestinal fibrosis. 	Osteopontin Regulation of MerTK+ Macrophages Promotes Crohn's Disease Intestinal Fibrosis	Crohns disease, Intestine, Macrophage, MerTK	The pathogenesis of intestinal fibrosis in Crohn's disease (CD) remains unclear. Mer receptor tyrosine kinase (MerTK) is an immunosuppressive protein specifically expressed in macrophages. Osteopontin (OPN), also known as secreted phosphoprotein 1, contributes to inflammation and wound repair. This study investigates the potential profibrotic pathway in MerTK(+) macrophages in order to provide a possible therapeutic target for intestinal fibrosis. MerTK expression in the inflamed and stenotic bowels was evaluated. The MerTK/ERK/TGF-beta1 pathway was overactivated in the fibrotic intestinal tissues of patients with CD. This pathway was induced by epithelial cell apoptosis, resulting in activated fibroblasts with increased TGF-beta1 secretion. OPN upregulated TGF production by altering ERK1/2 phosphorylation, as evidenced by OPN or MerTK knockdown and OPN overexpression in vitro. MerTK inhibitor UNC2025 alleviated intestinal fibrosis in mouse colitis models, suggesting a potential therapeutic target for intestinal fibrosis in patients with CD.
PXD052126	39021805	RHOF activation of AKT/beta-catenin signaling pathway drives acute myeloid leukemia progression and chemotherapy resistance. 	RHOF Activation of AKT/beta-Catenin Signaling Pathway Drives Acute Myeloid Leukemia Progression and Chemotherapy Resistance	AML, RHOF, XPO1	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a clonal malignancy originating from leukemia stem cells, characterized by a poor prognosis, underscoring the necessity for novel therapeutic targets and treatment methodologies. This study focuses on Ras homolog family member F, filopodia associated (RHOF), a Rho guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) family member. We found that RHOF is overexpressed in AML, correlating with an adverse prognosis. Our gain- and loss-of-function experiments revealed that RHOF overexpression enhances proliferation and impedes apoptosis in AML cells in vitro. Conversely, genetic suppression of RHOF markedly reduced the leukemia burden in a human AML xenograft mouse model. Furthermore, we investigated the synergistic effect of RHOF downregulation and chemotherapy, demonstrating significant therapeutic efficacy in vivo. Mechanistically, RHOF activates the AKT/beta-catenin signaling pathway, thereby accelerating the progression of AML. Our findings elucidate the pivotal role of RHOF in AML pathogenesis and propose RHOF inhibition as a promising therapeutic approach for AML management.
PXD043515	39021806	Msc1 is a nuclear envelope protein that reinforces DNA repair in late mitosis. 	Msc1 is a novel nuclear envelope protein that reinforces the DNA damage response in late mitosis		Precise double-strand break (DSB) repair is a paramount for genome stability. Homologous recombination (HR) repairs DSBs when cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) activity is high, which correlates with the availability of the sister chromatid as a template. However, anaphase and telophase are paradoxical scenarios since high CDK favors HR despite sister chromatids being no longer aligned. To identify factors specifically involved in DSB repair in late mitosis, we have undertaken comparative proteomics in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and found that meiotic sister chromatid 1 (Msc1), a poorly characterized nuclear envelope protein, is significantly enriched upon both random and guided DSBs. We further show that Deltamsc1 is more sensitive to DSBs in late mitosis, and has a delayed repair of DBSs, as indicated by increased Rad53 hyperphosphorylation, a higher presence of RPA foci, fewer Rad52 repair factories, and slower HR completion. We propose that Msc1 favors the later stages of HR and the timely completion of DSB repair before cytokinesis.
PXD033979	39022627	Changes in neuroinflammatory biomarkers correlate with disease severity and neuroimaging alterations in patients with COVID-19 neurological complications. 	COVID-19 PATIENTS WITH NEUROLOGICAL SYMPTOMS PRESENT BROAD CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM MOLECULAR AND STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH SYSTEMIC INFLAMMATION AND DISEASE SEVERITY	COVID-19, CSF, Cerebrospinal fluid, Covid-19, Inflammation, Prorteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2	COVID-19 induces acute and persistent neurological symptoms in mild and severe cases. Proposed concomitant mechanisms include direct viral infection and strain, coagulopathy, hypoxia, and neuroinflammation. However, underlying molecular alterations associated with multiple neurological outcomes in both mild and severe cases are majorly unexplored. To illuminate possible mechanisms leading to COVID-19 neurological disease, we retrospectively investigated in detail a cohort of 35 COVID-19 mild and severe hospitalized patients presenting neurological alterations subject to clinically indicated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sampling. Clinical and neurological investigation, brain imaging, viral sequencing, and cerebrospinal CSF analyses were carried out. We found that COVID-19 patients presented heterogeneous neurological symptoms dissociated from lung burden. Nasal swab viral sequencing revealed a dominant strain at the time of the study, and we could not detect traces of SARS-CoV-2's spike protein in patients' CSF by multiple reaction monitoring analysis. Patients presented ubiquitous systemic hyper-inflammation and broad alterations in CSF proteomics related to inflammation, innate immunity, and hemostasis, irrespective of COVID-19 severity or neuroimaging alterations. Elevated CSF interleukin-6 (IL6) correlated with disease severity (sex-, age-, and comorbidity-adjusted mean Severe 24.5 pg/ml, 95% confidence interval (CI) 9.62-62.23 vs. Mild 3.91 pg/mL CI 1.5-10.3 patients, p = 0.019). CSF tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) and IL6 levels were higher in patients presenting pronounced neuroimaging alterations compared to those who did not (sex-, age-, and comorbidity-adjusted mean TNFalpha Pronounced 3.4, CI 2.4-4.4 vs. Non-Pronounced 2.0, CI 1.4-2.5, p = 0.022; IL6 Pronounced 33.11, CI 8.89-123.31 vs Non-Pronounced 6.22, CI 2.9-13.34, p = 0.046). Collectively, our findings put neuroinflammation as a possible driver of COVID-19 acute neurological disease in mild and severe cases.
PXD046574	39022743	Temporal insights into molecular and cellular responses during rAAV production in HEK293T cells. 	Temporal Insights into Molecular and cellular responses during rAAV production in HEK293T cells	HEK293T, SPECTRAL LIBRARY, SWATH-MS	The gene therapy field seeks cost-effective, large-scale production of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors for high-dosage therapeutic applications. Although strategies like suspension cell culture and transfection optimization have shown moderate success, challenges persist for large-scale applications. To unravel molecular and cellular mechanisms influencing rAAV production, we conducted an SWATH-MS proteomic analysis of HEK293T cells transfected using standard, sub-optimal, and optimal conditions. Gene Ontology and pathway analysis revealed significant protein expression variations, particularly in processes related to cellular homeostasis, metabolic regulation, vesicular transport, ribosomal biogenesis, and cellular proliferation under optimal transfection conditions. This resulted in a 50% increase in rAAV titer compared with the standard protocol. Additionally, we identified modifications in host cell proteins crucial for AAV mRNA stability and gene translation, particularly regarding AAV capsid transcripts under optimal transfection conditions. Our study identified 124 host proteins associated with AAV replication and assembly, each exhibiting distinct expression pattern throughout rAAV production stages in optimal transfection condition. This investigation sheds light on the cellular mechanisms involved in rAAV production in HEK293T cells and proposes promising avenues for further enhancing rAAV titer during production.
PXD051348	39024454	Multiscale photocatalytic proximity labeling reveals cell surface neighbors on and between cells. 	Multi-scale photocatalytic proximity labeling reveals cell surface neighbors on and between cells	Bispecific T cell Engager, Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cells, Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, Photocatalysis, Proximity labeling	Proximity labeling proteomics (PLP) strategies are powerful approaches to yield snapshots of protein neighborhoods. Here, we describe a multiscale PLP method with adjustable resolution that uses a commercially available photocatalyst, Eosin Y, which upon visible light illumination activates different photo-probes with a range of labeling radii. We applied this platform to profile neighborhoods of the oncogenic epidermal growth factor receptor and orthogonally validated more than 20 neighbors using immunoassays and AlphaFold-Multimer prediction. We further profiled the protein neighborhoods of cell-cell synapses induced by bispecific T cell engagers and chimeric antigen receptor T cells. This integrated multiscale PLP platform maps local and distal protein networks on and between cell surfaces, which will aid in the systematic construction of the cell surface interactome, revealing horizontal signaling partners and reveal new immunotherapeutic opportunities.
PXD049208	39025226	Fibrotic extracellular matrix impacts cardiomyocyte phenotype and function in an iPSC-derived isogenic model of cardiac fibrosis. 	An iPSC-derived bio-inspired scaffold modelling the structure and the effects of extracellular matrix in cardiac fibrosis	Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), cardiac fibrosis, decellularized extracellular matrix (dECM), disease modelling, iPSC-derived-cardiac fibroblasts (iPSC-cFbs)	Cardiac fibrosis occurs following insults to the myocardium and is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of non-compliant extracellular matrix (ECM), which compromises cardiomyocyte contractile activity and eventually leads to heart failure. This phenomenon is driven by the activation of cardiac fibroblasts (cFbs) to myofibroblasts and results in changes in ECM biochemical, structural and mechanical properties. The lack of predictive in vitro models of heart fibrosis has so far hampered the search for innovative treatments, as most of the cellular-based in vitro reductionist models do not take into account the leading role of ECM cues in driving the progression of the pathology. Here, we devised a single-step decellularization protocol to obtain and thoroughly characterize the biochemical and micro-mechanical properties of the ECM secreted by activated cFbs differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). We activated iPSC-derived cFbs to the myofibroblast phenotype by tuning basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1) signalling and confirmed that activated cells acquired key features of myofibroblast phenotype, like SMAD2/3 nuclear shuttling, the formation of aligned alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA)-rich stress fibres and increased focal adhesions (FAs) assembly. Next, we used Mass Spectrometry, nanoindentation, scanning electron and confocal microscopy to unveil the characteristic composition and the visco-elastic properties of the abundant, collagen-rich ECM deposited by cardiac myofibroblasts in vitro. Finally, we demonstrated that the fibrotic ECM activates mechanosensitive pathways in iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes, impacting on their shape, sarcomere assembly, phenotype, and calcium handling properties. We thus propose human bio-inspired decellularized matrices as animal-free, isogenic cardiomyocyte culture substrates recapitulating key pathophysiological changes occurring at the cellular level during cardiac fibrosis.
PXD044420	39025453	Ccr4-Not ubiquitin ligase signaling regulates ribosomal protein homeostasis and inhibits 40S ribosomal autophagy. 	Ccr4-Not ubiquitin ligase signaling regulates ribosomal protein homeostasis and inhibits 40S ribosomal autophagy	CCR4-Not, Not4, autophagy, endolysomal, ribosome	The Ccr4-Not complex contains the poorly understood Not4 ubiquitin ligase that functions in transcription, mRNA decay, translation, proteostasis, and endolysosomal nutrient signaling. To gain further insight into the in vivo functions of the ligase, we performed quantitative proteomics in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using yeast cells lacking Not4, or cells overexpressing wild-type Not4 or an inactive Not4 mutant. Herein, we provide evidence that balanced Not4 activity maintains ribosomal protein (RP) homeostasis independent of changes to RP mRNA or known Not4 ribosomal substrates. Intriguingly, we also find that Not4 loss activates 40S ribosomal autophagy independently of canonical Atg7-dependent macroautophagy, indicating that microautophagy is responsible. We previously demonstrated that Ccr4-Not stimulates target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1) signaling, which activates RP expression and inhibits autophagy, by maintaining vacuole V-ATPase H(+) pump activity. Importantly, combining Not4 deficient cells with a mutant that blocks vacuole H(+) export fully restores RP expression and increases 40S RP autophagy efficiency. In contrast, restoring TORC1 activity alone fails to rescue either process, indicating that Not4 loss disrupts additional endolysosomal functions that regulate RP expression and 40S autophagy. Analysis of the Not4 regulated proteome reveals increases in endolysosomal and autophagy-related factors that functionally interact with Not4 to control RP expression and affect 40S autophagy. Collectively, our data indicate that balanced Ccr4-Not ubiquitin ligase signaling maintains RP homeostasis and inhibits 40S autophagy via the ligase's emerging role as an endolysosomal regulator.
PXD052854	39025915	Normoglycemia and physiological cortisone level maintain glucose homeostasis in a pancreas-liver microphysiological system. 	Normoglycemia and physiological cortisone level maintain glucose homeostasis in a pancreas-liver microphysiological system	Diabetes, Glucocorticoids, Human pancreatic islets, Hyperglycemia, Liver, Metabolic disorders, Microphysiological system, Pancreas, Transcriptomics, Type 2 diabetes mellitus	Current research on metabolic disorders and diabetes relies on animal models because multi-organ diseases cannot be well studied with standard in vitro assays. Here, we have connected cell models of key metabolic organs, the pancreas and liver, on a microfluidic chip to enable diabetes research in a human-based in vitro system. Aided by mechanistic mathematical modeling, we demonstrate that hyperglycemia and high cortisone concentration induce glucose dysregulation in the pancreas-liver microphysiological system (MPS), mimicking a diabetic phenotype seen in patients with glucocorticoid-induced diabetes. In this diseased condition, the pancreas-liver MPS displays beta-cell dysfunction, steatosis, elevated ketone-body secretion, increased glycogen storage, and upregulated gluconeogenic gene expression. Conversely, a physiological culture condition maintains glucose tolerance and beta-cell function. This method was reproducible in two laboratories and was effective in multiple pancreatic islet donors. The model also provides a platform to identify new therapeutic proteins, as demonstrated with a combined transcriptome and proteome analysis.
PXD048308	39026042	Selection Across the Three-Dimensional Structure of Venom Proteins from North American Scolopendromorph Centipedes. 	Scolopendromorpha venom Mass Spectrometry	Centipede, Scolopendra, Scolopocryptops, Venom	Gene duplication followed by nucleotide differentiation is one of the simplest mechanisms to develop new functions for genes. However, the evolutionary processes underlying the divergence of multigene families remain controversial. We used multigene families found within the diversity of toxic proteins in centipede venom to test two hypotheses related to venom evolution: the two-speed mode of venom evolution and the rapid accumulation of variation in exposed residues (RAVER) model. The two-speed mode of venom evolution proposes that different types of selection impact ancient and younger venomous lineages with negative selection being the predominant form in ancient lineages and positive selection being the dominant form in younger lineages. The RAVER hypothesis proposes that, instead of different types of selection acting on different ages of venomous lineages, the different types of selection will selectively contribute to amino acid variation based on whether the residue is exposed to the solvent where it can potentially interact directly with toxin targets. This hypothesis parallels the longstanding understanding of protein evolution that suggests that residues found within the structural or active regions of the protein will be under negative or purifying selection, and residues that do not form part of these areas will be more prone to positive selection. To test these two hypotheses, we compared the venom of 26 centipedes from the order Scolopendromorpha from six currently recognized species from across North America using both transcriptomics and proteomics. We first estimated their phylogenetic relationships and uncovered paraphyly among the genus Scolopendra and evidence for cryptic diversity among currently recognized species. Using our phylogeny, we then characterized the diverse venom components from across the identified clades using a combination of transcriptomics and proteomics. We conducted selection-based analyses in the context of predicted three-dimensional properties of the venom proteins and found support for both hypotheses. Consistent with the two-speed hypothesis, we found a prevalence of negative selection across all proteins. Consistent with the RAVER hypothesis, we found evidence of positive selection on solvent-exposed residues, with structural and less-exposed residues showing stronger signal for negative selection. Through the use of phylogenetics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and selection-based analyses, we were able to describe the evolution of venom from an ancient venomous lineage and support principles of protein evolution that directly relate to multigene family evolution.
PXD050545	39026321	In-depth phosphoproteomic profiling of the insulin signaling response in heart tissue and cardiomyocytes unveils canonical and specialized regulation. 	In-depth phosphoproteomic profiling of the insulin signaling response in heart tissue and cardiomyocytes unveils canonical and spezialized regulation	Heart, Insulin, Phosphoproteomics, Tbc1d4	BACKGROUND: Insulin signaling regulates cardiac substrate utilization and is implicated in physiological adaptations of the heart. Alterations in the signaling response within the heart are believed to contribute to pathological conditions such as type-2 diabetes and heart failure. While extensively investigated in several metabolic organs using phosphoproteomic strategies, the signaling response elicited in cardiac tissue in general, and specifically in the specialized cardiomyocytes, has not yet been investigated to the same extent. METHODS: Insulin or vehicle was administered to male C57BL6/JRj mice via intravenous injection into the vena cava. Ventricular tissue was extracted and subjected to quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis to evaluate the insulin signaling response. To delineate the cardiomyocyte-specific response and investigate the role of Tbc1d4 in insulin signal transduction, cardiomyocytes from the hearts of cardiac and skeletal muscle-specific Tbc1d4 knockout mice, as well as from wildtype littermates, were studied. The phosphoproteomic studies involved isobaric peptide labeling with Tandem Mass Tags (TMT), enrichment for phosphorylated peptides, fractionation via micro-flow reversed-phase liquid chromatography, and high-resolution mass spectrometry measurements. RESULTS: We quantified 10,399 phosphorylated peptides from ventricular tissue and 12,739 from isolated cardiomyocytes, localizing to 3,232 and 3,128 unique proteins, respectively. In cardiac tissue, we identified 84 insulin-regulated phosphorylation events, including sites on the Insulin Receptor (Insr(Y1351, Y1175, Y1179, Y1180)) itself as well as the Insulin receptor substrate protein 1 (Irs1(S522, S526)). Predicted kinases with increased activity in response to insulin stimulation included Rps6kb1, Akt1 and Mtor. Tbc1d4 emerged as a major phosphorylation target in cardiomyocytes. Despite limited impact on the global phosphorylation landscape, Tbc1d4 deficiency in cardiomyocytes attenuated insulin-induced Glut4 translocation and induced protein remodeling. We observed 15 proteins significantly regulated upon knockout of Tbc1d4. While Glut4 exhibited decreased protein abundance consequent to Tbc1d4-deficiency, Txnip levels were notably increased. Stimulation of wildtype cardiomyocytes with insulin led to the regulation of 262 significant phosphorylation events, predicted to be regulated by kinases such as Akt1, Mtor, Akt2, and Insr. In cardiomyocytes, the canonical insulin signaling response is elicited in addition to regulation on specialized cardiomyocyte proteins, such as Kcnj11(Y12) and Dsp(S2597). Details of all phosphorylation sites are provided. CONCLUSION: We present a first global outline of the insulin-induced phosphorylation signaling response in heart tissue and in isolated adult cardiomyocytes, detailing the specific residues with changed phosphorylation abundances. Our study marks an important step towards understanding the role of insulin signaling in cardiac diseases linked to insulin resistance.
PXD050624	39027259	Selectively T cell phosphorylation activation of azvudine in the thymus tissue with immune protection effect. 	rhesus monkey thymus proteomics of FNC	rhesus monkey, thymus	Thymus is the important immune organ, responsible for T cell development and differentiation. The lower circulating T counts have been observed in patients who died from COVID-19 compared with survivors. Azvudine, also known as FNC, is a thymus-homing anti-SARS-CoV-2 drug in treating COVID-19 patients. In this study, single-cell transcriptome, proteomics, and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) were applied to insight into the activation process of FNC in rat and SARS-CoV-2 rhesus monkey thymus. The results indicated that thymic immune cells possess a robust metabolic capacity for cytidine-analogue drugs such as FNC. Key enzymes involved in the FNC phosphorylation process, such as Dck, Cmpk1, and Nme2, were highly expressed in CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, and DP (CD4+ CD8+) cells. Additionally, FNC could upregulate multiple phosphorylated kinases in various cell types while downregulating the phosphatases, phosphoribosyl transferases, and deaminases, respectively. The robust phosphorylation capacity of the thymus for cytidine analogue drug FNC, and the activation effect of FNC on the NAs metabolism system potentially contribute to its enrichment in the thymus and immune protection effect. This suggests that it is crucial to consider the expression level of phosphorylation kinases when evaluating NA drug properties, as an important factor during antiviral drug design.
PXD051695	39027281	A phosphatase-like nanomaterial promotes autophagy and reprograms macrophages for cancer immunotherapy. 	A phosphatase-like nanomaterial promotes autophagy and reprograms macrophage for cancer immunotherapy	RAW264.7, mice, phospho-proteins	Macrophages are plastic and play a key role in the maintenance of tissue homeostasis. In cancer progression, macrophages also take part in all processes, from initiation to progression, to final tumor metastasis. Although energy deprivation and autophagy are widely used for cancer therapy, most of these strategies do not target macrophages, resulting in undesired effects and unsatisfactory outcomes for cancer immunotherapy. Herein, we developed a lanthanum nickel oxide (LNO) nanozyme with phosphatase-like activity for ATP hydrolysis. Meanwhile, the autophagy of macrophages induced by LNO promotes the polarization of macrophages from M2-like macrophages (M2) to M1-like macrophages (M1) and reduces tumor-associated macrophages in tumor-bearing mice, exhibiting the capability of killing tumor-associated macrophages and antitumor effects in vivo. Furthermore, pre-coating the surface of LNO with a myeloid cell membrane significantly enhanced antitumor immunity. Our findings demonstrate that phosphatase-like nanozyme LNO can specifically induce macrophage autophagy, which improves therapeutic efficacy and offers valuable strategies for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD037369	39027605	Ethylene glycol is metabolized to ethanol and acetate and induces expression of bacterial microcompartments in Propionibacterium freudenreichii. 	Ethylene glycol metabolism in Propionibacterium freudenreichii	1, 2-ethanediol, Propionibacterium freudenreichii, bacterial microcompartments, ethylene glycol, pdu cluster	Ethylene glycol (EG, 1,2-ethanediol) is a two-carbon dihydroxy alcohol that can be derived from fermentation of plant-derived xylose and arabinose and which can be formed during food fermentations. Here we show that Propionibacterium freudenreichii DSM 20271 is able to convert EG in anaerobic conditions to ethanol and acetate in almost equimolar amounts. The metabolism of EG led to a moderate increase of biomass, indicating its metabolism is energetically favourable. A proteomic analysis revealed EG induced expression of the pdu-cluster, which encodes a functional bacterial microcompartment (BMC) involved in the degradation of 1,2-propanediol, with the presence of BMCs confirmed using transmission electron microscopy. Cross-examination of the proteomes of 1,2-propanediol and EG grown cells revealed PDU BMC-expressing cells have elevated levels of DNA repair proteins and cysteine biosynthesis proteins. Cells grown in 1,2-propanediol and EG also showed enhanced resistance against acid and bile salt-induced stresses compared to lactate-grown cells. Our analysis of whole genome sequences of selected genomes of BMC-encoding microorganisms able to metabolize EG with acetaldehyde as intermediate indicate a potentially broad-distributed role of the pdu operon in metabolism of EG. Based on our results we conclude EG is metabolized to acetate and ethanol with acetaldehyde as intermediate within BMCs in P. freudenreichii.
PXD044330	39028932	Synergistic effects of PARP inhibition and cholesterol biosynthesis pathway modulation. 	Off-target profiling of several PARP inhibitors using immobilized Niraparib beads	Niraparib, Olaparib, PARP, Talazoparib	An in-depth multi-omic molecular characterisation of poly(adenosine 5'-diphosphate [ADP]-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors revealed a distinct poly-pharmacology of niraparib (Zejula(R)) mediated by its interaction with lanosterol synthase (LSS), which is not observed with other PARP inhibitors. Niraparib, in a similar way to the LSS inhibitor Ro-48-8071, induced activation of the 24,25-epoxysterol shunt pathway, which is a regulatory signalling branch of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. Interestingly, the combination of a LSS inhibitor with a PARP inhibitor that does not bind to LSS, such as olaparib, had an additive effect on killing of cancer cells to levels comparable to Niraparib as single agent. In addition, the combination of PARP inhibitors and statins, inhibitors of HMGCR, an enzyme catalysing the rate-limiting step in the mevalonate pathway, had a synergistic effect on tumor cell killing in cell lines and patient-derived ovarian tumor organoids. These observations suggest that concomitant inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis pathway and PARP activity might result in stronger efficacy of these inhibitors against tumor types highly dependent on cholesterol metabolism.
PXD044986	39030393	Diversity of post-translational modifications and cell signaling revealed by single cell and single organelle mass spectrometry. 	Diversity of post-translational modifications and signaling networks revealed by single cell and organelle mass spectrometry	LC-MS, Single cell, diaPASEF	The rapid evolution of mass spectrometry-based single-cell proteomics now enables the cataloging of several thousand proteins from single cells. We investigated whether we could discover cellular heterogeneity beyond proteome, encompassing post-translational modifications (PTM), protein-protein interaction, and variants. By optimizing the mass spectrometry data interpretation strategy to enable the detection of PTMs and variants, we have generated a high-definition dataset of single-cell and nuclear proteomic-states. The data demonstrate the heterogeneity of cell-states and signaling dependencies at the single-cell level and reveal epigenetic drug-induced changes in single nuclei. This approach enables the exploration of previously uncharted single-cell and organellar proteomes revealing molecular characteristics that are inaccessible through RNA profiling.
PXD044324	39032489	Assembly mechanism of Integrator's RNA cleavage module. 	TAP-MS of human BRAT1 and WDR73		The modular Integrator complex is a transcription regulator that is essential for embryonic development. It attenuates coding gene expression via premature transcription termination and performs 3'-processing of non-coding RNAs. For both activities, Integrator requires endonuclease activity that is harbored by an RNA cleavage module consisting of INTS4-9-11. How correct assembly of Integrator modules is achieved remains unknown. Here, we show that BRAT1 and WDR73 are critical biogenesis factors for the human cleavage module. They maintain INTS9-11 inactive during maturation by physically blocking the endonuclease active site and prevent premature INTS4 association. Furthermore, BRAT1 facilitates import of INTS9-11 into the nucleus, where it is joined by INTS4. Final BRAT1 release requires locking of the mature cleavage module conformation by inositol hexaphosphate (IP6). Our data explain several neurodevelopmental disorders caused by BRAT1, WDR73, and INTS11 mutations as Integrator assembly defects and reveal that IP6 is an essential co-factor for cleavage module maturation.
PXD051411	39032654	Kinase-catalyzed Biotinylation for Discovery and Validation of Substrates to Multi-specificity Kinases NME1 and NME2. 	Kinase-catalyzed Biotinylation for Discovery and Validation of Substrates to Multi-specificity Kinases NME1 and NME2	ATP-biotin, NME, histidine kinase, phosphorylation, protein kinase, substrate specificity	Protein phosphorylation by kinases regulates mammalian cell functions, such as growth, division, and signal transduction. Among human kinases, NME1 and NME2 are associated with metastatic tumor suppression, but remain understudied due to the lack of tools to monitor their cellular substrates. In particular, NME1 and NME2 are multi-specificity kinases phosphorylating serine, threonine, histidine, and aspartic acid residues of substrate proteins, and the heat and acid sensitivity of phosphohistidine and phosphoaspartate complicates substrate discovery and validation. To provide new substrate monitoring tools, we established the gamma-phosphate modified ATP analog, ATP-biotin, as a cosubstrate for phosphorylbiotinylation of NME1 and NME2 cellular substrates. Building upon this ATP-biotin compatibility, the Kinase-catalyzed Biotinylation with Inactivated Lysates for Discovery of Substrates (K-BILDS) method enabled validation of a known substrate and the discovery of seven NME1 and three NME2 substrates. Given the paucity of methods to study kinase substrates, ATP-biotin and the K-BILDS method are valuable tools to characterize the roles of NME1 and NME2 in human cell biology.
PXD051761	39033117	Epigenetic and transcriptional control of adipocyte function by centenarian-associated SIRT6 N308K/A313S mutant. 	Epigenetic and transcriptional control of adipocyte function by centenarian-associated SIRT6 N308K/A313S mutant	SIRT6, adipogenesis, epigenetics, histones, obesity.	BACKGROUND: Obesity is a major health burden. Preadipocytes proliferate and differentiate in mature adipocytes in the adipogenic process, which could be a potential therapeutic approach for obesity. Deficiency of SIRT6, a stress-responsive protein deacetylase and mono-ADP ribosyltransferase enzyme, blocks adipogenesis. Mutants of SIRT6 (N308K/A313S) were recently linked to the in the long lifespan Ashkenazi Jews. In this study, we aimed to clarify how these new centenarian-associated SIRT6 genetic variants affect adipogenesis at the transcriptional and epigenetic level. METHODS: We analyzed the role of SIRT6 wild-type (WT) or SIRT6 centenarian-associated mutant (N308K/A313S) overexpression in adipogenesis, by creating stably transduced preadipocyte cell lines using lentivirus on the 3T3-L1 model. Histone post-translational modifications (PTM: acetylation, methylation) and transcriptomic changes were analyzed by mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and RNA-Seq, respectively, in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. In addition, the adipogenic process and related signaling pathways were investigated by bioinformatics and biochemical approaches. RESULTS: Overexpression of centenarian-associated SIRT6 mutant increased adipogenic differentiation to a similar extent compared to the WT form. However, it triggered distinct histone PTM profiles in mature adipocytes, with significantly higher acetylation levels, and activated divergent transcriptional programs, including those dependent on signaling related to the sympathetic innervation and to PI3K pathway. 3T3-L1 mature adipocytes overexpressing SIRT6 N308K/A313S displayed increased insulin sensitivity in a neuropeptide Y (NPY)-dependent manner. CONCLUSIONS: SIRT6 N308K/A313S overexpression in mature adipocytes ameliorated glucose sensitivity and impacted sympathetic innervation signaling. These findings highlight the importance of targeting SIRT6 enzymatic activities to regulate the co-morbidities associated with obesity.
PXD047483	39033143	Characterization of a Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium lineage with rough colony morphology and multidrug resistance. 	A novel variant of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium with a rough colony morphology and multidrug resistance	Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, multidrug resistance	Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium) is a major cause of salmonellosis, and the emergence of multidrug-resistant pathovariants has become a growing concern. Here, we investigate a distinct rough colony variant exhibiting a strong biofilm-forming ability isolated in China. Whole-genome sequencing on 2,212 Chinese isolates and 1,739 publicly available genomes reveals the population structure and evolutionary history of the rough colony variants. Characterized by macro, red, dry, and rough (mrdar) colonies, these variants demonstrate enhanced biofilm formation at 28 degreesC and 37 degreesC compared to typical rdar colonies. The mrdar variants exhibit extensive multidrug resistance, with significantly higher resistance to at least five classes of antimicrobial agents compared to non-mrdar variants. This resistance is primarily conferred by an IncHI2 plasmid harboring 19 antimicrobial resistance genes. Phylogenomic analysis divides the global collections into six lineages. The majority of mrdar variants belong to sublineage L6.5, which originated from Chinese smooth colony strains and possibly emerged circa 1977. Among the mrdar variants, upregulation of the csgDEFG operons is observed, probably due to a distinct point mutation (-44G > T) in the csgD gene promoter. Pangenome and genome-wide association analyses identify 87 specific accessory genes and 72 distinct single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with the mrdar morphotype.
PXD052417	39038168	Proteomic Analysis of Heloderma horridum horridum Venom: Assessment to Its Transcriptome and Newfound Proteins. 	Proteomic analysis of Heloderma horridum horridum venom	Enzymatic activities, Lizard, Venom	Heloderma horridum horridum, a venomous reptile native to America, has a venom with potential applications in treating type II diabetes. In this work, H. h. horridum venom was extracted, lyophilized, and characterized using enzymatic assays for hyaluronidase, phospholipase, and protease. Proteomic analysis of the venom was conducted employing bottom-up/shotgun approaches, SDS-PAGE, high-pH reversed-phase chromatography, and fractionation of tryptic peptides using nano-LC-MS/MS. The proteins found in H. h. horridum venom were reviewed according to the classification of the transcriptome previously reported. The proteomic approach identified 101 enzymes, 36 other proteins, 15 protein inhibitors, 11 host defense proteins, and 1 toxin, including novel venom components such as calcium-binding proteins, phospholipase A2 inhibitors, serpins, cathepsin, subtilases, carboxypeptidase-like, aminopeptidases, glycoside hydrolases, thioredoxin transferases, acid ceramidase-like, enolase, multicopper oxidases, phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI), fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase class 1, pentraxin-related, peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase/peptidyl-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase, carbonic anhydrase, acetylcholinesterase, dipeptidylpeptidase, and lysozymes. These findings contribute to understanding the venomous nature of H. h. horridum and highlight its potential as a source of bioactive compounds. Data are available via PRoteomeXchange with the identifier PXD052417.
PXD052372	39038813	CircMAN1A2_009 facilitates YBX1 nuclear localization to induce GLO1 activation for cervical adenocarcinoma cell growth. 	circMAN1A2_009-pulled down proteins in HeLa cells	HeLa, circMAN1A2_009, pull-down assays	The molecular mechanisms driving the development of cervical adenocarcinoma (CADC) and optimal patient management strategies remain elusive. In this study, we have identified circMAN1A2_009 as an oncogenic circular RNA (circRNA) in CADC. Clinically, circMAN1A2_009 showed significant upregulation in CADC tissues, with an impressive area under the curve value of 0.8075 for detecting CADC. Functional studies, involving both gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments, revealed that circMAN1A2_009 suppressed reactive oxygen species accumulation and apoptosis, and boosted cell viability in CADC cells. Conversely, silencing circMAN1A2_009 reversed these effects. Further mechanistic investigations indicated that circMAN1A2_009 interacted with YBX1, facilitating the phosphorylation levels of YBX1 at serine 102 (p-YBX1(S102)) and facilitating YBX1 nuclear localization through sequence 245-251. This interaction subsequently increased the activity of the glyoxalase 1 (GLO1) promoter, leading to the activation of GLO1 expression. Consistently, inhibition of either YBX1 or GLO1 mirrored the biological effects of circMAN1A2_009 in CADC cells. Additionally, knockdown of YBX1 or GLO1 partially reversed the oncogenic behaviors induced by circMAN1A2_009. In conclusion, our findings propose circMAN1A2_009 as a potential oncogene and a promising indicator for diagnosing and guiding therapy in CADC patients.
PXD050224	39039092	Targeted degradation of extracellular mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase modulates immune responses. 	Targeted degradation of extracellular mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase modulates immune responses in bacterial pneumonia	DARS2, inflammation, pneumonia	The severity of bacterial pneumonia can be worsened by impaired innate immunity resulting in ineffective pathogen clearance. We describe a mitochondrial protein, aspartyl-tRNA synthetase (DARS2), which is released in circulation during bacterial pneumonia in humans and displays intrinsic innate immune properties and cellular repair properties. DARS2 interacts with a bacterial-induced ubiquitin E3 ligase subunit, FBXO24, which targets the synthetase for ubiquitylation and degradation, a process that is inhibited by DARS2 acetylation. During experimental pneumonia, Fbxo24 knockout mice exhibit elevated DARS2 levels with an increase in pulmonary cellular and cytokine levels. In silico modeling identified an FBXO24 inhibitory compound with immunostimulatory properties which extended DARS2 lifespan in cells. Here, we show a unique biological role for an extracellular, mitochondrially derived enzyme and its molecular control by the ubiquitin apparatus, which may serve as a mechanistic platform to enhance protective host immunity through small molecule discovery.
PXD052579	39041609	Inflammation-Derived and Clinical Indicator-Based Predictive Model for Ischemic Stroke Recovery. 	Serum LC-MSMS in patient of ischemic stroke	Human serum, ischemic stroke rehabilitation	BACKGROUND: Neuroinflammatory responses are closely associated with poststroke prognosis severity. This study aimed to develop a predictive model, combining inflammation-derived markers and clinical indicators, for distinguishing functional outcomes in patients with subacute ischemic stroke. METHODS AND RESULTS: Based on activities of daily living assessments, ischemic stroke participants were categorized into groups with little effective (LE) recovery and obvious effective (OE) recovery. Initial biocandidates were identified by overlapping differentially expressed proteins from proteomics of clinical serum samples (5 LE, 5 OE, and 6 healthy controls) and differentially expressed genes from an RNA sequence of the ischemic cortex in middle cerebral artery occlusion mice (n=3). Multidimensional validations were conducted in ischemia-reperfusion models and a clinical cohort (15 LE, 11 OE, and 18 healthy controls). Models of robust biocandidates combined with clinical indicators were developed with machine learning in the training data set and prediction in another test data set (15 LE and 11 OE). We identified 194 differentially expressed proteins (LE versus healthy controls) and 174 differentially expressed proteins (OE versus healthy controls) in human serum, and 5121 differentially expressed genes (day 3) and 5906 differentially expressed genes (day 7) in middle cerebral artery occlusion mice cortex. Inflammation-derived biomarkers TIMP1 (tissue inhibitor metalloproteinase-1) and galactosidase-binding protein LGLAS3 (galectin-3) exhibited robust increases under ischemic injury in mice and humans. TIMP1 and LGALS3 coupled with clinical indicators (hemoglobin, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and uric acid) were developed into a combined model for differentiating functional outcome with high accuracy (area under the curve, 0.8). CONCLUSIONS: The combined model is a valuable tool for evaluating prognostic outcomes, and the predictive factors can facilitate development of better treatment strategies.
PXD049987	39043630	Intrauterine hyperglycaemia during late gestation caused mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle of male offspring through CREB/PGC1A signaling. 	Intrauterine hyperglycemia during late gestation caused mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle of male offspring through CREB/PGC1A signaling	mouse embryonic skeletal muscle in limb	BACKGROUND: Maternal diabetes mellitus can influence the development of offspring. Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) creates a short-term intrauterine hyperglycaemic environment in offspring, leading to glucose intolerance in later life, but the long-term effects and specific mechanism involved in skeletal muscle dysfunction in offspring remain to be clarified. METHODS: Pregnant mice were divided into two groups: The GDM group was intraperitoneally injected with 100 mg/kg streptozotocin on gestational days (GDs) 6.5 and 12.5, while the control (CTR) group was treated with vehicle buffer. Only pregnant mice whose random blood glucose level was higher than 16.8 mmol/L beginning on GD13.5 were regarded as the GDM group. The growth of the offspring was monitored, and the glucose tolerance test was performed at different time points. Body composition analysis and immunohistochemical methods were used to evaluate the development of lean mass at 8 weeks. The exercise capacity and grip strength of the male mouse offspring were assessed at the same period. Transmission electron microscopy was used to observe the morphology inside skeletal muscle at 8 weeks and as a foetus. The genes and proteins associated with mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism were investigated. We also coanalyzed RNA sequencing and proteomics data to explore the underlying mechanism. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and bisulfite-converted DNA methylation detection were performed to evaluate this phenomenon. RESULTS: Short-term intrauterine hyperglycaemia inhibited the growth and reduced the lean mass of male offspring, leading to decreased endurance exercise capacity. The myofiber composition of the tibialis anterior muscle of GDM male offspring became more glycolytic and less oxidative. The morphology and function of mitochondria in the skeletal muscle of GDM male offspring were destroyed, and coanalysis of RNA sequencing and proteomics of foetal skeletal muscle showed that mitochondrial elements and lipid oxidation were consistently impaired. In vivo and in vitro myoblast experiments also demonstrated that high glucose concentrations impeded mitochondrial organisation and function. Importantly, the transcription of genes associated with mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism decreased at 8 weeks and during the foetal period. We predicted Ppargc1alpha as a key upstream regulator with the help of IPA software. The proteins and mRNA levels of Ppargc1alpha in the skeletal muscle of GDM male offspring were decreased as a foetus (CTR vs. GDM, 1.004 vs. 0.665, p = 0.002), at 6 weeks (1.018 vs. 0.511, p = 0.023) and 8 weeks (1.006 vs. 0.596, p = 0.018). In addition, CREB phosphorylation was inhibited in GDM group, with fewer activated pCREB proteins binding to the CRE element of Ppargc1alpha (1.042 vs. 0.681, p = 0.037), Pck1 (1.091 vs. 0.432, p = 0.014) and G6pc (1.118 vs. 0.472, p = 0.027), resulting in their decreased transcription. Interestingly, we found that sarcopenia and mitochondrial dysfunction could even be inherited by the next generation. CONCLUSIONS: Short-term intrauterine hyperglycaemia significantly reduced lean mass in male offspring at 8 weeks, resulting in decreased exercise endurance and metabolic disorders. Disrupted organisation and function of the mitochondria in skeletal muscle were also observed among them. Foetal exposure to hyperglycaemia decreased the ratio of phosphorylated CREB and reduced the transcription of Ppargc1alpha, which inhibited the transcription of downstream genes involving in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. Abnormal mitochondria, which might be transmitted through aberrant gametes, were also observed in the F2 generation.
PXD043045	39044605	Integration of metagenomics and metaproteomics in the intestinal lavage fluids benefits construction of discriminative model and discovery of biomarkers for HBV liver diseases. 	Multi-omics analysis of intestinal lavage fluid obtained from patients with liver disease	IVF, liver disease, metaproteomics	Intestinal lavage fluid (IVF) containing the mucosa-associated microbiota instead of fecal samples was used to study the gut microbiota using different omics approaches. Focusing on the 63 IVF samples collected from healthy and hepatitis B virus-liver disease (HBV-LD), a question is prompted whether omics features could be extracted to distinguish these samples. The IVF-related microbiota derived from the omics data was classified into two enterotype sets, whereas the genomics-based enterotypes were poorly overlapped with the proteomics-based one in either distribution of microbiota or of IVFs. There is lack of molecular features in these enterotypes to specifically recognize healthy or HBV-LD. Running machine learning against the omics data sought the appropriate models to discriminate the healthy and HBV-LD IVFs based on selected genes or proteins. Although a single omics dataset is basically workable in such discrimination, integration of the two datasets enhances discrimination efficiency. The protein features with higher frequencies in the models are further compared between healthy and HBV-LD based on their abundance, bringing about three potential protein biomarkers. This study highlights that integration of metaomics data is beneficial for a molecular discriminator of healthy and HBV-LD, and reveals the IVF samples are valuable for microbiome in a small cohort.
PXD052726	39045341	Optimization of ultracentrifugation-based method to enhance the purity and proteomic profiling depth of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles and particles. 	Optimization of ultracentrifugation-based method to enhance the purity and proteomic profiling depth of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles and particles	Extracellular vesicles and particles (EVPs), biomarkers, early cancer detection	Circulating extracellular vesicles and particles (EVPs) are being investigated as potential biomarkers for early cancer detection, prognosis, and disease monitoring. However, the suboptimal purity of EVPs isolated from peripheral blood plasma has posed a challenge of in-depth analysis of the EVP proteome. Here, we compared the effectiveness of different methods for isolating EVPs from healthy donor plasma, including ultracentrifugation (UC)-based protocols, phosphatidylserine-Tim4 interaction-based affinity capture (referred to as "PS"), and several commercial kits. Modified UC methods with an additional UC washing or size exclusion chromatography step substantially improved EVP purity and enabled the detection of additional proteins via proteomic mass spectrometry, including many plasma membrane and cytoplasmic proteins involved in vesicular regulation pathways. This improved performance was reproduced in cancer patient plasma specimens, resulting in the identification of a greater number of differentially expressed EVP proteins, thus expanding the range of potential biomarker candidates. However, PS and other commercial kits did not outperform UC-based methods in improving plasma EVP purity. PS yielded abundant contaminating proteins and a biased enrichment for specific EVP subsets, thus unsuitable for proteomic profiling of plasma EVPs. Therefore, we have optimized UC-based protocols for circulating EVP isolation, which enable further in-depth proteomic analysis for biomarker discovery.
PXD053108	39046874	Alterations of ceramide synthesis induce PD-L1 internalization and signaling to regulate tumor metastasis and immunotherapy response. 	Alterations of Ceramide Synthesis Induce PD-L1 Internalization and Signaling to Regulate Tumor Metastasis and Immunotherapy Response	CerS4, Ceramide, Immunotherapy, Metastasis, PD-L1, Sonic-Hedgehog, Sphingolipid	Programmed death ligand 1, PD-L1 (CD274), facilitates immune evasion and exerts pro-survival functions in cancer cells. Here, we report a mechanism whereby internalization of PD-L1 in response to alterations of bioactive lipid/ceramide metabolism by ceramide synthase 4 (CerS4) induces sonic hedgehog (Shh) and transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling to enhance tumor metastasis in triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs), exhibiting immunotherapy resistance. Mechanistically, data showed that internalized PD-L1 interacts with an RNA-binding protein, caprin-1, to stabilize Shh/TGFBR1/Wnt mRNAs to induce beta-catenin signaling and TNBC growth/metastasis, consistent with increased infiltration of FoxP3(+) regulatory T cells and resistance to immunotherapy. While mammary tumors developed in MMTV-PyMT/CerS4(-/-) were highly metastatic, targeting the Shh/PD-L1 axis using sonidegib and anti-PD-L1 antibody vastly decreased tumor growth and metastasis, consistent with the inhibition of PD-L1 internalization and Shh/Wnt signaling, restoring anti-tumor immune response. These data, validated in clinical samples and databases, provide a mechanism-based therapeutic strategy to improve immunotherapy responses in metastatic TNBCs.
PXD050326	39048819	Cryo-EM architecture of a near-native stretch-sensitive membrane microdomain. 	CryoEM architecture of a near-native stretch-sensitive membrane microdomain	Lsp1, Membrane microdomain, Pil1, eisosome	Biological membranes are partitioned into functional zones termed membrane microdomains, which contain specific lipids and proteins(1-3). The composition and organization of membrane microdomains remain controversial because few techniques are available that allow the visualization of lipids in situ without disrupting their native behaviour(3,4). The yeast eisosome, composed of the BAR-domain proteins Pil1 and Lsp1 (hereafter, Pil1/Lsp1), scaffolds a membrane compartment that senses and responds to mechanical stress by flattening and releasing sequestered factors(5-9). Here we isolated near-native eisosomes as helical tubules made up of a lattice of Pil1/Lsp1 bound to plasma membrane lipids, and solved their structures by helical reconstruction. Our structures reveal a striking organization of membrane lipids, and, using in vitro reconstitutions and molecular dynamics simulations, we confirmed the positioning of individual PI(4,5)P2, phosphatidylserine and sterol molecules sequestered beneath the Pil1/Lsp1 coat. Three-dimensional variability analysis of the native-source eisosomes revealed a dynamic stretching of the Pil1/Lsp1 lattice that affects the sequestration of these lipids. Collectively, our results support a mechanism in which stretching of the Pil1/Lsp1 lattice liberates lipids that would otherwise be anchored by the Pil1/Lsp1 coat, and thus provide mechanistic insight into how eisosome BAR-domain proteins create a mechanosensitive membrane microdomain.
PXD053797	39051560	RNA encoded peptide barcodes enable efficient in vivo screening of RNA delivery systems. 	RNA Encoded Peptide Barcodes Enable Efficient in vivo Screening of RNA Delivery Systems	LNP, RNA, barcodes, high throughput, in vivo	Lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) have been demonstrated to hold great promise for the clinical advancement of RNA therapeutics. Continued exploration of LNPs for application in new disease areas requires identification and optimization of leads in a high throughput way. Currently available high throughput in vivo screening platforms are well suited to screen for cellular uptake but less so for functional cargo delivery. We report on a platform which measures functional delivery of LNPs using unique peptide 'barcodes'. We describe the design and selection of the peptide barcodes and the evaluation of these for the screening of LNPs. We show that proteomic analysis of peptide barcodes correlates with quantification and efficacy of barcoded reporter proteins both in vitro and in vivo and, that the ranking of selected LNPs using peptide barcodes in a pool correlates with ranking using alternative methods in groups of animals treated with individual LNPs. We show that this system is sensitive, selective, and capable of reducing the size of an in vivo study by screening up to 10 unique formulations in a single pool, thus accelerating the discovery of new technologies for mRNA delivery.
PXD046811	39052308	Development of a Global Metabo-Lipid-Prote-omics Workflow to Compare Healthy Proximal and Distal Colonic Epithelium in Mice. 	Development of a Global Metabo-Lipid-Prote-omics Workflow to Compare Healthy Proximal and Distal Colonic Epithelium in Mice	Metabo-lipid-proteomics, Methyl tert-butyl ether, Mouse proximal and distal colons, multi-omics	A multimetabo-lipid-prote-omics workflow was developed to characterize the molecular interplay within proximal (PC) and distal (DC) colonic epithelium of healthy mice. This multiomics data set lays the foundation to better understand the two tissue types and can be used to study, for example, colon-related diseases like colorectal cancer or inflammatory bowel disease. First, the methyl tert-butyl ether extraction method was optimized, so that from a single tissue biopsy >350 reference-matched metabolites, >1850 reference-matched lipids, and >4500 proteins were detected by using targeted and untargeted metabolomics, untargeted lipidomics, and proteomics. Next, each omics-data set was analyzed individually and then merged with the additional omics disciplines to generate a deep understanding of the underlying complex regulatory network within the colon. Our data demonstrates, for example, differences in mucin formation, detected on substrate level as well as on enzyme level, and altered lipid metabolism by the detection of phospholipases hydrolyzing sphingomyelins to ceramides. In conclusion, the combination of the three mass spectrometry-based omics techniques can better entangle the functional and regional differences between PC and DC tissue compared to each single omics technique.
PXD045864	39052621	Dual-Probe Activity-Based Protein Profiling Reveals Site-Specific Differences in Protein Binding of EGFR-Directed Drugs. 	Dual-Probe Activity-Based Protein Profiling Reveals Site-Specific Binding Dynamics of EGFR-Directed Drugs	Activity-based protein profiling, Chemical proteomics, Concentration-dependent analysis, Dual-probe comparison., Site-specific	Comparative, dose-dependent analysis of interactions between small molecule drugs and their targets, as well as off-target interactions, in complex proteomes is crucial for selecting optimal drug candidates. The affinity of small molecules for targeted proteins is largely dictated by interactions between amino acid side chains and these drugs. Thus, studying drug-protein interactions at an amino acid resolution provides a comprehensive understanding of the drug selectivity and efficacy. In this study, we further refined the site-specific activity-based protein profiling strategy (ABPP), PhosID-ABPP, on a timsTOF HT mass spectrometer. This refinement enables dual dose-dependent competition of inhibitors within a single cellular proteome. Here, a comparative analysis of two activity-based probes (ABPs), developed to selectively target the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), namely, PF-06672131 (PF131) and PF-6422899 (PF899), facilitated the simultaneous identification of ABP-specific binding sites at a proteome-wide scale within a cellular proteome. Dose-dependent probe-binding preferences for proteinaceous cysteines, even at low nanomolar ABP concentrations, could be revealed. Notably, in addition to the intrinsic affinity of the electrophilic probes for specific sites in targeted proteins, the observed labeling intensity is influenced by several other factors. These include the efficiency of cellular uptake, the stability of the probes, and their intracellular distribution. While both ABPs showed comparable labeling efficiency for EGFR, PF131 had a broader off-target reactivity profile. In contrast, PF899 exhibited a higher labeling efficiency for the ERBB2 receptor and bound to catalytic cysteines in several other enzymes, which is likely to disrupt their catalytic activity. Notably, PF131 effectively labeled ADP/ATP translocase proteins at a concentration of just 1 nm, and we found this affected ATP transport. Analysis of the effect of PF131 and its parent inhibitor Afatinib on murine translocase SLC25A4 (ANT1)-mediated ATP transport strongly indicated that PF131 (10 muM) partially blocked ATP transport. Afatinib was less efficient at inhibiting ATP transport by SLC25A4 than PF131, and the reduction of ATP transport by Afatinib was not significant. Follow-up analysis is required to evaluate the affinity of these inhibitors for ADP/ATP translocase SLC25A4 in more detail. Additionally, the analysis of different binding sites within the EGF receptor and the voltage-dependent anion channel 2 revealed secondary binding sites of both probes and provided insights into the binding poses of inhibitors on these proteins. Insights from the PhosID-ABPP analysis of these two ABPs serve as a valuable resource for understanding drug on- and off-target engagement in a dose- and site-specific manner.
PXD042746	39052867	Integrative Omics Uncovers Low Tumorous Magnesium Content as A Driver Factor of Colorectal Cancer. 	Integrative omics reveals magnesium deficiency as a driver factor of colorectal cancer	Colon cancer, DBN1, genome stability, immunosuppression, magnesium, metastasis, omics	Magnesium (Mg) deficiency is associated with increased risk and malignancy in colorectal cancer (CRC), yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we used genomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic data to elucidate the impact of Mg deficiency on CRC. Genomic analysis identified 160 genes with higher mutation frequencies in Low-Mg tumors, including key driver genes such as KMT2C and ERBB3. Unexpectedly, initiation driver genes of CRC, such as TP53 and APC, displayed higher mutation frequencies in High-Mg tumors. Additionally, proteomic and phosphoproteomic data indicated that low Mg content in tumors may activate epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) by modulating inflammation or remodeling the phosphoproteome of cancer cells. Notably, we observed a negative correlation between the phosphorylation of DBN1 at S142 (DBN1S142p) and Mg content. A mutation in S142 to D (DBN1S142D) mimicking DBN1S142p upregulated MMP2 and enhanced cell migration, while treatment with MgCl2 reduced DBN1S142p, thereby reversing this phenotype. Mechanistically, Mg2+ attenuated the DBN1-ACTN4 interaction by decreasing DBN1S142p, which in turn enhanced the binding of ACTN4 to F-actin and promoted F-actin polymerization, ultimately reducing MMP2 expression. These findings shed new light on the crucial role of Mg deficiency in CRC progression and suggest that Mg supplementation may be a promising preventive and therapeutic strategy for CRC.
PXD023315	39053808	Identification of low-abundance proteins in the royal jelly using the Osborne classification method. 	Proteomic Analysis of Xinjiang Black Bee's Royal Jelly Using the Osboren Classification Method	Osboren classification, low-abundance protein, oyal jelly	Royal jelly (RJ) is recognized as healthy food, with a high content of proteins. These proteins play important roles in honeybee caste and human health, but the proteomic analysis of low-abundance proteins in RJ has long been a challenge. Herein, we used the Osborne classification method to separate the RJ proteins of Xinjiang black bees into various fractions. The globulin, ethanol-soluble protein, and glutelin fractions were further separated by SDS-PAGE, and proteomic analysis was carried out by LC-MS/MS and searched against the UniProt database. A total of 23 secretory proteins were identified by proteomic analysis, in which 7 proteins were identified for the first time in RJ. The Osborne classification method combining one-dimensional gel electrophoresis-based proteomic analysis allows the identification of low-abundance proteins in the RJ and greatly extends the knowledge about the components and functions of RJ proteins. The raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD023315. SIGNIFICANCE: This study makes an important contribution to the research of the components and functions of low-abundance royal jelly proteins for the following reasons.
PXD047651	39054315	Epigenetic memory is governed by an effector recruitment specificity toggle in Heterochromatin Protein 1. 	Identification of a novel, tunable interface in the S.pombe HP1 protein, Swi6, that underpins epigenetic inheritance.	QuantIP, TMT-MS, epigenetics	HP1 proteins are essential for establishing and maintaining transcriptionally silent heterochromatin. They dimerize, forming a binding interface to recruit diverse chromatin-associated factors. Although HP1 proteins are known to rapidly evolve, the extent of variation required to achieve functional specialization is unknown. To investigate how changes in amino acid sequence impacts heterochromatin formation, we performed a targeted mutagenesis screen of the S. pombe HP1 homolog, Swi6. Substitutions within an auxiliary surface adjacent to the HP1 dimerization interface produce Swi6 variants with divergent maintenance properties. Remarkably, substitutions at a single amino acid position lead to the persistent gain or loss of epigenetic inheritance. These substitutions increase Swi6 chromatin occupancy in vivo and altered Swi6-protein interactions that reprogram H3K9me maintenance. We show how relatively minor changes in Swi6 amino acid composition in an auxiliary surface can lead to profound changes in epigenetic inheritance providing a redundant mechanism to evolve HP1-effector specificity.
PXD048269	39055156	Engineering Yeast Peroxisomes for alpha-Bisabolene Production from Sole Methanol with the Aid of Proteomic Analysis. 	Engineered Pichia pastoris LC-MSMS	Pichia pastoris	Microbial metabolic engineering provides a feasible approach to sustainably produce advanced biofuels and biochemicals from renewable feedstocks. Methanol is an ideal feedstock since it can be massively produced from CO2 through green energy, such as solar energy. However, engineering microbes to transform methanol and overproduce chemicals is challenging. Notably, the microbial production of isoprenoids from methanol is still rarely reported. Here, we extensively engineered Pichia pastoris (syn. Komagataella phaffii) for the overproduction of sesquiterpene alpha-bisabolene from sole methanol by optimizing the mevalonate pathway and peroxisomal compartmentalization. Furthermore, through label-free quantification (LFQ) proteomic analysis of the engineered strains, we identified the key bottlenecks in the peroxisomal targeting pathway, and overexpressing the limiting enzyme EfmvaE significantly improved alpha-bisabolene production to 212 mg/L with the peroxisomal pathway. The engineered strain LH122 with the optimized peroxisomal pathway produced 1.1 g/L alpha-bisabolene under fed-batch fermentation in shake flasks, achieving a 69% increase over that of the cytosolic pathway. This study provides a viable approach for overproducing isoprenoid from sole methanol in engineered yeast cell factories and shows that proteomic analysis can help optimize the organelle compartmentalized pathways to enhance chemical production.
PXD027557	39055942	Pulmonary and renal long COVID at two-year revisit. 	Pulmonary and Renal Long COVID at Two-year Revisit	COVID-19, longitudinal, serum, urine	This study investigated host responses to long COVID by following up with 89 of the original 144 cohorts for 1-year (N = 73) and 2-year visits (N = 57). Pulmonary long COVID, characterized by fibrous stripes, was observed in 8.7% and 17.8% of patients at the 1-year and 2-year revisits, respectively, while renal long COVID was present in 15.2% and 23.9% of patients, respectively. Pulmonary and renal long COVID at 1-year revisit was predicted using a machine learning model based on clinical and multi-omics data collected during the first month of the disease with an accuracy of 87.5%. Proteomics revealed that lung fibrous stripes were associated with consistent down-regulation of surfactant-associated protein B in the sera, while renal long COVID could be linked to the inhibition of urinary protein expression. This study provides a longitudinal view of the clinical and molecular landscape of COVID-19 and presents a predictive model for pulmonary and renal long COVID.
PXD053515	39056441	FANS Unfixed: Isolation and Proteomic Analysis of Mouse Cell Type-Specific Brain Nuclei. 	FANS unfixed: isolation and proteomic analysis of mouse cell type-specific brain nuclei	FANS, cell-type specific, epigenetics, microglia, neurons, oligodendrocytes	Epigenetic-mediated gene regulation orchestrates brain cell-type gene expression programs, and epigenetic dysregulation is a major driver of aging and disease-associated changes. Proteins that mediate gene regulation are mostly localized to the nucleus; however, nuclear-localized proteins are often underrepresented in gene expression studies and have been understudied in the context of the brain. To address this challenge, we have optimized an approach for nuclei isolation that is compatible with proteomic analysis. This was coupled to a mass spectrometry protocol for detecting proteins in low-concentration samples. We have generated nuclear proteomes for neurons, microglia, and oligodendrocytes from the mouse brain cortex and identified cell-type nuclear proteins associated with chromatin structure and organization, chromatin modifiers such as transcription factors, and RNA-binding proteins, among others. Our nuclear proteomics platform paves the way for assessing brain cell type changes in the nuclear proteome across health and disease, such as neurodevelopmental, aging, neurodegenerative, and neuroinflammatory conditions. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD053515.
PXD051926	39057790	Effects of Copper on Legionella pneumophila Revealed via Viability Assays and Proteomics. 	Effects of Copper on Legionella pneumophila Revealed via Viability Assays and Proteomics	AhpD, Copper, Legionella pneumophila, amoebae	Cu is an antimicrobial that is commonly applied to premise (i.e., building) plumbing systems for Legionella control, but the precise mechanisms of inactivation are not well defined. Here, we applied a suite of viability assays and mass spectrometry-based proteomics to assess the mechanistic effects of Cu on L. pneumophila. Although a five- to six-log reduction in culturability was observed with 5 mg/L Cu(2+) exposure, cell membrane integrity only indicated a <50% reduction. Whole-cell proteomic analysis revealed that AhpD, a protein related to oxidative stress, was elevated in Cu-exposed Legionella relative to culturable cells. Other proteins related to cell membrane synthesis and motility were also higher for the Cu-exposed cells relative to controls without Cu. While the proteins related to primary metabolism decreased for the Cu-exposed cells, no significant differences in the abundance of proteins related to virulence or infectivity were found, which was consistent with the ability of VBNC cells to cause infections. Whereas the cell-membrane integrity assay provided an upper-bound measurement of viability, an amoebae co-culture assay provided a lower-bound limit. The findings have important implications for assessing Legionella risk following its exposure to copper in engineered water systems.
PXD051299	39058979	Polydopamine Nanoparticle-Based Combined Chemotherapy and Photothermal Therapy for the Treatment of Liver Cancer. 	Polydopamine nanoparticles-based hyperthermal chemotherapy for the treatment of liver cancer	Polydopamine nanoparticles, homotypic targeting, hyperthermia, sorafenib	Polydopamine nanoparticles (PDA NPs) are proposed as an anti-cancer tool against hepatocellular carcinoma through the combination of near-infrared (NIR)-mediated hyperthermia and loading with a chemotherapeutic drug, sorafenib (SRF). Cell membranes isolated from a liver cancer cell line (HepG2) have been exploited for the coating of the nanoparticles (thus obtaining CM-SRF-PDA NPs), to promote homotypic targeting toward cancer cells. The selective targeting ability and the combined photothermal and chemotherapeutic activity of the CM-SRF-PDA NPs following NIR irradiation have been evaluated on cell cultures in static and dynamic conditions, besides three-dimensional culture models. Eventually, the therapeutic effectiveness of the proposed approach has also been tested ex ovo on HepG2 spheroid-grafted quail embryos. This comprehensive investigation, supported by proteomic analysis, showed the effectiveness of the proposed nanoplatform and strongly suggests further pre-clinical testing in the treatment of liver cancer.
PXD052806	39062514	Investigating the Antifibrotic Effects of beta-Citronellol on a TGF-beta1-Stimulated LX-2 Hepatic Stellate Cell Model. 	Investigating the Antifibrotic Effects of beta-Citronellol on a TGF-beta1-stimulated LX-2 Hepatic Stellate Cell Model	Citrus hystrix DC., Hepatic stellate cell, Liver fibrosis, Proteomic analysis, beta-citronellol	Liver fibrosis, a consequence of chronic liver damage or inflammation, is characterized by the excessive buildup of extracellular matrix components. This progressive condition significantly raises the risk of severe liver diseases like cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The lack of approved therapeutics underscores the urgent need for novel anti-fibrotic drugs. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), key players in fibrogenesis, are promising targets for drug discovery. This study investigated the anti-fibrotic potential of Citrus hystrix DC. (KL) and its bioactive compound, beta-citronellol (beta-CIT), in a human HSC cell line (LX-2). Cells exposed to TGF-beta1 to induce fibrogenesis were co-treated with crude KL extract and beta-CIT. Gene expression was analyzed by real-time qRT-PCR to assess fibrosis-associated genes (ACTA2, COL1A1, TIMP1, SMAD2). The release of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) was measured by ELISA. Proteomic analysis and molecular docking identified potential signaling proteins and modeled protein-ligand interactions. The results showed that both crude KL extract and beta-CIT suppressed HSC activation genes and MMP-9 levels. The MAPK signaling pathway emerged as a potential target of beta-CIT. This study demonstrates the ability of KL extract and beta-CIT to inhibit HSC activation during TGF-beta1-induced fibrogenesis, suggesting a promising role of beta-CIT in anti-hepatic fibrosis therapies.
PXD052899	39062782	Comparative Brain Proteomic Analysis between Sham and Cerebral Ischemia Experimental Groups. 	Comparative brain proteomic analysis between sham and cerebral ischemia experimental groups	Animal models, experimental design, sham, stroke.	Sham control groups are essential in experimental animal studies to reduce the influence of surgical intervention. The intraluminal filament procedure is one of the most common models of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) used in the study of brain ischemia. However, a sham group is usually not included in the experimental design of these studies. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the relevance of the sham group by analyzing and comparing the brain protein profiles of the sham and MCAO groups. In the sham group, 98 dysregulated proteins were detected, compared to 171 in the ischemic group. Moreover, a comparative study of protein profiles revealed the existence of a pool of 57 proteins that appeared to be dysregulated in both sham and ischemic animals. These results indicated that the surgical procedure required for the intraluminal occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) induces changes in brain protein expression that are not associated with ischemic lesions. This study highlights the importance of including sham control groups in the experimental design, to ensure that surgical intervention does not affect the therapeutic target under study.
PXD047457	39062942	Exploring the Mechanism of H2S Synthesis in Male Bactrian Camel Poll Glands Based on Data Independent Acquisition Proteomics and Non-Targeted Metabolomics. 	DIA proteomics in neck gland tissue of male Bactrian camel	DIA proteomics, male Bactrian camel, neck gland	During estrus, the poll glands of male Bactrian Camels (Camelus Bactrianus) become slightly raised, exuding a large amount of pale yellow watery secretion with a characteristic odor that may contain hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, whether H2S can be synthesized in the poll glands of male Bactrian Camels and its role in inducing camel estrus remains unclear. This study aimed to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and signaling pathways in the poll gland tissues of male Bactrian Camels using data independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics. Additionally, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was performed to identify differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) in the neck hair containing secretions during estrus in male Bactrian Camels, to explore the specific expression patterns and mechanisms in the poll glands of camels during estrus. The results showed that cystathionine-gamma-lyase (CTH) and cystathionine-beta-synthase (CBS), which are closely related to H2S synthesis in camel poll glands during estrus, were mainly enriched in glycine, serine, and threonine metabolism, amino acid biosynthesis, and metabolic pathways. In addition, both enzymes were widely distributed and highly expressed in the acinar cells of poll gland tissues in camels during estrus. Meanwhile, the neck hair secretion contains high levels of amino acids, especially glycine, serine, threonine, and cystathionine, which are precursors for H2S biosynthesis. These results demonstrate that the poll glands of male Bactrian Camels can synthesize and secrete H2S during estrus. This study provides a basis for exploring the function and mechanism of H2S in the estrus of Bactrian Camels.
PXD050238	39067049	Proteomics and Metabolic Characteristics of Boar Seminal Plasma Extracellular Vesicles Reveal Biomarker Candidates Related to Sperm Motility. 	Pig,Seminal plasma extracellular vesicles,LC-MS	LC-MS, Pig, Seminal plasma extracellular vesicles	Although seminal plasma extracellular vesicles (SPEVs) play important roles in sperm function, little is known about their metabolite compositions and roles in sperm motility. Here, we performed metabolomics and proteomics analysis of boar SPEVs with high or low sperm motility to investigate specific biomarkers affecting sperm motility. In total, 140 proteins and 32 metabolites were obtained through differentially expressed analysis and weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA). Seven differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) (ADIRF, EPS8L1, PRCP, CD81, PTPRD, CSK, LOC100736569) and six differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) (adenosine, beclomethasone, 1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid, urea, 1-methyl-l-histidine, and palmitic acid) were also identified in WGCNA significant modules. Joint pathway analysis revealed that three DEPs (GART, ADCY7, and NTPCR) and two DEMs (urea and adenosine) were involved in purine metabolism. Our results suggested that there was significant correlation between proteins and metabolites, such as IL4I1 and urea (r = 0.86). Furthermore, we detected the expression level of GART, ADCY7, and CDC42 in sperm of two groups, which further verified the experimental results. This study revealed that several proteins and metabolites in SPEVs play important roles in sperm motility. Our results offered new insights into the complex mechanism of sperm motility and identified potential biomarkers for male reproductive diseases.
PXD049260	39067443	Extensive structural rearrangement of intraflagellar transport trains underpins bidirectional cargo transport. 	Extensive structural rearrangement of intraflagellar transport trains underpins bidirectional cargo transport (Proteomics	chlamydomonas reinhardtii, cilia, crosslinking mass spectrometry, intraflagellar transport	Bidirectional transport in cilia is carried out by polymers of the IFTA and IFTB protein complexes, called anterograde and retrograde intraflagellar transport (IFT) trains. Anterograde trains deliver cargoes from the cell to the cilium tip, then convert into retrograde trains for cargo export. We set out to understand how the IFT complexes can perform these two directly opposing roles before and after conversion. We use cryoelectron tomography and in situ cross-linking mass spectrometry to determine the structure of retrograde IFT trains and compare it with the known structure of anterograde trains. The retrograde train is a 2-fold symmetric polymer organized around a central thread of IFTA complexes. We conclude that anterograde-to-retrograde remodeling involves global rearrangements of the IFTA/B complexes and requires complete disassembly of the anterograde train. Finally, we describe how conformational changes to cargo-binding sites facilitate unidirectional cargo transport in a bidirectional system.
PXD049202	39067520	Automated preparation of plasma lipids, metabolites, and proteins for LC/MS-based analysis of a high-fat diet in mice. 	Automated preparation of plasma lipids, metabolites, and proteins for LC/MS-based analysis of a high-fat diet in mice	Human Proteome Project, Plasma (B/D-HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), mouse plasma, multiomics	Blood plasma is one of the most commonly analyzed and easily accessible biological samples. Here, we describe an automated liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) platform that generates accurate, precise, and reproducible samples for metabolomic, lipidomic, and proteomic analyses from a single aliquot of plasma while minimizing hands-on time and avoiding contamination from plasticware. We applied mass spectrometry to examine the metabolome, lipidome, and proteome of 90 plasma samples to determine the effects of age, time of day, and a high-fat diet in mice. From 25 muL of mouse plasma, we identified 907 lipid species from 16 different lipid classes and subclasses, 233 polar metabolites, and 344 proteins. We found that the high-fat diet induced only mild changes in the polar metabolome, upregulated Apolipoproteins, and induced substantial shifts in the lipidome, including a significant increase in arachidonic acid (AA) and a decrease in eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) content across all lipid classes.
PXD045733	39068198	OCT1 (SLC22A1) transporter kinetics and regulation in primary human hepatocyte 3D spheroids. 	OCT1 (SLC22A1) transporter kinetics and regulation in primary human hepatocyte 3D spheroids	ADME, Hepatocytes, Liver	3D spheroids of primary human hepatocytes (3D PHH) retain a differentiated phenotype with largely conserved metabolic function and proteomic fingerprint over weeks in culture. As a result, 3D PHH are gaining importance as a model for mechanistic liver homeostasis studies and in vitro to in vivo extrapolation (IVIVE) in drug discovery. However, the kinetics and regulation of drug transporters have not yet been assessed in 3D PHH. Here, we used organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1/SLC22A1) as a model to study both transport kinetics and the long-term regulation of transporter activity via relevant signalling pathways. The kinetics of the OCT1 transporter was studied using the fluorescent model substrate 4-(4-(dimethylamino)styryl)-N-methylpyridinium (ASP+) and known OCT1 inhibitors in individual 3D PHH. For long-term studies, 3D PHH were treated with xenobiotics for seven days, after which protein expression and OCT1 function were assessed. Global proteomic analysis was used to track hepatic phenotypes as well as prototypical changes in other regulated proteins, such as P-glycoprotein and Cytochrome P450 3A4. ASP+ kinetics indicated a fully functional OCT1 transporter with a Km value of 14 +/- 4.0microM as the mean from three donors. Co-incubation with known OCT1 inhibitors decreased the uptake of ASP+ in the 3D PHH spheroids by 35-52%. The long-term exposure studies showed that OCT1 is relatively stable upon activation of nuclear receptor signalling or exposure to compounds that could induce inflammation, steatosis or liver injury. Our results demonstrate that 3D PHH spheroids express physiologically relevant levels of fully active OCT1 and that its transporter kinetics can be accurately studied in the 3D PHH configuration. We also confirm that OCT1 remains stable and functional during the activation of key metabolic pathways that alter the expression and function of other drug transporters and drug-metabolizing enzymes. These results will expand the range of studies that can be performed using 3D PHH.
PXD052981	39068696	Proteomic analysis of brain tissue from ducks with meningitis caused by Riemerella anatipestifer infection. 	Proteomic analysis of brain tissue from ducks with meningitis caused by Riemerella anatipestifer infection	Blood-brain barrier, Riemerella anatipestifer, paracellular pathway, transcellular pathway	Riemerella anatipestifer is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is flagellated, non-budded, and encapsulated, measuring approximately 0.4 mum x 0.7 mum. After infecting ducklings with R. anatipestifer, the hosts exhibited pathological changes, such as bacterial meningitis, fibrinous pericarditis, and fibrinous peripheral hepatitis. The pathogenesis of meningitis caused by R. anatipestifer has not yet been elucidated. To investigate the key molecules or proteins involved in R. anatipestifer's penetration of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the subsequent development of duck meningitis, a duck meningitis model was established and characterized. Duckling brain tissues were collected and analyzed using 4D label-free proteomic technology. Differentially expressed proteins were analyzed using a series of bioinformatics methods and verified using RT-qPCR and Western-Blot. The results showed that the differentially expressed proteins were primarily related to intracellular transport, transport protein activity, and transmembrane transport protein activity, and were mainly enriched in pathways associated with reducing intercellular connections and adhesion and increasing cell migration and apoptosis. Thus, it is suggested that R. anatipestifer may penetrate the BBB via transcellular and paracellular pathways, causing neurological diseases such as meningitis. This study is the first to analyze R. anatipestifer-infected duckling brain tissue using proteomics, thus providing a direction for further research into the mechanisms of R. anatipestifer's penetration of the BBB.
PXD048917	39069075	One-step N-terminomics based on isolation of protein N-terminal peptides from LysargiNase digests by tip-based strong cation exchange chromatography. 	One-step N-terminomics based on isolation of protein N-terminal peptides from LysargiNase digests by tip-based strong cation exchange chromatography	CHAMP, HEK293T, LysargiNase, N-terminomics, SCX	We have developed a one-step isolation method for protein N-terminal peptides from LysargiNase digests by pipette tip-based strong cation exchange (SCX) chromatography. This CHAMP-N (CHromatographic AMplification of Protein N-terminal peptides) method using disposable and parallel-processable SCX tips instead of conventional HPLC SCX columns facilitates simple, sensitive, reproducible and high-throughput N-terminomic profiling without sacrificing the high identification numbers and selectivity achieved by the HPLC-based method. By applying the CHAMP-N method to HEK293T cells, we identified novel cleavage sites for signal and transit peptides, and non-canonical translation initiation sites. Finally, for proteome-wide terminomics, we present a simple and comprehensive N- and C-terminomics platform employing three different tip-based approaches, including CHAMP-N, in which protease digestion and one-step isolation by tip LC are commonly used to achieve complementary terminome coverages.
PXD033027	39070276	The Efficacy of Risk Factor Modification Compared to NAD(+) Repletion in Diastolic Heart Failure. 	Prophylactic or therapeutic NAD+ repletion can prevent or rescue HFpEF, but dietary intervention and weight loss cannot	heart	Heart failure (HF) with left ventricular diastolic dysfunction is a growing global concern. This study evaluated myocardial oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) levels in human systolic and diastolic HF and in a murine model of HF with preserved ejection fraction, exploring NAD(+) repletion as therapy. We quantified myocardial NAD(+) and nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase levels, assessing restoration with nicotinamide riboside (NR). Findings show significant NAD(+) and nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase depletion in human diastolic HF myocardium, but NR successfully restored NAD(+) levels. In murine HF with preserved ejection fraction, NR as preventive and therapeutic intervention improved metabolic and antioxidant profiles. This study underscores NAD(+) repletion's potential in diastolic HF management.
PXD047274	39073273	A Photocrosslinking Probe to Capture the Substrates of Caseinolytic Protease P. 	A Photocrosslinking Probe to Capture the Substrates of Caseinolytic Protease P	S. aureus, substrates	Protein homeostasis in bacteria is regulated by proteases such as the tetradecameric caseinolytic protease P (ClpP). Although substrates of ClpP have been successfully deciphered in genetically engineered cells, methods which directly trap processed proteins within native cells remain elusive. Here, we introduce an in situ trapping strategy which utilizes trifunctional probes that bind to the active site serine of ClpP and capture adjacent substrates with an attached photocrosslinking moiety. After enrichment using an alkyne handle, substrate deconvolution by mass spectrometry (MS) is performed. We show that our two traps bind substoichiometrically to ClpP, retain protease activity, exhibit unprecedented selectivity for Staphylococcus aureus ClpP in living cells and capture numerous known and novel substrates. The exemplary validation of trapped hits using a targeted proteomics approach confirmed the fidelity of this technology. In conclusion, we provide a novel chemical platform suited for the discovery of serine protease substrates beyond genetic engineering.
PXD043380	39073916	Core microbiome-associated proteins associated with ulcerative colitis interact with cytokines for synergistic or antagonistic effects on gut bacteria. 	Deep metaproteomics of inflammatory bowel diseases	IBD metaproteomics	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), is associated with a loss or an imbalance of host-microorganism interactions. However, such interactions at protein levels remain largely unknown. Here, we applied a depletion-assisted metaproteomics approach to obtain in-depth host-microbiome association networks of IBD, where the core host proteins shifted from those maintaining mucosal homeostasis in controls to those involved in inflammation, proteolysis, and intestinal barrier in IBD. Microbial nodes such as short-chain fatty acid producer-related host-microbial crosstalk were lost or suppressed by inflammatory proteins in IBD. Guided by protein-protein association networks, we employed proteomics and lipidomics to investigate the effects of UC-related core proteins S100A8, S100A9, and cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha) on gut bacteria. These proteins suppressed purine nucleotide biosynthesis in stool-derived in vitro communities, which was all reduced in IBD stool samples. Single species study revealed that S100A8, S100A9, and cytokines can synergistically or antagonistically alter gut bacteria intracellular and secreted proteome, with combined S100A8 and S100A9 potently inhibiting beneficial Bifidobacterium adolescentis. Furthermore, these inflammatory proteins only altered the extracellular but not intracellular proteins of Ruminococcus gnavus. Generally, S100A8 induced more significant bacterial proteome changes than S100A9, IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha. But gut bacteria degrade significantly more S100A8 than S100A9 in the presence of both proteins. Among the investigated species, distinct lipid alterations were only observed in Bacteroides vulgatus treated with combined S100A8, S100A9, and cytokines. These results provided a valuable resource of inflammatory protein centric host-microbial molecular interactions.
PXD045799	39074206	Proteostasis as a fundamental principle of Tau immunotherapy. 	Target engagement of Tau antibodies induces reversal of proteomic dyshomeostasis in a mouse model of tauopathy	Alzheimer's disease, antibody, phosphoproteomics, tau, tauopathies	The microtubule-associated protein Tau is a driver of neuronal dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. In this process, Tau initially undergoes subtle changes to its abundance, subcellular localisation and a vast array of post-translational modifications including phosphorylation, that progressively result in the protein's somatodendritic accumulation and dysregulation of multiple Tau-dependent cellular processes. Given the various loss- and gain-of-functions of Tau in disease and the brain-wide changes in the proteome that characterise tauopathies, we asked whether targeting Tau would restore the alterations in proteostasis observed in disease. Therefore, by phage display, we generated a novel pan-Tau antibody, RNJ1, that preferentially binds human Tau and neutralises proteopathic seeding activity in multiple cell lines, and benchmarked it against a clinically tested pan-Tau antibody, HJ8.5 (murine version of tilavonemab). We then evaluated both antibodies, alone and in combination, in the K3 tauopathy mouse model, showing reduced Tau pathology and improvements in neuronal function following 14 weekly treatments, without obtaining synergy for the combination. These effects were more pronounced in female mice. To investigate the molecular mechanisms contributing to improvements in neuronal function, we employed quantitative proteomics, phosphoproteomics and kinase prediction analysis to first establish alterations in K3 mice relative to WT controls at the proteome level. In female K3 mice, we found 342 differentially abundant proteins, which are predominantly involved in metabolic and microtubule-associated processes, strengthening previously reported findings of defects in several functional domains in multiple tauopathy models. We next asked whether antibody-mediated Tau target engagement indirectly affects levels of deregulated proteins in the K3 model. Importantly, both immunotherapies, in particular RNJ1, induced abundance shifts towards a restoration to wild-type levels (proteostasis). A total of 257 of 342 (~75%) proteins altered in K3 were closer in abundance to WT levels after RNJ1 treatment, and 73% after HJ8.5 treatment. However, the magnitude of these changes was less pronounced than that observed with RNJ1, as reflected by a far smaller number of differentially abundant proteins. Furthermore, analysis of the phosphoproteome showed an even stronger restoration effect with RNJ1, with ~82% of altered phosphopeptides in K3 showing a shift to WT levels, and 75% with HJ8.5. Gene set over-representation analysis (ORA) further confirmed that proteins undergoing restoration are involved in biological pathways affected in K3 mice. Together, our study suggests that a Tau immunotherapy-induced restoration of proteostasis links target engagement and treatment efficacy.
PXD050647	39074261	Substrate O-glycosylation actively regulates extracellular proteolysis. 	Protease Regulation by Subtrate O-Glycosylation	degradomics, glycoproteomics	Extracellular proteolysis critically regulates cellular and tissue responses and is often dysregulated in human diseases. The crosstalk between proteolytic processing and other major post-translational modifications (PTMs) is emerging as an important regulatory mechanism to modulate protease activity and maintain cellular and tissue homeostasis. Here, we focus on matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-mediated cleavages and N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc)-type of O-glycosylation, two major PTMs of proteins in the extracellular space. We investigated the influence of truncated O-glycan trees, also referred to as Tn antigen, following the inactivation of C1GALT1-specific chaperone 1 (COSMC) on the general and MMP9-specific proteolytic processing in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. Quantitative assessment of the proteome and N-terminome using terminal amine isotopic labelling of substrates (TAILS) technology revealed enhanced proteolysis by MMP9 within the extracellular proteomes of MDA-MB-231 cells expressing Tn antigen. In addition, we detected substantial modifications in the proteome and discovered novel ectodomain shedding events regulated by the truncation of O-glycans. These results highlight the critical role of mature O-glycosylation in fine-tuning proteolytic processing and proteome homeostasis by modulating protein susceptibility to proteolytic degradation. These data suggest a complex interplay between proteolysis and O-GalNAc glycosylation, possibly affecting cancer phenotypes.
PXD053024	39074544	Verazine Biosynthesis from Simple Sugars in Engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Verazine Biosynthesis from Simple Sugars in Engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Metabolic Engineering, Microbial Biosynthesis, Natural Product, Steroidal Alkaloid, Synthetic Biology, Verazine	Steroidal alkaloids are FDA-approved drugs (e.g., Zytiga) and promising drug candidates/leads (e.g., cyclopamine); yet many of the >= 697 known steroidal alkaloid natural products remain underutilized as drugs because it can be challenging to scale their biosynthesis in their producing organisms. Cyclopamine is a steroidal alkaloid produced by corn lily (Veratrum spp.) plants, and it is an inhibitor of the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway. Therefore, cyclopamine is an important drug candidate/lead to treat human diseases that are associated with dysregulated Hh signaling, such as basal cell carcinoma and acute myeloid leukemia. Cyclopamine and its semi-synthetic derivatives have been studied in (pre)clinical trials as Hh inhibitor-based drugs. However, challenges in scaling the production of cyclopamine have slowed efforts to improve its efficacy and safety profile through (bio)synthetic derivatization, often limiting drug development to synthetic analogs of cyclopamine such as the FDA-approved drugs Odomzo, Daurismo, and Erivedge. If a platform for the scalable and sustainable production of cyclopamine were established, then its (bio)synthetic derivatization, clinical development, and, ultimately, widespread distribution could be accelerated. Ongoing efforts to achieve this goal include the biosynthesis of cyclopamine in Veratrum plant cell culture and the semi-/total chemical synthesis of cyclopamine. Herein, this work advances efforts towards a promising future approach: the biosynthesis of cyclopamine in engineered microorganisms. We completed the heterologous microbial production of verazine (biosynthetic precursor to cyclopamine) from simple sugars (i.e., glucose and galactose) in engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae (S. cerevisiae) through the inducible upregulation of the native yeast mevalonate and lanosterol biosynthetic pathways, diversion of biosynthetic flux from ergosterol (i.e., native sterol in S. cerevisiae) to cholesterol (i.e., biosynthetic precursor to verazine), and expression of a refactored five-step verazine biosynthetic pathway. The engineered S. cerevisiae strain that produced verazine contains eight heterologous enzymes sourced from seven different species. Importantly, S. cerevisiae-produced verazine was indistinguishable via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry from both a commercial standard (Veratrum spp. plant-produced) and Nicotiana benthamiana-produced verazine. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report describing the heterologous production of a steroidal alkaloid in an engineered yeast. Verazine production was ultimately increased through design-build-test-learn cycles to a final titer of 83 +/- 3 mug/L (4.1 +/- 0.1 mug/g DCW). Together, this research lays the groundwork for future microbial biosynthesis of cyclopamine, (bio)synthetic derivatives of cyclopamine, and other steroidal alkaloid natural products.
PXD051433	39075094	Cell fate decision by a morphogen-transcription factor-chromatin modifier axis. 	Cell fate decision by a morphogen-transcription factor-chromatin modifier axis	JGES_D3_BMP4_+_-	Cell fate decisions remain poorly understood at the molecular level. Embryogenesis provides a unique opportunity to analyze molecular details associated with cell fate decisions. Works based on model organisms have provided a conceptual framework of genes that specify cell fate control, for example, transcription factors (TFs) controlling processes from pluripotency to immunity(1). How TFs specify cell fate remains poorly understood. Here we report that SALL4 relies on NuRD (nucleosome-remodeling and deacetylase complex) to interpret BMP4 signal and decide cell fate in a well-controlled in vitro system. While NuRD complex cooperates with SALL4 to convert mouse embryonic fibroblasts or MEFs to pluripotency, BMP4 diverts the same process to an alternative fate, PrE (primitive endoderm). Mechanistically, BMP4 signals the dissociation of SALL4 from NuRD physically to establish a gene regulatory network for PrE. Our results provide a conceptual framework to explore the rich landscapes of cell fate choices intrinsic to development in higher organisms involving morphogen-TF-chromatin modifier pathways.
PXD051457	39075252	Template-assisted covalent modification underlies activity of covalent molecular glues. 	Biotinylated MMH2 pulldown LCMS	molecular glue	Molecular glues are proximity-inducing small molecules that have emerged as an attractive therapeutic approach. However, developing molecular glues remains challenging, requiring innovative mechanistic strategies to stabilize neoprotein interfaces and expedite discovery. Here we unveil a trans-labeling covalent molecular glue mechanism, termed 'template-assisted covalent modification'. We identified a new series of BRD4 molecular glue degraders that recruit CUL4(DCAF16) ligase to the second bromodomain of BRD4 (BRD4BD2). Through comprehensive biochemical, structural and mutagenesis analyses, we elucidated how pre-existing structural complementarity between DCAF16 and BRD4BD2 serves as a template to optimally orient the degrader for covalent modification of DCAF16Cys58. This process stabilizes the formation of BRD4-degrader-DCAF16 ternary complex and facilitates BRD4 degradation. Supporting generalizability, we found that a subset of degraders also induces GAK-BRD4BD2 interaction through trans-labeling of GAK. Together, our work establishes 'template-assisted covalent modification' as a mechanism for covalent molecular glues, which opens a new path to proximity-driven pharmacology.
PXD046781	39075553	From birth to bite: the evolutionary ecology of India's medically most important snake venoms. 	From birth to bite: the evolutionary ecology of India's medically most important snake venoms	Daboia russelii, Naja naja, Thermofisher orbitrap fusion mass spectrometry, ontogeny, snake venom, venom proteomics	BACKGROUND: Snake venoms can exhibit remarkable inter- and intraspecific variation. While diverse ecological and environmental factors are theorised to explain this variation, only a handful of studies have attempted to unravel their precise roles. This knowledge gap not only impedes our understanding of venom evolution but may also have dire consequences on snakebite treatment. To address this shortcoming, we investigated the evolutionary ecology of venoms of Russell's viper (Daboia russelii) and spectacled cobra (Naja naja), India's two clinically most important snakes responsible for an alarming number of human deaths and disabilities. METHODOLOGY: Several individuals (n = 226) of D. russelii and N. naja belonging to multiple clutches (n = 9) and their mothers were maintained in captivity to source ontogenetic stage-specific venoms. Using various in vitro and in vivo assays, we assessed the significance of prey, ontogeny and sex in driving venom composition, function, and potency. RESULTS: Considerable ontogenetic shifts in venom profiles were observed in D. russelii, with the venoms of newborns being many times as potent as juveniles and adults against mammalian (2.3-2.5 x) and reptilian (2-10 x) prey. This is the first documentation of the ontogenetic shift in viperine snakes. In stark contrast, N. naja, which shares a biogeographic distribution similar to D. russelii, deployed identical biochemical cocktails across development. Furthermore, the binding kinetics of cobra venom toxins against synthetic target receptors from various prey and predators shed light on the evolutionary arms race. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings, therefore, provide fascinating insights into the roles of ecology and life history traits in shaping snake venoms.
PXD048323	39075581	IGF1R signaling induces epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity via ITGAV in cutaneous carcinoma. 	IGF1R signaling primes epithelial cancer cells to induce epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity by upregulating integrin alphaV in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma	EMP, IGF1R, ITGAV, cSCC, cancer cell plasticity, prognostic biomarker, tumor relapse	BACKGROUND: Early cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (cSCCs) generally show epithelial differentiation features and good prognosis, whereas advanced cSCCs present mesenchymal traits associated with tumor relapse, metastasis, and poor survival. Currently, the mechanisms involved in cSCC progression are unclear, and the established markers are suboptimal for accurately predicting the clinical course of the disease. METHODS: Using a mouse model of cSCC progression, expression microarray analysis, immunofluorescence and flow cytometry assays, we have identified a prognostic biomarker of tumor relapse, which has been evaluated in a cohort of cSCC patient samples. Phosphoproteomic analysis have revealed signaling pathways induced in epithelial plastic cancer cells that promote epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity (EMP) and tumor progression. These pathways have been validated by genetic and pharmacological inhibition assays. RESULTS: We show that the emergence of epithelial cancer cells expressing integrin alphaV (ITGAV) promotes cSCC progression to a mesenchymal state. Consistently, ITGAV expression allows the identification of patients at risk of cSCC relapse above the currently employed clinical histopathological parameters. We also demonstrate that activation of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF1R) pathway in epithelial cancer cells is necessary to induce EMP and mesenchymal state acquisition in response to tumor microenvironment-derived factors, while promoting ITGAV expression. Likewise, ITGAV knockdown in epithelial plastic cancer cells also blocks EMP acquisition, generating epithelial tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that ITGAV is a prognostic biomarker of relapse in cSCCs that would allow improved patient stratification. ITGAV also collaborates with IGF1R to induce EMP in epithelial cancer cells and promotes cSCC progression, revealing a potential therapeutic strategy to block the generation of advanced mesenchymal cSCCs.
PXD052544	39075986	Falcon Probe: A High-Pressure and Robust Sampling Interface for Coupling Lossless Liquid Chromatography Injection with In Situ Nanoliter-Scale Sample Pretreatment. 	Falcon Probe: A High-Pressure and Robust Sampling Interface for Coupling Lossless Liquid Chromatography Injection with In-Situ Nanoliter-Scale Sample Pretreatment	in-situ sampling, micro-amount injection, single-cell proteomics	With the increasing demand for trace sample analysis, injecting trace samples into liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) systems with minimal loss has become a major challenge. Herein, we describe an in situ LC-MS analytical probe, the Falcon probe, which integrates multiple functions of high-pressure sample injection without sample loss, high-efficiency LC separation, and electrospray. The main body of the Falcon probe is made of stainless steel and fabricated by the computer numerical control (CNC) technique, which has ultrahigh mechanical strength. By coupling a nanoliter-scale droplet reactor made of polyether ether ketone (PEEK) material, the Falcon probe-based LC-MS system was capable of operating at mobile-phase pressures up to 800 bar, which is comparable to those of conventional ultraperformance liquid chromatography (UPLC) systems. Using the probe pressing microamount in situ (PPMI) injection approach, the Falcon probe-based LC-MS system showed high separation efficiency and good repeatability with relative standard deviations (RSDs) of retention time and peak area of 1.8% and 9.9%, respectively, in peptide mixture analysis (n = 6). We applied this system to the analysis of a trace amount of 200 pg of HeLa protein digest and successfully identified an average of 766 protein groups (n = 5). By combining in situ sample pretreatment at the nanoliter range, we further applied the present system in single-cell proteomic analysis, and 241 protein groups were identified in single 293 cells, which preliminarily demonstrated its potential in the analysis of trace amounts of samples with complex compositions.
PXD046373	39078204	Enabling Population Protein Dynamics Through Bayesian Modeling. 	Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino acid in Vivo (SILAV)	Protein turnover, SILK	MOTIVATION: The knowledge of protein dynamics, or turnover, in patients provides invaluable information related to certain diseases, drug efficacy, or biological processes. A great corpus of experimental and computational methods has been developed, including by us, in the case of human patients followed in vivo. Moving one step further, we propose a novel modeling approach to capture population protein dynamics using Bayesian methods. RESULTS: Using two datasets, we demonstrate that models inspired by population pharmacokinetics can accurately capture protein turnover within a cohort and account for inter-individual variability. Such models pave the way for comparative studies searching for altered dynamics or biomarkers in diseases. AVAILABILITY: R code and preprocessed data are available from zenodo.org. Raw data are available from panoramaweb.org. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD053465	39078454	Improved multi-food allergen analysis of processed foods using HRAM-LC-MS/MS with an ELISA-validated extraction solution and MS sample prep kit. 	Allergen marker discovery and quantification	allergen, food	Food allergens in processed foods are affected by heating, processing, and the food matrix. To conduct highly reliable tests, extracting allergens into test solutions is necessary for appropriate detection. In addition to the commonly used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), which has the advantage of simultaneously detecting multiple allergens in foods, is being increasingly used. When managing food allergens at food manufacturing sites, obtaining the same measured values is desirable, regardless of the analytical method used. Therefore, in this study, we focused on the importance of pretreatment steps for LC-MS when examining food allergens in processed foods, which can be difficult to analyze. The ELISA method uses food extracts optimized for analyzing allergens in processed foods. We developed a high-resolution accurate mass spectrometry (HRAM)-LC-MS/MS method using the same food extract used in the ELISA method and an MS sample preparation kit. Multiple food allergen analysis was performed using 1, 5, 10, and 20 ppm of allergen-incurred processed foods. Overall, a strong correlation was observed between the measured values of HRAM-LC-MS/MS and ELISA, demonstrating the applicability of multi-allergen analysis using LC-MS.
PXD052845	39078711	Lysosomal-Associated Protein Transmembrane 5, Tubular Senescence, and Progression of CKD. 	Lysosomal-associated protein transmembrane 5, tubular senescence, and progression of CKD	cell senescence, chronic kidney disease, tubular cells	BACKGROUND: Tubular senescence is a major determinant of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and identification of potential therapeutic targets involved in senescent tubular epithelial cells has clinical importance. Lysosomal-associated protein transmembrane 5 (LAPTM5) is a key molecule related to T and B cell receptor expression and inflammation. However, the expression pattern of LAPTM5 in the kidney and the contribution of LAPTM5 to the development of CKD keep unknown. METHODS: LAPTM5-/- mice and tubule specific-LAPTM5 knockout mice were used to examine the role of LAPTM5 in tubular senescence by establishing different experimental mouse CKD models. RESULTS: LAPTM5 expression was significantly induced in the kidney, especially in proximal tubules and distal convoluted tubules, from mice with aristolochic acid nephropathy, bilateral ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI)-induced CKD or unilateral ureter obstruction (UUO). Tubule-specific deletion of LAPTM5 inhibited senescence of tubular epithelial cells and alleviated tubulointerstitial fibrosis in aged mice. Moreover, LAPTM5 deficiency ameliorated kidney injury and tubular senescence in mice with CKD. Mechanistically, LAPTM5 inhibited ubiquitination of NICD1 by mediating WWP2 lysosomal degradation, then leading to cellular senescence in tubular epithelial cells. Notably, we also observed a higher expression of LAPTM5 in tubules from individuals with CKD and the level of LAPTM5 was correlated with kidney fibrosis and tubular senescence in people with CKD. CONCLUSIONS: LAPTM5 contributed to tubular senescence by regulating WWP2/NICD1 signaling pathway and exacerbated kidney injury during the progression of CKD.
PXD050987	39079039	FAS Inhibited Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Profiling of Colorectal Cancer Spheroids Shows Activation of Ferroptotic Death Mechanism. 	FAS Inhibited Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Profiling of Colorectal Cancer Spheroids shows Activation of Ferroptotic Death Mechanism	Cancer, Colorectal Cancer, Data-Independent Acquisition, Phosphoproteomics, Spheroids	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is projected to become the third most diagnosed and third most fatal cancer in the United States by 2024, with early onset CRC on the rise. Research is constantly underway to discover novel therapeutics for the treatment of various cancers to improve patient outcomes and survival. Fatty acid synthase (FAS) has become a druggable target of interest for the treatment of many different cancers. One such inhibitor, TVB-2640, has gained popularity for its high specificity for FAS and has entered a phase 1 clinical trial for the treatment of solid tumors. However, the distinct molecular differences that occur upon inhibition of FAS have yet to be understood. Here, we conduct proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses on HCT 116 and HT-29 CRC spheroids inhibited with either a generation 1 (cerulenin) or generation 2 (TVB-2640) FAS inhibitor. Proteins involved in lipid metabolism and cellular respiration were altered in abundance. It was also observed that proteins involved in ferroptosis-an iron mediated form of cell death-were altered. These results show that HT-29 spheroids exposed to cerulenin or TVB-2640 are undergoing a ferroptotic death mechanism. The data were deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE repository with the identifier PXD050987.
PXD049149	39079947	Single-electron transfer between sulfonium and tryptophan enables site-selective photo crosslinking of methyllysine reader proteins. 	Site-selective photo crosslink to methyllysine readers via single electron transfer between sulfonium and tryptophan	methyllysine, photo-crosslink, readers sulfonium	The identification of readers, an important class of proteins that recognize modified residues at specific sites, is essential to uncover the biological roles of post-translational modifications. Photoreactive crosslinkers are powerful tools for investigating readers. However, existing methods usually employ synthetically challenging photoreactive warheads, and their high-energy intermediates generated upon irradiation, such as nitrene and carbene, may cause substantial non-specific crosslinking. Here we report dimethylsulfonium as a methyllysine mimic that binds to specific readers and subsequently crosslinks to a conserved tryptophan inside the binding pocket through single-electron transfer under ultraviolet irradiation. The crosslinking relies on a protein-templated sigma-pi electron donor-acceptor interaction between sulfonium and indole, ensuring excellent site selectivity for tryptophan in the active site and orthogonality to other methyllysine readers. This method could escalate the discovery of methyllysine readers from complex cell samples. Furthermore, this photo crosslinking strategy could be extended to develop other types of microenvironment-dependent conjugations to site-specific tryptophan.
PXD047606	39080329	A novel integrated extraction protocol for multi-omic studies in heavily degraded samples. 	A novel integrated extraction protocol for multi-omic studies in heavily degraded samples	ancient DNA, degraded omics, extraction protocol, integrated protocol, multi-omics, pig brain	The combination of multi-omic techniques, such as genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics and epigenomics, has revolutionised studies in medical research. These techniques are employed to support biomarker discovery, better understand molecular pathways and identify novel drug targets. Despite concerted efforts in integrating omic datasets, there is an absence of protocols that integrate all four biomolecules in a single extraction process. Here, we demonstrate for the first time a minimally destructive integrated protocol for the simultaneous extraction of artificially degraded DNA, proteins, lipids and metabolites from pig brain samples. We used an MTBE-based approach to separate lipids and metabolites, followed by subsequent isolation of DNA and proteins. We have validated this protocol against standalone extraction protocols and show comparable or higher yields of all four biomolecules. This integrated protocol is key to facilitating the preservation of irreplaceable samples while promoting downstream analyses and successful data integration by removing bias from univariate dataset noise and varied distribution characteristics.
PXD053068	39080411	mTORC2-driven chromatin cGAS mediates chemoresistance through epigenetic reprogramming in colorectal cancer. 	mTORC2-driven chromatin cGAS mediates chemoresistance in colorectal cancer	KGA, chemoresistance, chromatin cGAS, mTORC2, phosphorylation	Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), a cytosolic DNA sensor that initiates a STING-dependent innate immune response, binds tightly to chromatin, where its catalytic activity is inhibited; however, mechanisms underlying cGAS recruitment to chromatin and functions of chromatin-bound cGAS (ccGAS) remain unclear. Here we show that mTORC2-mediated phosphorylation of human cGAS serine 37 promotes its chromatin localization in colorectal cancer cells, regulating cell growth and drug resistance independently of STING. We discovered that ccGAS recruits the SWI/SNF complex at specific chromatin regions, modifying expression of genes linked to glutaminolysis and DNA replication. Although ccGAS depletion inhibited cell growth, it induced chemoresistance to fluorouracil treatment in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, blocking kidney-type glutaminase, a downstream ccGAS target, overcame chemoresistance caused by ccGAS loss. Thus, ccGAS coordinates colorectal cancer plasticity and acquired chemoresistance through epigenetic patterning. Targeting both mTORC2-ccGAS and glutaminase provides a promising strategy to eliminate quiescent resistant cancer cells.
PXD053372	39080493	The ASC inflammasome adapter governs SAA-derived protein aggregation in inflammatory amyloidosis. 	ASC and SAA protein interaction profiling by limited proteolysis coupled to mass spectrometry	ASC, LiP-MS, SAA, inflamation	Extracellularly released molecular inflammasome assemblies -ASC specks- cross-seed Abeta amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. Here we show that ASC governs the extent of inflammation-induced amyloid A (AA) amyloidosis, a systemic disease caused by the aggregation and peripheral deposition of the acute-phase reactant serum amyloid A (SAA) in chronic inflammatory conditions. Using super-resolution microscopy, we found that ASC colocalized tightly with SAA in human AA amyloidosis. Recombinant ASC specks accelerated SAA fibril formation and mass spectrometry after limited proteolysis showed that ASC interacts with SAA via its pyrin domain (PYD). In a murine model of inflammatory AA amyloidosis, splenic amyloid load was conspicuously decreased in Pycard(-/-) mice which lack ASC. Treatment with anti-ASC(PYD) antibodies decreased amyloid loads in wild-type mice suffering from AA amyloidosis. The prevalence of natural anti-ASC IgG (-logEC50 >= 2) in 19,334 hospital patients was <0.01%, suggesting that anti-ASC antibody treatment modalities would not be confounded by natural autoimmunity. These findings expand the role played by ASC and IL-1 independent inflammasome employments to extraneural proteinopathies and suggest that anti-ASC immunotherapy may contribute to resolving such diseases.
PXD050242	39081042	Proteolytic activity of surface-exposed HtrA determines its expression level and is needed to survive acidic conditions in Clostridioides difficile. 	Proteolytic activity of surface exposed HtrA determines its expression level and is needed to survive acidic conditions in Clostridioides difficile	Clostridioides difficile, HtrA, PDZ domain, Protease, acid stress, dimethyl labeling, gene regulation, surface proteins	To survive in the host, pathogenic bacteria need to be able to react to the unfavorable conditions that they encounter, like low pH, elevated temperatures, antimicrobial peptides and many more. These conditions may lead to unfolding of envelope proteins and this may be lethal. One of the mechanisms through which bacteria are able to survive these conditions is through the protease/foldase activity of the high temperature requirement A (HtrA) protein. The gut pathogen Clostridioides difficile encodes one HtrA homolog that is predicted to contain a membrane anchor and a single PDZ domain. The function of HtrA in C. difficile is hitherto unknown but previous work has shown that an insertional mutant of htrA displayed elevated toxin levels, less sporulation and decreased binding to target cells. Here, we show that HtrA is membrane associated and localized on the surface of C. difficile and characterize the requirements for proteolytic activity of recombinant soluble HtrA. In addition, we show that the level of HtrA in the bacteria heavily depends on its proteolytic activity. Finally, we show that proteolytic activity of HtrA is required for survival under acidic conditions.
PXD052935	39081146	Generating cysteine-trypsin cleavage sites with 2-chloroacetamidine capping. 	Cysteine capping with CAM reagent	CAM, aminoethylation, cysteine capping	An electrophilic arginine mimetic, 2-chloroacetamidine (CAM), was deployed to enable trypsin-mediated proteolysis at cysteine residues and to enhance mass spectrometry-based proteomic detection of cysteine-containing peptides. Illustrating the value of the CAM-capping strategy, proteogenomic analysis using a two-stage false discovery rate (FDR) search revealed >50% enhanced coverage of missense variants, when compared to established workflows.
PXD046360	39081243	Changes in the tumour microenvironment mark the transition from serous borderline tumour to low-grade serous carcinoma. 	Changes in the tumor microenvironment mark transition from serous borderline tumor to low grade serous carcinoma	TMT, ovarian cancer, serous borderline tumor	Low-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (LGSC) is a rare and lethal subtype of ovarian cancer. LGSC is pathologically, biologically, and clinically distinct from the more common high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC). LGSC arises from serous borderline ovarian tumours (SBTs). The mechanism of transformation for SBTs to LGSC remains poorly understood. To better understand the biology of LGSC, we performed whole proteome profiling of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of LGSC (n = 11), HGSC (n = 19), and SBTs (n = 26). We identified that the whole proteome is able to distinguish between histotypes of the ovarian epithelial tumours. Proteins associated with the tumour microenvironment were differentially expressed between LGSC and SBTs. Fibroblast activation protein (FAP), a protein expressed in cancer-associated fibroblasts, is the most differentially abundant protein in LGSC compared with SBT. Multiplex immunohistochemistry (IHC) for immune markers (CD20, CD79a, CD3, CD8, and CD68) was performed to determine the presence of B cells, T cells, and macrophages. The LGSC FAP(+) stroma was associated with greater abundance of Tregs and M2 macrophages, features not present in SBTs. Our proteomics cohort reveals that there are changes in the tumour microenvironment in LGSC compared with its putative precursor lesion, SBT. These changes suggest that the tumour microenvironment provides a supportive environment for LGSC tumourigenesis and progression. Thus, targeting the tumour microenvironment of LGSC may be a viable therapeutic strategy. (c) 2024 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD044786	39081261	Evolution of the genetic code in the Ascoideales (CUG-Ser2) yeast clade: The ancestral tRNA-Leu(CAG) gene is retained in most Saccharomycopsis species but is non-essential and not used for translation. 	tRNA-Leu(CAG) gene is conserved in most Saccharomycopsis yeast species but is non-essential and does not compete with tRNA-Ser(CAG) in translation Dataset 6B; S. capsularis CBS7262 Sporulation	Eukaryote genome evolution, Saccharomycopsis	In the yeast genera Saccharomycopsis and Ascoidea, which comprise the taxonomic order Ascoideales, nuclear genes use a non-standard genetic code in which CUG codons are translated as serine instead of leucine, due to a tRNA-Ser with the unusual anticodon CAG. However, some species in this clade also retain an ancestral tRNA-Leu gene with the same anticodon. One of these species, Ascoidea asiatica, has been shown to have a stochastic proteome in which proteins contain approximately 50% Ser and 50% Leu at CUG codon sites, whereas previously examined Saccharomycopsis species translate CUG only as Ser. Here, we investigated the presence, conservation, and possible functionality of the tRNA-Leu(CAG) gene in the genus Saccharomycopsis. We sequenced the genomes of 23 strains which, together with previously available data, include almost every known species of this genus. We found that most Saccharomycopsis species have genes for both tRNA-Leu(CAG) and tRNA-Ser(CAG). However, tRNA-Leu(CAG) has been lost in S. synnaedendra and S. microspora, and its predicted cloverleaf structure is aberrant in all the other Saccharomycopsis species. We deleted the tRNA-Leu(CAG) gene of S. capsularis and found that it is not essential. Proteomic analyses in vegetative and sporulating cultures of S. capsularis and S. fermentans showed only translation of CUG as Ser. Despite its unusual structure, the tRNA-Leu(CAG) gene shows evidence of sequence conservation among Saccharomycopsis species, particularly in its acceptor stem and leucine identity elements, which suggests that it may have been retained in order to carry out an unknown non-translational function.
PXD053311	39081292	Targeted dephosphorylation of TFEB promotes its nuclear translocation. 	Targeted dephosphorylation of TFEB promotes its nuclear translocation	AdPhosphotase, BDPIC, PHOSTAC, PPP2CA, TFEB, dephosphorylation	Reversible phosphorylation of the transcription factor EB (TFEB) coordinates cellular responses to metabolic and other stresses. During nutrient replete and stressor-free conditions, phosphorylated TFEB is primarily localized to the cytoplasm. Stressor-mediated reduction of TFEB phosphorylation promotes its nuclear translocation and context-dependent transcriptional activity. In this study, we explored targeted dephosphorylation of TFEB as an approach to activate TFEB in the absence of nutrient deprivation or other cellular stress. Through an induction of proximity between TFEB and several phosphatases using the AdPhosphatase system, we demonstrate targeted dephosphorylation of TFEB in cells. Furthermore, by developing a heterobifunctional molecule BDPIC (bromoTAG-dTAG proximity-inducing chimera), we demonstrate targeted dephosphorylation of TFEB-dTAG through induced proximity to bromoTAG-PPP2CA. Targeted dephosphorylation of TFEB-dTAG by bromoTAG-PPP2CA with BDPIC at the endogenous levels is sufficient to induce nuclear translocation and some transcriptional activity of TFEB.
PXD051009	39081798	Characterization of protein glycosylation in an Asgard archaeon. 	Whole-cell proteome of Pyrodictium abyssi strain AV2	archaea, whole-cell proteome	Archaeal cells are typically enveloped by glycosylated S-layer proteins. Archaeal protein glycosylation provides valuable insights not only into their adaptation to their niches but also into their evolutionary trajectory. Notably, thermophilic Thermoproteota modify proteins with N-glycans that include two GlcNAc units at the reducing end, resembling the "core structure" preserved across eukaryotes. Recently, Asgard archaea, now classified as members of the phylum Promethearchaeota, have offered unprecedented opportunities for understanding the role of archaea in eukaryogenesis. Despite the presence of genes indicative of protein N-glycosylation in this archaeal group, these have not been experimentally investigated. Here we performed a glycoproteome analysis of the firstly isolated Asgard archaeon Promethearchaeum syntrophicum. Over 700 different proteins were identified through high-resolution LC-MS/MS analysis, however, there was no evidence of either the presence or glycosylation of putative S-layer proteins. Instead, N-glycosylation in this archaeon was primarily observed in an extracellular solute-binding protein, possibly related to chemoreception or transmembrane transport of oligopeptides. The glycan modification occurred on an asparagine residue located within the conserved N-X-S/T sequon, consistent with the pattern found in other archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotes. Unexpectedly, three structurally different N-glycans lacking the conventional core structure were identified in this archaeon, presenting unique compositions that included atypical sugars. Notably, one of these sugars was likely HexNAc modified with a threonine residue, similar to modifications previously observed in mesophilic methanogens within the Methanobacteriati. Our findings advance our understanding of Asgard archaea physiology and evolutionary dynamics.
PXD045743	39083619	Nitrogen fixation in the widely distributed marine gamma-proteobacterial diazotroph Candidatus Thalassolituus haligoni. 	Nitrogen-fixation in the widely distributed model marine gamma-proteobacterial diazotroph Candidatus Thalassolituus haligoni	Candidatus Thalassolituus haligoni, Nitrogen-fixation, diazotroph	The high diversity and global distribution of heterotrophic bacterial diazotrophs (HBDs) in the ocean has recently become apparent. However, understanding the role these largely uncultured microorganisms play in marine N2 fixation poses a challenge due to their undefined growth requirements and the complex regulation of the nitrogenase enzyme. We isolated and characterized Candidatus Thalassolituus haligoni, a member of a widely distributed clade of HBD belonging to the Oceanospirillales. Analysis of its nifH gene via amplicon sequencing revealed the extensive distribution of Cand. T. haligoni across the Pacific, Atlantic, and Arctic Oceans. Pangenome analysis indicates that the isolate shares >99% identity with an uncultured metagenome-assembled genome called Arc-Gamma-03, recently recovered from the Arctic Ocean. Through combined genomic, proteomic, and physiological approaches, we confirmed that the isolate fixes N2 gas. However, the mechanisms governing nitrogenase regulation in Cand. T. haligoni remain unclear. We propose Cand. T. haligoni as a globally distributed, cultured HBD model species within this understudied clade of Oceanospirillales.
PXD050318	39084562	Universal Identification of Pathogenic Viruses by liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry Proteotyping. 	Untargeted virus identification via LC-MS/MS based proteotyping	Virus, proteotyping	Accurate and rapid identification of viruses is crucial for an effective medical diagnosis when dealing with infections. Conventional methods, including DNA amplification techniques or lateral-flow assays, are constrained to a specific set of targets to search for. In this study, we introduce a novel tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping-based method that offers a universal approach for the identification of pathogenic viruses and other components, eliminating the need for a priori knowledge of the sample composition. Our protocol relies on a time and cost-efficient peptide sample preparation, followed by an analysis with liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry. As a proof of concept, we first assessed our method on publicly available shotgun proteomics datasets obtained from virus preparations and fecal samples of infected individuals. Successful virus identification was achieved with 53 public datasets, spanning 23 distinct viral species. Furthermore, we illustrated the method's capability to discriminate closely related viruses within the same sample, using alphaviruses as an example. The clinical applicability of our method was demonstrated by the accurate detection of the vaccinia virus in spiked saliva, a matrix of paramount clinical significance due to its non-invasive and easily obtainable nature. This innovative approach represents a significant advancement in pathogen detection and paves the way for enhanced diagnostic capabilities.
PXD048338	39084571	The effect of the production system on the proteomics profiles of the Longissimus thoracis muscle in Arouquesa cattle. 	The effect of the production system on the proteomics profiles of the Longissimus thoracis muscle in Arouquesa cattle	Autochthonous beef breeds, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, beef quality, differentially abundant proteins, environmental sustainability, shotgun proteomics	Arouquesa breed is an autochthonous Portuguese breed produced under a traditional mountain system that need improvement without affecting beef quality. The aim of this work is to compare the proteomics profiles from the Longissimus thoracis muscle from Arouquesa animals produced under different systems. Sixty weaners were produced under the following systems: traditional (TF) and traditional with starter feed supplementation (TF + S1) with weaning and slaughtering at 9 months, the S1 + S2 (weaning at 5 months and grower supplement until slaughter) and two rearing periods with finishing supplementation (TF + S3 and S3). Upon slaughter, samples of L. thoracis were taken and analyzed using a shotgun proteomics workflow. Several putative markers of beef quality for the Arouquesa breed were identified: VIM, FSCN1, SERPINH1, ALDH1A1, NDUFB5, ANXA1, PDK4, CEMIP2, NDUFB9, PDLIM1, OXCT1, MYH4. These proteins are involved in actin binding, skeletal muscle development and in the mitochondrial respiratory chain and they can influence mostly meat tenderness and color. We identified specific proteins for each group related to different metabolisms involved in several aspects that affect meat quality parameters. Our results demonstrate the link between production practices and putative meat characteristics, which have the potential to improve the traceability of certified products. SIGNIFICANCE: Arouquesa breed is produced in a sustainable system using natural resources and contributing to the economy of low-populated rural regions in Northern Portugal. Besides their economic relevance, producing autochthonous breeds can counter rural depopulation and maintain local heritage. Additionally, consumer awareness about product quality is increasing and PDO products contribute to satisfying this demand. However, it is necessary to increase production so that it is possible to sell these products outside the production region. To ensure robust traceability and that PDO label characteristics are maintained despite increasing production yield, product analysis is of paramount importance. For this reason, proteomic approaches can provide insight into how production changes will affect beef quality and generate putative biomarkers of certified production systems.
PXD051677	39085321	Exploring protein relative relations in skeletal muscle proteomic analysis for insights into insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. 	Exploring Protein Relative Relations in Skeletal Muscle Proteomic Analysis for Insights into Insulin Resistance and Type 2 Diabetes	DIA analysis, insulin resistance, mixed mode exercise, skeletal muscle, type 2 diabetes	The escalating prevalence of insulin resistance (IR) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) underscores the urgent need for improved early detection techniques and effective treatment strategies. In this context, our study presents a proteomic analysis of post-exercise skeletal muscle biopsies from individuals across a spectrum of glucose metabolism states: normal, prediabetes, and T2D. This enabled the identification of significant protein relationships indicative of each specific glycemic condition. Our investigation primarily leveraged the machine learning approach, employing the white-box algorithm relative evolutionary hierarchical analysis (REHA), to explore the impact of regulated, mixed mode exercise on skeletal muscle proteome in subjects with diverse glycemic status. This method aimed to advance the diagnosis of IR and T2D and elucidate the molecular pathways involved in its development and the response to exercise. Additionally, we used proteomics-specific statistical analysis to provide a comparative perspective, highlighting the nuanced differences identified by REHA. Validation of the REHA model with a comparable external dataset further demonstrated its efficacy in distinguishing between diverse proteomic profiles. Key metrics such as accuracy and the area under the ROC curve confirmed REHA's capability to uncover novel molecular pathways and significant protein interactions, offering fresh insights into the effects of exercise on IR and T2D pathophysiology of skeletal muscle. The visualizations not only underscored significant proteins and their interactions but also showcased decision trees that effectively differentiate between various glycemic states, thereby enhancing our understanding of the biomolecular landscape of T2D.
PXD052170	39085328	Cryoprotectant-specific alterations in the proteome of Siberian sturgeon spermatozoa induced by cryopreservation. 	Loss of fertilizing ability of sturgeon spermatozoa cryopreserved with the use of DMSO is not related to impairment of sperm motility but alteration of proteins involved in acrosome reaction, egg recognition and early stages of embryo development	Acipenser baerii, cryopreservation, extracellular medium, semen	Cryopreservation is crucial for conserving genetic diversity in endangered species including the critically endangered group of sturgeons (Acipenseridae), but it can compromise sperm quality and protein profiles. Although cryopreservation with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and methanol (MeOH) results in the recovery of good post-thaw motility, DMSO-preserved sperm show reduced fertilization ability. This study was conducted in Siberian sturgeon as a model for Acipenserid fishes to explore the effects of DMSO and MeOH on the proteome of semen using advanced proteomics methods-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis. We analyzed the proteomic profiles of fresh and cryopreserved spermatozoa and their extracellular medium and showed that cryopreservation decreases motility and viability and increases reactive oxygen species levels, membrane fluidity, and acrosome damage. Despite having similar post-thaw semen motility, sperm treated with DMSO had significantly lower fertilization success (6.2%) than those treated with MeOH (51.2%). A total of 224 and 118 differentially abundant proteins were identified in spermatozoa preserved with MeOH and DMSO, respectively. MeOH-related proteins were linked to chromosomal structure and mitochondrial functionality, while DMSO-related proteins impacted fertilization by altering the acrosome reaction and binding of sperm to the zona pellucida and nuclear organization. Additionally, cryopreservation led to alterations in the proacrosin/acrosin system in both cryoprotectants. This study provides the first comprehensive proteomic characterization of Siberian sturgeon sperm after cryopreservation, offering insights into how cryoprotectants impact fertilization ability.
PXD048170	39085609	Histone serotonylation regulates ependymoma tumorigenesis. 	Histone serotonylation regulates ependymoma tumorigenesis through neurodevelopmental pathways	ZFTA-RELA ependymoma, cancer neuroscience, developmental transcription factor, epigenetic regulation	Bidirectional communication between tumours and neurons has emerged as a key facet of the tumour microenvironment that drives malignancy(1,2). Another hallmark feature of cancer is epigenomic dysregulation, in which alterations in gene expression influence cell states and interactions with the tumour microenvironment(3). Ependymoma (EPN) is a paediatric brain tumour that relies on epigenomic remodelling to engender malignancy(4,5); however, how these epigenetic mechanisms intersect with extrinsic neuronal signalling during EPN tumour progression is unknown. Here we show that the activity of serotonergic neurons regulates EPN tumorigenesis, and that serotonin itself also serves as an activating modification on histones. We found that inhibiting histone serotonylation blocks EPN tumorigenesis and regulates the expression of a core set of developmental transcription factors. High-throughput, in vivo screening of these transcription factors revealed that ETV5 promotes EPN tumorigenesis and functions by enhancing repressive chromatin states. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one of the genes repressed by ETV5, and its overexpression suppresses EPN tumour progression and tumour-associated network hyperactivity through synaptic remodelling. Collectively, this study identifies histone serotonylation as a key driver of EPN tumorigenesis, and also reveals how neuronal signalling, neuro-epigenomics and developmental programs are intertwined to drive malignancy in brain cancer.
PXD039655	39086482	Quantitative proteomics reveals significant variation in host responses of cattle with differing buffalo fly susceptibility. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals significant variation in host responses of cattle with differing buffalo fly susceptibility	Buffalo fly, Cattel, SWATH, immune response	Background: Control of buffalo flies (Haematobia irritans exigua, BFs) relies mainly on chemical methods; however, resistance to insecticides is widespread in BF populations. Breeding for resistance to BFs represents a possible alternative, but direct phenotyping of animals is laborious and often inaccurate. The availability of reliable diagnostic biomarker(s) to identify low BF carrier cattle would facilitate rapid and accurate selection for genetic improvement. However, limited information is available regarding differences amongst cattle in host responses to BF infestation. Methods: This study investigated the variation in Brangus cattle serum proteomic profiles before (naive) and after peak BF exposure, in low (LF) and high BF burden (HF) cattle. Cattle were phenotyped for susceptibility based on BF counts on multiple dates using visual and photographic techniques. The relative abundance of serum proteins in cattle before and after exposure to BFs was analysed using sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS). Results: Exposure to BFs elicited similar responses in HF and LF cattle, with 79 and 70 proteins, respectively, showing significantly different abundances post exposure as compared to their relevant naive groups. The comparison of serum samples from naive HF and LF cattle identified 44 significantly differentially abundant (DA) proteins, while 37 significantly DA proteins were identified from the comparison between HF and LF cattle post-exposure to BFs. Proteins with higher abundance in naive LF cattle were enriched in blood coagulation mechanisms that were sustained after exposure to BFs. Strong immune response mechanisms were also identified in naive LF cattle, whereas these responses developed in HF cattle only after exposure to BF. High BF cattle also showed active anticoagulation mechanisms in response to BF exposure, including downregulation of coagulation factor IX and upregulation of antithrombin-III, which might facilitate BF feeding. Conclusion: Underlying differences in the abundance of proteins related to blood coagulation and immune response pathways could potentially provide indirect indicators of susceptibility to BF infestation and biomarkers for selecting more BF-resistant cattle.
PXD053826	39086760	What are the main proteins in the hemolymph of Haemaphysalis flava ticks? 	Proteomic of  the main proteins of hemolymph in haemaphysalis flava	haemaphysalis flava	Background: Haemaphysalis flava is a notorious parasite for humans and animals worldwide. The organs of H. flava are bathed in hemolymph, which is a freely circulating fluid. Nutrients, immune factors, and waste can be transported to any part of the body via hemolymph. The main soluble components in hemolymph are proteins. However, knowledge of the H. flava proteome is limited. Methods: The hemolymph was collected from fully engorged H. flava ticks by leg amputation. Hemolymph proteins were examined by both blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) and sodium dodecyl sulfate PAGE (SDS-PAGE). Proteins extracted from the gels were further identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Results: Two bands (380 and 520 kDa) were separated from tick hemolymph by BN-PAGE and were further separated into four bands (105, 120, 130, and 360 kDa) by SDS-PAGE. LC-MS/MS revealed that seven tick proteins and 13 host proteins were present in the four bands. These tick proteins mainly belonged to the vitellogenin (Vg) family and the alpha-macroglobulin family members. In silico structural analysis showed that these Vg family members all had common conserved domains, including the N-terminus lipid binding domain (LPD-N), the C-terminus von Willebrand type D domain (vWD), and the domain of unknown function (DUF). Additionally, two of the Vg family proteins were determined to belong to the carrier protein (CP) by analyzing the unique N-terminal amino acid sequences and the cleaving sites. Conclusion: These findings suggest that the Vg family proteins and alpha-macroglobulin are the primary constituents of the hemolymph in the form of protein complexes. Our results provide a valuable resource for further functional investigations of H. flava hemolymph effectors and may be useful in tick management.
PXD053209	39088653	Structural insights into the human NuA4/TIP60 acetyltransferase and chromatin remodeling complex. 	Unique structural features of the human NuA4/TIP60 acetyltransferase and chromatin remodeling complex	H2A.Z, NuA4 and SWR1 chromatin modifier and remodeler complexes, NuA4/TIP60 acetyltransferase, P400-NCP complex	The human NuA4/TIP60 co-activator complex, a fusion of the yeast SWR1 and NuA4 complexes, both incorporates the histone variant H2A.Z into nucleosomes and acetylates histones H4/H2A/H2A.Z to regulate gene expression and maintain genome stability. Our cryo-electron microscopy studies show that, within the NuA4/TIP60 complex, the EP400 subunit serves as a scaffold holding the different functional modules in specific positions, creating a unique arrangement of the ARP module. EP400 interacts with the TRRAP subunit using a footprint that overlaps with that of the SAGA acetyltransferase complex, preventing the formation of a hybrid complex. Loss of the TRRAP subunit leads to mislocalization of NuA4/TIP60, resulting in the redistribution of H2A.Z and its acetylation across the genome, emphasizing the dual functionality of NuA4/TIP60 as a single macromolecular assembly.
PXD044876	39089252	Molecular mechanism of distinct chemokine engagement and functional divergence of the human Duffy antigen receptor. 	Molecular mechanism of distinct chemokine engagement and functional divergence of the human Duffy antigen receptor	Duffy antigen receptor, G protein-coupled receptors, cellular signaling, chemokine receptors, cryogenic-electron microscopy, phosphoproteomics	The Duffy antigen receptor is a seven-transmembrane (7TM) protein expressed primarily at the surface of red blood cells and displays strikingly promiscuous binding to multiple inflammatory and homeostatic chemokines. It serves as the basis of the Duffy blood group system in humans and also acts as the primary attachment site for malarial parasite Plasmodium vivax and pore-forming toxins secreted by Staphylococcus aureus. Here, we comprehensively profile transducer coupling of this receptor, discover potential non-canonical signaling pathways, and determine the cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure in complex with the chemokine CCL7. The structure reveals a distinct binding mode of chemokines, as reflected by relatively superficial binding and a partially formed orthosteric binding pocket. We also observe a dramatic shortening of TM5 and 6 on the intracellular side, which precludes the formation of the docking site for canonical signal transducers, thereby providing a possible explanation for the distinct pharmacological and functional phenotype of this receptor.
PXD023262	39089347	Effect of gamma irradiation on the proteogenome of cold-acclimated Kocuria rhizophila PT10. 	Shotgun proteomics of Kocuria rhizophila PT10	Kokuria, bacteria, irradiation, molecular phenotyping	In this paper, we investigated the effects of ionizing radiation (IR) on the protein dynamics of cold-stressed cells of a radioresistant actinobacterium, Kocuria rhizophila PT10, isolated from the rhizosphere of the desert plant Panicum turgidum using a shotgun methodology based on nanoflow liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (nano LC-MS/MS). Overall, 1,487 proteins were certified, and their abundances were compared between the irradiated condition and control. IR of cold-acclimated PT10 triggered the over-abundance of proteins involved in (1) a strong transcriptional regulation, (2) amidation of peptidoglycan and preservation of cell envelope integrity, (3) detoxification of reactive electrophiles and regulation of the redox status of proteins, (4) base excision repair and prevention of mutagenesis and (5) the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and production of fatty acids. Also, one of the more significant findings to emerge from this study is the SOS response of stressed PT10. Moreover, a comparison of top hits radio-modulated proteins of cold-acclimated PT10 with proteomics data from gamma-irradiated Deinococcus deserti showed that stressed PT10 has a specific response characterised by a high over-abundance of two transcriptional regulators, NemA, GatD, and UdgB.
PXD046594	39092172	The role of HnrnpF/H as a driver of oligoteratozoospermia. 	The role of HnrnpF/H as a driver of Oligoteratozoospermia	Male Infertility, SWATH-MS, Sperm	Male subfertility or infertility is a common condition often characterized by men producing a low number of sperm with poor quality. To gain insight into this condition, we performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of semen samples obtained from infertile and fertile men. At least 6 proteins showed significant differences in regulation of alternatively spliced isoforms. To investigate this link between aberrant alternative splicing and production of poor-quality spermatozoa, we overexpressed the hnrnpH/F-orthologue Glorund (Glo) in Drosophila, which was also found to be abundant in poor quality human sperm. Transgenic animals produced low numbers of morphologically defective spermatozoa and aberrant formation of the "dense body," an organelle akin to the mammalian manchette. Furthermore, fertility trials demonstrated that transgenic flies were either completely infertile or highly subfertile. These findings suggest that dysregulation of hnrnpH/F is likely to result in the production of low-quality semen, leading to subfertility or infertility in men.
PXD048830	39092875	Active protein ubiquitination regulates xylem vessel functionality. 	Active protein ubiquitination regulates xylem vessel functionality	VND7, ubiquitination, xylem vessel	Xylem vessels function in the long-distance conduction of water in land plants. The NAC transcription factor VASCULAR-RELATED NAC-DOMAIN7 (VND7) is a master regulator of xylem vessel cell differentiation in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). We previously isolated suppressor of ectopic xylem vessel cell differentiation induced by VND7 (seiv) mutants. Here, we report that the responsible genes for seiv3, seiv4, seiv6, and seiv9 are protein ubiquitination-related genes encoding PLANT U-BOX46 (PUB46), an uncharacterized F-BOX protein (FBX), PUB36, and UBIQUITIN-SPECIFIC PROTEASE1 (UBP1), respectively. We also found decreased expression of genes downstream of VND7 and abnormal xylem transport activity in the seiv mutants. Upon VND7 induction, ubiquitination levels from 492 and 180 protein groups were up- and down-regulated, respectively. VND7 induction resulted in the ubiquitination of proteins for cell wall biosynthesis and protein transport, whereas such active protein ubiquitination did not occur in the seiv mutants. We detected the ubiquitination of three lysine residues in VND7: K94, K105, and K260. Substituting K94 with arginine significantly decreased the transactivation activity of VND7, suggesting that the ubiquitination of K94 is crucial for regulating VND7 activity. Our findings highlight the crucial roles of target protein ubiquitination in regulating xylem vessel activity.
PXD054402	39093953	The E3 ubiquitin ligase Herc1 modulates the response to nucleoside analogs in acute myeloid leukemia. 	LC-MS3 analysis of Herc1-knockout mouse MLL/AF9 acute myeloid leukemia cells	Acute myeloid leukemia, Herc1, LC-MS3	For several decades, induction therapy with nucleoside analogs, in particular cytarabine (Ara-C) and, to a lesser extent, fludarabine, has been the standard of care for patients diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Still, the anti-tumor efficacy of nucleoside analogs is often limited by intrinsic and acquired drug resistance, thereby leading to poor therapeutic response and suboptimal clinical outcomes. Here, we used genome-wide CRISPR-based pharmacogenomic screening to map the genetic factors that modulate the response to nucleoside analogs in AML and identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase Herc1 as a key modulator of Ara-C response in the MLL/AF9 (MA) and the HOXA9/MEIS1 (HM) murine AML models both in vitro and in vivo. Loss of HERC1 enhanced nucleoside analog-induced cell death in both murine and human AML cell lines by compromising cell cycle progression. In-depth proteomic analysis and subsequent validation identified deoxycytidine kinase Dck as a novel target of Herc1 in MA and HM murine cells. We observed that HERC1 is overexpressed in AML compared to other cancer types and higher HERC1 expression is associated with shorter overall survival of patients with AML in the TCGA and BEAT-AML cohorts. Collectively, this study highlights the importance of HERC1 in the response of AML cells to nucleoside analogs, thereby establishing this E3 ubiquitin ligase as a novel predictive biomarker and potential therapeutic target for the treatment of AML.
PXD048804	39093974	Opa1 processing is dispensable in mouse development but is protective in mitochondrial cardiomyopathy. 	Heart proteome in Cox10 depending on Opa1 processing	Cox10, Heart, Opa1	Mitochondrial fusion and fission accompany adaptive responses to stress and altered metabolic demands. Inner membrane fusion and cristae morphogenesis depends on optic atrophy 1 (Opa1), which is expressed in different isoforms and is cleaved from a membrane-bound, long to a soluble, short form. Here, we have analyzed the physiological role of Opa1 isoforms and Opa1 processing by generating mouse lines expressing only one cleavable Opa1 isoform or a non-cleavable variant thereof. Our results show that expression of a single cleavable or non-cleavable Opa1 isoform preserves embryonic development and the health of adult mice. Opa1 processing is dispensable under metabolic and thermal stress but prolongs life span and protects against mitochondrial cardiomyopathy in OXPHOS-deficient Cox10(-/-) mice. Mechanistically, loss of Opa1 processing disturbs the balance between mitochondrial biogenesis and mitophagy, suppressing cardiac hypertrophic growth in Cox10(-/-) hearts. Our results highlight the critical regulatory role of Opa1 processing, mitochondrial dynamics, and metabolism for cardiac hypertrophy.
PXD030187	39094987	Inhibition of K63 ubiquitination by G-Protein pathway suppressor 2 (GPS2) regulates mitochondria-associated translation. 	Inhibition of MUL1-mediated ubiquitination promotes mitochondria-associated translation	GPS2, LC-MSMUbiquitin, Liver, MUL1, PABPC, Plasma, i.e. Human, mitochondria, mitochondria stress response (MSR)S	G-Protein Pathway Suppressor 2 (GPS2) is an inhibitor of non-proteolytic K63 ubiquitination mediated by the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme Ubc13. Previous studies have associated GPS2-mediated restriction of ubiquitination with the regulation of insulin signaling, inflammatory responses and mitochondria-nuclear communication across different tissues and cell types. However, a detailed understanding of the targets of GPS2/Ubc13 activity is lacking. Here, we have dissected the GPS2-regulated K63 ubiquitome in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and human breast cancer cells, unexpectedly finding an enrichment for proteins involved in RNA binding and translation on the outer mitochondrial membrane. Validation of selected targets of GPS2-mediated regulation, including the RNA-binding protein PABPC1 and translation factors RPS1, RACK1 and eIF3M, revealed a mitochondrial-specific strategy for regulating the translation of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins via non-proteolytic ubiquitination. Removal of GPS2-mediated inhibition, either via genetic deletion or stress-induced nuclear translocation, promotes the import-coupled translation of selected mRNAs leading to the increased expression of an adaptive antioxidant program. In light of GPS2 role in nuclear-mitochondria communication, these findings reveal an exquisite regulatory network for modulating mitochondrial gene expression through spatially coordinated transcription and translation.
PXD041237	39095841	Heat-killed probiotic Levilactobacillus brevis MKAK9 and its exopolysaccharide promote longevity by modulating aging hallmarks and enhancing immune responses in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	Heat-killed probiotic Levilactobacillus brevis MRKAK9 downregulates insulin-signaling pathway and improves proteostasis and autophagy to promote longevity and immunity  in Caenorhabditis elegans	Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), SKN-1 transcription factor, aging biomarkers, lactic acid bacteria, longevity, p38 MAPK signalin	BACKGROUND: Proteostasis is a critical aging hallmark responsible for removing damaged or misfolded proteins and their aggregates by improving proteasomal degradation through the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) and the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). Research on the impact of heat-killed probiotic bacteria and their structural components on aging hallmarks and innate immune responses is scarce, yet enhancing these effects could potentially delay age-related diseases. RESULTS: This study introduces a novel heat-killed Levilactobacillus brevis strain MKAK9 (HK MKAK9), along with its exopolysaccharide (EPS), demonstrating their ability to extend longevity by improving proteostasis and immune responses in wild-type Caenorhabditis elegans. We elucidate the underlying mechanisms through a comprehensive approach involving mRNA- and small RNA sequencing, proteomic analysis, lifespan assays on loss-of-function mutants, and quantitative RT-PCR. Mechanistically, HK MKAK9 and its EPS resulted in downregulation of the insulin-like signaling pathway in a DAF-16-dependent manner, enhancing protein ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation through activation of the ALP pathway, which is partially mediated by microRNA mir-243. Importantly, autophagosomes engulf ubiquitinylated proteins, as evidenced by increased expression of the autophagy receptor sqst-3, and subsequently fuse with lysosomes, facilitated by increased levels of the lysosome-associated membrane protein (LAMP) lmp-1, suggesting the formation of autolysosomes for degradation of the selected cargo. Moreover, HK MKAK9 and its EPS activated the p38 MAPK pathway and its downstream SKN-1 transcription factor, which are known to regulate genes involved in innate immune response (thn-1, ilys-1, cnc-2, spp-9, spp-21, clec-47, and clec-266) and antioxidation (sod-3 and gst-44), thereby reducing the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) at both cellular and mitochondrial levels. Notably, SOD-3 emerged as a transcriptional target of both DAF-16 and SKN-1 transcription factors. CONCLUSION: Our research sets a benchmark for future investigations by demonstrating that heat-killed probiotic and its specific cellular component, EPS, can downregulate the insulin-signaling pathway, potentially improving the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) for degrading ubiquitinylated proteins and promoting organismal longevity. Additionally, we discovered that increased expression of microRNA mir-243 regulates insulin-like signaling and its downstream ALP pathway. Our findings also indicate that postbiotic treatment may bolster antioxidative and innate immune responses, offering a promising avenue for interventions in aging-related diseases.
PXD051410	39096357	Mitochondrial control of hypoxia-induced pathological retinal angiogenesis. 	Mitochondrial control of hypoxia-induced pathological retinal angiogenesis	Retina, Retinal angiogenesis, hypoxia, mitochondrial respiration, neovascularization, oxygen-induced retinopathy	OBJECTIVE: Pathological retinal neovascularization is vision-threatening. In mouse oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) we sought to define mitochondrial respiration changes longitudinally during hyperoxia-induced vessel loss and hypoxia-induced neovascularization, and to test interventions addressing those changes to prevent neovascularization. METHODS: OIR was induced in C57BL/6J mice and retinal vasculature was examined at maximum neovessel formation. We assessed total proteome changes and the ratio of mitochondrial to nuclear DNA copy numbers (mtDNA/nDNA) of OIR vs. control retinas, and mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates (OCR) in ex vivo OIR vs. control retinas (BaroFuse). Pyruvate vs. vehicle control was supplemented to OIR mice either prior to or during neovessel formation. RESULTS: In OIR vs. control retinas, global proteomics showed decreased retinal mitochondrial respiration at peak neovascularization. OCR and mtDNA/nDNA were also decreased at peak neovascularization suggesting impaired mitochondrial respiration. In vivo pyruvate administration during but not prior to neovessel formation (in line with mitochondrial activity time course) suppressed NV. CONCLUSIONS: Mitochondrial energetics were suppressed during retinal NV in OIR. Appropriately timed supplementation of pyruvate may be a novel approach in neovascular retinal diseases.
PXD047517	39098533	In vivo Mapping of the Mouse Galnt3-specific O-Glycoproteome. 	In vivo Mapping of the Mouse Galnt3-specific O-Glycoproteome	GalNAc-T, Galnt, Glycopeptides, Glycosyltransferase, Hyperphosphatemic Familial Tumoral Calcinosis (HFTC), O-GalNAc, O-glycosylation	The UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine polypeptide:N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (GalNAc-T) family of enzymes initiates O-linked glycosylation by catalyzing the addition of the first GalNAc sugar to serine or threonine on proteins destined to be membrane-bound or secreted. Defects in individual isoforms of the GalNAc-T family can lead to certain congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG). The GALNT3-CDG, is caused by mutations in GALNT3, resulting in hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis (HFTC) due to impaired glycosylation of the phosphate-regulating hormone FGF23 within osteocytes of the bone. Patients with hyperphosphatemia present altered bone density, abnormal tooth structure and calcified masses throughout the body. It is therefore important to identify all potential substrates of GalNAc-T3 throughout the body to understand the complex disease phenotypes. Here, we compared the Galnt3(-/-) mouse model, which partially phenocopies GALNT3-CDG, with wild-type mice and employed a multi-component approach utilizing chemoenzymatic conditions, a product-dependent method constructed using EThcD triggered scans in a mass spectrometry workflow, quantitative O-glycoproteomics, and global proteomics to identify 663 Galnt3-specific O-glycosites from 269 glycoproteins across multiple tissues. Consistent with the mouse and human phenotypes, functional networks of glycoproteins that contain GalNAc-T3-specific O-glycosites involved in skeletal morphology, mineral level maintenance and hemostasis were identified. This library of in vivo GalNAc-T3-specific substrate proteins and O-glycosites will serve as a valuable resource to understand the functional implications of O-glycosylation and to unravel the underlying causes of complex human GALNT3-CDG phenotypes.
PXD029641	39099191	NatB Protects Procaspase-8 from UBR4-Mediated Degradation and Is Required for Full Induction of the Extrinsic Apoptosis Pathway. 	Proteomic study of Naa20 inactivation in MEFs	Acetylation, MEF, Mus musculus, N-terminal, Naa20	N-terminal acetyltransferase B (NatB) is a major contributor to the N-terminal acetylome and is implicated in several key cellular processes including apoptosis and proteostasis. However, the molecular mechanisms linking NatB-mediated N-terminal acetylation to apoptosis and its relationship with protein homeostasis remain elusive. In this study, we generated mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) with an inactivated catalytic subunit of NatB (Naa20(-/-)) to investigate the impact of NatB deficiency on apoptosis regulation. Through quantitative N-terminomics, label-free quantification, and targeted proteomics, we demonstrated that NatB does not influence the proteostasis of all its substrates. Instead, our focus on putative NatB-dependent apoptotic factors revealed that NatB serves as a protective shield against UBR4 and UBR1 Arg/N-recognin-mediated degradation. Notably, Naa20(-/-) MEFs exhibited reduced responsiveness to an extrinsic pro-apoptotic stimulus, a phenotype that was partially reversible upon UBR4 Arg/N-recognin silencing and consequent inhibition of procaspase-8 degradation. Collectively, our results shed light on how the interplay between NatB-mediated acetylation and the Arg/N-degron pathway appears to impact apoptosis regulation, providing new perspectives in the field including in therapeutic interventions.
PXD038300	39100923	Transient titin-dependent ventricular defects during development lead to adult atrial arrhythmia and impaired contractility. 	Titin-dependent transient ventricular defects result in adult atrial arrhythmia and impaired contractility	atrial fibrillation, cardiac potassium channel, titin, zebrafish	Developmental causes of the most common arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation (AF), are poorly defined, with compensation potentially masking arrhythmic risk. Here, we delete 9 amino acids (Delta9) within a conserved domain of the giant protein titin's A-band in zebrafish and human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived atrial cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-aCMs). We find that ttna (Delta9/Delta9) zebrafish embryos' cardiac morphology is perturbed and accompanied by reduced functional output, but ventricular function recovers within days. Despite normal ventricular function, ttna (Delta9/Delta9) adults exhibit AF and atrial myopathy, which are recapitulated in TTN (Delta9/Delta9)-hiPSC-aCMs. Additionally, action potential is shortened and slow delayed rectifier potassium current (I Ks) is increased due to aberrant atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels. Strikingly, suppression of I Ks in both models prevents AF and improves atrial contractility. Thus, a small internal deletion in titin causes developmental abnormalities that increase the risk of AF via ion channel remodeling, with implications for patients who harbor disease-causing variants in sarcomeric proteins.
PXD048448	39101792	Comprehensive Glycomic and Glycoproteomic Analyses of Human Programmed Cell Death Protein 1 Extracellular Domain. 	Comprehensive glycomic and glycoproteomic analysis of human programmed cell death protein 1 extracellular domain	Glycosylation, glycan, programmed cell death protein 1	Human programmed cell death protein 1 (hPD-1) is an essential receptor in the immune checkpoint pathway. It has played an important role in cancer therapy. However, not all patients respond positively to the PD-1 antibody treatment, and the underlying mechanism remains unknown. PD-1 is a transmembrane glycoprotein, and its extracellular domain (ECD) is reported to be responsible for interactions and signal transduction. This domain contains 4 N-glycosylation sites and 25 potential O-glycosylation sites, which implicates the importance of glycosylation. The structure of hPD-1 has been intensively studied, but the glycosylation of this protein, especially the glycan on each glycosylation site, has not been comprehensively illustrated. In this study, hPD-1 ECD expressed by human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK 293) and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells was analyzed; not only N- and O-glycosylation sites but also the glycans on these sites were comprehensively analyzed using mass spectrometry. In addition, hPD-1 ECD binding to different anti-hPD-1 antibodies was tested, and N-glycans were found functioned differently. All of this glycan information will be beneficial for future PD-1 studies.
PXD047815	39103634	A natural small molecule alleviates liver fibrosis by targeting apolipoprotein L2. 	A natural small molecule alleviates liver fibrosis by targeting apolipoprotein L2 (APOL2)-mediated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress	APOL2, Anti-liver fibrosis, ER stress, HES1, Natural small molecule	Liver fibrosis is an urgent clinical problem without effective therapies. Here we conducted a high-content screening on a natural Euphorbiaceae diterpenoid library to identify a potent anti-liver fibrosis lead, 12-deoxyphorbol 13-palmitate (DP). Leveraging a photo-affinity labeling approach, apolipoprotein L2 (APOL2), an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-rich protein, was identified as the direct target of DP. Mechanistically, APOL2 is induced in activated hepatic stellate cells upon transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) stimulation, which then binds to sarcoplasmic/ER calcium ATPase 2 (SERCA2) to trigger ER stress and elevate its downstream protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK)-hairy and enhancer of split 1 (HES1) axis, ultimately promoting liver fibrosis. As a result, targeting APOL2 by DP or ablation of APOL2 significantly impairs APOL2-SERCA2-PERK-HES1 signaling and mitigates fibrosis progression. Our findings not only define APOL2 as a novel therapeutic target for liver fibrosis but also highlight DP as a promising lead for treatment of this symptom.
PXD051666	39103698	The MondoA-dependent TXNIP/GDF15 axis predicts oxaliplatin response in colorectal adenocarcinomas. 	Secretome from TXNIP knockout human colorectal cell line (DLD1)	TXNIP, colorectal, secreted	Chemotherapy, the standard of care treatment for cancer patients with advanced disease, has been increasingly recognized to activate host immune responses to produce durable outcomes. Here, in colorectal adenocarcinoma (CRC) we identify oxaliplatin-induced Thioredoxin-Interacting Protein (TXNIP), a MondoA-dependent tumor suppressor gene, as a negative regulator of Growth/Differentiation Factor 15 (GDF15). GDF15 is a negative prognostic factor in CRC and promotes the differentiation of regulatory T cells (Tregs), which inhibit CD8 T-cell activation. Intriguingly, multiple models including patient-derived tumor organoids demonstrate that the loss of TXNIP and GDF15 responsiveness to oxaliplatin is associated with advanced disease or chemotherapeutic resistance, with transcriptomic or proteomic GDF15/TXNIP ratios showing potential as a prognostic biomarker. These findings illustrate a potentially common pathway where chemotherapy-induced epithelial oxidative stress drives local immune remodeling for patient benefit, with disruption of this pathway seen in refractory or advanced cases.
PXD047939	39103876	Efficiency of acetate-based isopropanol synthesis in Escherichia coli W is controlled by ATP demand. 	Efficiency of acetate-based isopropanol synthesis in Escherichia coli W is controlled by ATP availability	acetate, bioingeneering, ecoli, ecoli W, isopropanol	BACKGROUND: Due to increasing ecological concerns, microbial production of biochemicals from sustainable carbon sources like acetate is rapidly gaining importance. However, to successfully establish large-scale production scenarios, a solid understanding of metabolic driving forces is required to inform bioprocess design. To generate such knowledge, we constructed isopropanol-producing Escherichia coli W strains. RESULTS: Based on strain screening and metabolic considerations, a 2-stage process was designed, incorporating a growth phase followed by a nitrogen-starvation phase. This process design yielded the highest isopropanol titers on acetate to date (13.3 g L(-1)). Additionally, we performed shotgun and acetylated proteomics, and identified several stress conditions in the bioreactor scenarios, such as acid stress and impaired sulfur uptake. Metabolic modeling allowed for an in-depth characterization of intracellular flux distributions, uncovering cellular demand for ATP and acetyl-CoA as limiting factors for routing carbon toward the isopropanol pathway. Moreover, we asserted the importance of a balance between fluxes of the NADPH-providing isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH) and the product pathway. CONCLUSIONS: Using the newly gained system-level understanding for isopropanol production from acetate, we assessed possible engineering approaches and propose process designs to maximize production. Collectively, our work contributes to the establishment and optimization of acetate-based bioproduction systems.
PXD051500	39104279	A Predictive Model for Initial Platinum-Based Chemotherapy Efficacy in Patients with Postoperative Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Using Tissue-Derived Small Extracellular Vesicles. 	Proteomics of 58 platinum-sensitive and 30 platinum-resistant ovarian cancer tissue-derived exosomes	4D DIA proteomics, Ovarian cancer, tissue-derived exosomes	Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is an often-fatal malignancy marked by the development of resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy. Thus, accurate prediction of platinum drug efficacy is crucial for strategically selecting postoperative interventions to mitigate the risks associated with suboptimal therapeutic outcomes and adverse effects. Tissue-derived extracellular vesicles (tsEVs), in contrast to their plasma counterparts, have emerged as a powerful tool for examining distinctive attributes of EOC tissues. In this study, 4D data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomic sequencing was performed on tsEVs obtained from 58 platinum-sensitive and 30 platinum-resistant patients with EOC. The analysis revealed a notable enrichment of differentially expressed proteins that were predominantly associated with immune-related pathways. Moreover, pivotal immune-related proteins (IRPs) were identified by LASSO regression. These factors, combined with clinical parameters selected through univariate logistic regression, were used for the construction of a model employing multivariate logistic regression. This model integrated three tsEV IRPs, CCR1, IGHV_35 and CD72, with one clinical parameter, the presence of postoperative residual lesions. Thus, this model could predict the efficacy of initial platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with EOC post-surgery, providing prognostic insights even before the initiation of chemotherapy.
PXD050415	39104440	Unraveling the molecular landscape of lead-induced cochlear synaptopathy: a quantitative proteomics analysis. 	Unraveling the Molecular Landscape of Lead-Induced Cochlear Synaptopathy: A Quantitative Proteomic Analysis	Pb, cochlea, hearing loss	Introduction: Exposure to heavy metal lead can cause serious health effects such as developmental neurotoxicity in infants, cognitive impairment in children, and cardiovascular and nephrotoxic effects in adults. Hearing loss is one of the toxic effects induced by exposure to lead. Previous studies demonstrated that exposure to lead causes oxidative stress in the cochlea and disrupts ribbon synapses in the inner hair cells. Methods: This study investigated the underlying mechanism by evaluating the changes in the abundance of cochlear synaptosomal proteins that accompany lead-induced cochlear synaptopathy and hearing loss in mice. Young-adult CBA/J mice were given lead acetate in drinking water for 28 days. Results: Lead exposure significantly increased the hearing thresholds, particularly at the higher frequencies in both male and female mice, but it did not affect the activity of outer hair cells or induce hair cell loss. However, lead exposure decreased wave-I amplitude, suggesting lead-induced cochlear synaptopathy. In agreement, colocalization of pre- and post-synaptic markers indicated that lead exposure decreased the number of paired synapses in the basal turn of the cochlea. Proteomics analysis indicated that lead exposure increased the abundance of 352 synaptic proteins and decreased the abundance of 394 synaptic proteins in the cochlea. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that proteins that change in abundance are highly enriched in the synaptic vesicle cycle pathway. Discussion: Together, these results suggest that outer hair cells are not the primary target in lead-induced ototoxicity, that lead-induced cochlear synaptopathy is more pronounced in the basal turn of the cochlea, and that synaptic vesicle cycle signaling potentially plays a critical role in lead-induced cochlear synaptopathy.
PXD050305	39106107	Speed of lung inflation at birth influences the initiation of lung injury in preterm lambs. 	Proteomics analysis of preterm lung tissue with mass spectrometry to understand the impact of bias gas flow strategy at birth	bias gas flow, lung proteomics, preterm lung injury	Gas flow is fundamental for driving tidal ventilation and thus the speed of lung motion, but current bias flow settings to support the preterm lung after birth are without an evidence base. We aimed to determine the role of gas bias flow rates to generate positive pressure ventilation in initiating early lung injury pathways in the preterm lamb. Using slower speeds to inflate the lung during tidal ventilation (gas flow rates 4-6 L/min) did not impact lung mechanics, mechanical power or gas exchange compared to those currently used in clinical practice (8-10 L/min). Speed of pressure and volume change during inflation were faster with higher flow rates. Lower flow rates resulted in less bronchoalveolar fluid protein, better lung morphology and fewer detached epithelial cells. Overall, relative to unventilated fetal controls, there was greater protein change using 8-10 L/min, which was associated with enrichment of acute inflammatory and innate responses. Slowing the speed of lung motion by supporting the preterm lung from birth with lower flow rates than currently used clinically resulted in less lung injury without compromising tidal ventilation or gas exchange.
PXD054258	39107299	Bone controls browning of white adipose tissue and protects from diet-induced obesity through Schnurri-3-regulated SLIT2 secretion. 	Murine osteoblast, supernatant and serum mass spectrometry analysis	osteoblast, secretome, serum	The skeleton has been suggested to function as an endocrine organ controlling whole organism energy balance, however the mediators of this effect and their molecular links remain unclear. Here, utilizing Schnurri-3(-/-) (Shn3(-/-)) mice with augmented osteoblast activity, we show Shn3(-/-)mice display resistance against diet-induced obesity and enhanced white adipose tissue (WAT) browning. Conditional deletion of Shn3 in osteoblasts but not adipocytes recapitulates lean phenotype of Shn3(-/-)mice, indicating this phenotype is driven by skeleton. We further demonstrate osteoblasts lacking Shn3 can secrete cytokines to promote WAT browning. Among them, we identify a C-terminal fragment of SLIT2 (SLIT2-C), primarily secreted by osteoblasts, as a Shn3-regulated osteokine that mediates WAT browning. Lastly, AAV-mediated Shn3 silencing phenocopies the lean phenotype and augmented glucose metabolism. Altogether, our findings establish a novel bone-fat signaling axis via SHN3 regulated SLIT2-C production in osteoblasts, offering a potential therapeutic target to address both osteoporosis and metabolic syndrome.
PXD053225	39107380	A label-free quantification method for assessing sex from modern and ancient bovine tooth enamel. 	Label-Free Quantification Method for Assessing Sex from Modern and Ancient Bovine Tooth Enamel. PART III	Amels, LFQ, sex determination	Identification of the sex of modern, fossil and archaeological animal remains offers many insights into their demography, mortality profiles and domestication pathways. However, due to many-factors, sex determination of osteological remains is often problematic. To overcome this, we have developed an innovative protocol to determine an animal's sex from tooth enamel, by applying label-free quantification (LFQ) of two unique AmelY peptides 'LRYPYP' (AmelY;[M+2]   2 +   404.7212 m/z) and 'LRYPYPSY' (AmelY;[M+2]   2 +   529.7689 m/z) that are only present in the enamel of males. We applied this method to eight modern cattle (Bos taurus) of known sex, and correctly assigned them to sex. We then applied the same protocol to twelve archaeological Bos teeth from the Neolithic site of Beisamoun, Israel (8-th-7-th millennium BC) and determined the sex of the archaeological samples. Since teeth are usually better preserved than bones, this innovative protocol has potential to facilitate sex determination in ancient and modern bovine remains that currently cannot be sexed.
PXD048543	39107495	Novel role for Ddx39 in differentiation and telomere length regulation of embryonic stem cells. 	Ddx39 is essential for the differentiation and telomere homeostasis of Embryonic Stem Cells	Ddx39, Embryonic Stem Cells, Erk2, coip	Erk signaling is indispensable for the self-renewal and differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs), as well as telomere homeostasis. But how Erk regulates these biological processes remains unclear. We identified 132 Erk2 interacting proteins by co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometric analysis, and focused on Ddx39 as a potential Erk2 substrate. We demonstrated that Erk2 phosphorylates Ddx39 on Y132 and Y138. Ddx39 knockout (KO) ESCs are defective in differentiation, due to reduced H3K27ac level upon differentiation. Phosphorylation of Ddx39 promotes the recruitment of Hat1 to acetylate H3K27 and activate differentiation genes. In addition, Ddx39 KO leads to telomere elongation in ESCs. Ddx39 is recruited to telomeres by the telomere-binding protein Trf1, consequently disrupting the DNA loop formed by Trf1 and suppressing the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). Phosphorylation of Ddx39 weakens its interaction with Trf1, releasing it from telomeres. Thus, ALT activity is enhanced, and telomeres are elongated. Altogether, our studies reveal an essential role of Ddx39 in the differentiation and telomere homeostasis of ESCs.
PXD041691	39107711	Nitrogen starvation leads to TOR kinase-mediated downregulation of fatty acid synthesis in the algae Chlorella sorokiniana and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. 	Nitrogen starvation leads to TOR kinase-mediated downregulation of fatty acid synthesis in the algae Chlorella sorokiniana and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii	Chlorella, TOR, fatty acids, label-free, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: When subject to stress conditions such as nutrient limitation microalgae accumulate triacylglycerol (TAG). Fatty acid, a substrate for TAG synthesis is derived from de novo synthesis or by membrane remodeling. The model industrial alga Chlorellasorokiniana accumulates TAG and other storage compounds under nitrogen (N)-limited growth. Molecular mechanisms underlying these processes are still to be elucidated. RESULT: Previously we used transcriptomics to explore the regulation of TAG synthesis in C. sorokiniana. Surprisingly, our analysis showed that the expression of several key genes encoding enzymes involved in plastidic fatty acid synthesis are significantly repressed. Metabolic labeling with radiolabeled acetate showed that de novo fatty acid synthesis is indeed downregulated under N-limitation. Likewise, inhibition of the Target of Rapamycin kinase (TOR), a key regulator of metabolism and growth, decreased fatty acid synthesis. We compared the changes in proteins and phosphoprotein abundance using a proteomics and phosphoproteomics approach in C. sorokiniana cells under N-limitation or TOR inhibition and found extensive overlap between the N-limited and TOR-inhibited conditions. We also identified changes in the phosphorylation status of TOR complex proteins, TOR-kinase, and RAPTOR, under N-limitation. This indicates that TOR signaling is altered in a nitrogen-dependent manner. We find that TOR-mediated metabolic remodeling of fatty acid synthesis under N-limitation is conserved in the chlorophyte algae Chlorella sorokiniana and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that under N-limitation there is significant metabolic remodeling, including fatty acid synthesis, mediated by TOR signaling. This process is conserved across chlorophyte algae. Using proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis, we show that N-limitation affects TOR signaling and this in-turn affects the metabolic status of the cells. This study presents a link between N-limitation, TOR signaling and fatty acid synthesis in green-lineage.
PXD046167	39109736	Protein profile of purified plasma- and aqueous humor-derived extracellular vesicles from patients with ocular toxoplasmosis. 	Protein profile of purified plasma and aqueous humor-derived extracellular vesicles from patients with ocular toxoplasmosis	Aqueous Humor, Extracellular Vesicles, Liquid Biopsy, Ocular Toxoplasmosis, Plasma, Toxoplasma gondii	PURPOSE: To characterize the extracellular vesicle protein cargo in the aqueous humor and plasma of patients with ocular toxoplasmosis. METHODS: Aqueous humor and plasma were collected from six patients with active ocular toxoplasmosis and six patients with cataract. Extracellular vesicles were isolated, and western blotting and mass spectrometry were performed for protein analysis. RESULTS: All plasma samples from patients with ocular toxoplasmosis and cataract were positive for the tetraspanins CD63 and TSG101. However, the aqueous humor from patients with ocular toxoplasmosis was positive only for CD63. Sixty-seven new unreported proteins were identified in the aqueous humor and plasma of patients with the ocular toxoplasmosis and cataract. Of the 67 proteins, 10 and 7 were found only in the cataract and ocular toxoplasmosis groups, respectively. In general, these proteins were involved in immune system activation and retina homeostasis and were related to infections and retina-associated diseases. CONCLUSION: The distinct protein signatures between ocular toxoplasmosis and cataract may be helpful in the differential diagnosis of ocular toxoplasmosis. However, more studies are needed to better understand the role of these proteins in the pathogenesis of ocular toxoplasmosis.
PXD053887	39110593	VAP-mediated membrane-tethering mechanisms implicate ER-PM contact function in pH homeostasis. 	VAP-mediated membrane tethering mechanisms implicate ER-PM contact function in pH homeostasis 	Schizosaccharomyces pombe, VAP interactome	Vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)-associated proteins (VAPs) are highly conserved endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident proteins that establish ER contacts with multiple membrane compartments in many eukaryotes. However, VAP-mediated membrane-tethering mechanisms remain ambiguous. Here, focusing on fission yeast ER-plasma membrane (PM) contact formation, using systematic interactome analyses and quantitative microscopy, we predict a non-VAP-protein direct binding-based ER-PM coupling. We further reveal that VAP-anionic phospholipid interactions may underlie ER-PM association and define the pH-responsive nature of VAP-tethered membrane contacts. Such conserved interactions with anionic phospholipids are generally defective in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-associated human VAPB mutant. Moreover, we identify a conserved FFAT-like motif locating at the autoinhibitory hotspot of the essential PM proton pump Pma1. This modulatory VAP-Pma1 interaction appears crucial for pH homeostasis. We thus propose an ingenious strategy for maintaining intracellular pH by coupling Pma1 modulation with pH-sensory ER-PM contacts via VAP-mediated interactions.
PXD049007	39110629	Gel-Assisted Proteome Position Integral Shift Assay Returns Molecular Weight to Shotgun Proteomics and Identifies Caspase 3 Substrates. 	Gel-Assisted Proteome Position Integral Shift (GAPPIS) Assay Returns Molecular Weight to Shotgun Proteomics and Identifies Novel Caspase 3 Substrates	Molecular Weight,Shotgun Proteomics,mass spectrometry, caspase 3, gel electrophoresis	Here, we present a high-throughput virtual top-down proteomics approach that restores the molecular weight (MW) information in shotgun proteomics and demonstrates its utility in studying proteolytic events in programmed cell death. With gel-assisted proteome position integral shift (GAPPIS), we quantified over 7000 proteins in staurosporine-induced apoptotic HeLa cells and identified 84 proteins exhibiting in a statistically significant manner at least two of the following features: (i) a negative MW shift; (ii) an elevated ratio in a pair of a semitryptic and tryptic peptide, (iii) a negative shift in the standard deviation of MW estimated for different peptides, and (iv) a negative shift in skewness of the same data. Of these proteins, 58 molecules were previously unreported caspase 3 substrates. Further analysis identified the preferred cleavage sites consistent with the known caspase cleavages after the DXXD motif. As a powerful tool for high-throughput MW analysis simultaneously with the conventional expression analysis, the GAPPIS assay can prove useful in studying a broad range of biological processes involving proteolytic events.
PXD043542	39111711	optiPRM: A targeted immunopeptidomics LC-MS workflow with ultra-high sensitivity for the detection of mutation-derived tumor neoepitopes from limited input material. 	optiPRM: A targeted immunopeptidomics LC-MS workflow with ultra-high sensitivity for the detection of mutation-derived tumor neoepitopes from limited input material	Immunopeptidomics, LC-MS, PRM, Targeted MS	Personalized cancer immunotherapies such as therapeutic vaccines and adoptive transfer of T cell receptor (TCR)-transgenic T cells rely on the presentation of tumor-specific peptides by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules to cytotoxic T cells. Such neoepitopes can for example arise from somatic mutations and their identification is crucial for the rational design of new therapeutic interventions. Liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based immunopeptidomics is the only method to directly prove actual peptide presentation and we have developed a parameter optimization workflow to tune targeted assays for maximum detection sensitivity on a per peptide basis, termed optiPRM. Optimization of collision energy using optiPRM allows for improved detection of low abundant peptides that are very hard to detect using standard parameters. Applying this to immunopeptidomics, we detected a neoepitope in a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) from as little as 2.5x10(6) cells input. Application of the workflow on small patient tumor samples allowed for the detection of five mutation-derived neoepitopes in three patients. One neoepitope was confirmed to be recognized by patient T cells. In conclusion, optiPRM, a targeted MS workflow reaching ultra-high sensitivity by per peptide parameter optimization, which makes the identification of actionable neoepitopes possible from sample sizes usually available in the clinic.
PXD050118	39111712	Systematic Proteome Profiling of Maternal Plasma for Development of Preeclampsia Biomarkers. 	Systematic Proteome Profiling of Maternal Plasma for Development of Preeclampsia Biomarkers	plasma, preeclampsia	BACKGROUND: Preeclampsia (PE) is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy with various clinical symptoms. However, traditional markers for the disease including high blood pressure and proteinuria are poor indicators of the related adverse outcomes. Here, we performed systematic proteome profiling of plasma samples obtained from pregnant women with PE to identify clinically effective diagnostic biomarkers. METHODS: Proteome profiling was performed using TMT-based liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) followed by subsequent verification by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) analysis on normal and PE maternal plasma samples. Functional annotations of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in PE were predicted using bioinformatic tools. The diagnostic accuracies of the biomarkers for PE were estimated according to the area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC). RESULTS: A total of 1,307 proteins were identified, and 870 proteins of them were quantified from plasma samples. Significant differences were evident in 138 DEPs, including 71 upregulated DEPs and 67 downregulated DEPs in the PE group, compared with those in the control group. Up-regulated proteins were significantly associated with biological processes including platelet degranulation, proteolysis, lipoprotein metabolism, and cholesterol efflux. Biological processes including blood coagulation and acute-phase response were enriched for down-regulated proteins. Of these, 40 proteins were subsequently validated in an independent cohort of 26 PE patients and 29 healthy controls. APOM, LCN2, and QSOX1 showed high diagnostic accuracies for PE detection (AUC > 0.9 and P < 0.001, for all) as validated by MRM and ELISA. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that three plasma biomarkers, identified by systematic proteomic profiling, present a possibility for the assessment of PE, independent of the clinical characteristics of pregnant women.
PXD044847	39112443	SNORD88B-mediated WRN nucleolar trafficking drives self-renewal in liver cancer initiating cells and hepatocarcinogenesis. 	Identified potential interacting proteins of WRN	WRN, liver, oncospheres	Whether small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) are involved in the regulation of liver cancer stem cells (CSCs) self-renewal and serve as therapeutic targets remains largely unclear. Here we show that a functional snoRNA (SNORD88B) is robustly expressed in Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumors and liver CSCs. SNORD88B deficiency abolishes the self-renewal of liver CSCs and hepatocarcinogenesis. Mechanistically, SNORD88B anchors WRN in the nucleolus, promoting XRCC5 interacts with STK4 promoter to suppress its transcription, leading to inactivation of Hippo signaling. Moreover, low expression of STK4 and high expression of XRCC5 are positively correlated with HCC poor prognosis. Additionally, snord88b knockout suppresses mouse liver tumorigenesis. Notably, co-administration of SNORD88B antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) with MST1 agonist adapalene (ADA) exert synergistic antitumor effects and increase overall murine survival. Our findings delineate that SNORD88B drives self-renewal of liver CSCs and accelerates HCC tumorigenesis via non-canonical mechanism, providing potential targets for liver cancer therapy by eliminating liver CSCs.
PXD049428	39113613	Molecular mechanisms and environmental adaptations of flagellar loss and biofilm growth of Rhodanobacter under environmental stress. 	Unraveling the Molecular Mechanism of Biofilm Formation by Rhodanobacter under Environmental Stressors	Biofilm, Rhodanobacter, stress response	Biofilms aid bacterial adhesion to surfaces via direct and indirect mechanisms, and formation of biofilms is considered as an important strategy for adaptation and survival in sub-optimal environmental conditions. However, the molecular underpinnings of biofilm formation in subsurface sediment/groundwater ecosystems where microorganisms often experience fluctuations in nutrient input, pH, nitrate or metal concentrations is underexplored. We examined biofilm formation under different nutrient, pH, metal, and nitrate regimes of 16 Rhodanobacter strains isolated from subsurface groundwater wells spanning diverse pH (3.5 to 5) and nitrate levels (13.7 to 146 mM). Eight Rhodanobacter strains demonstrated significant biofilm growth under low pH, suggesting adaptation to survive and grow at low pH. Biofilms intensified under aluminum stress, particularly in strains possessing fewer genetic traits associated with biofilm formation warranting further investigation. Through RB-TnSeq, proteomics, use of specific mutants and transmission electron microscopy analysis, we discovered flagellar loss under aluminum stress, indicating a potential relationship between motility, metal tolerance, and biofilm growth. Comparative genomic analyses revealed absence of flagella and chemotaxis genes, and presence of putative Type VI secretion system in the high biofilm-forming strain FW021-MT20. This study identifies genetic determinants associated with biofilm growth in a predominant environmental genus, Rhodanobacter, under metal stress and identifies traits aiding survival and adaptation to contaminated subsurface environments.
PXD019323	39113798	Astrocyte-derived lactate aggravates brain injury of ischemic stroke in mice by promoting the formation of protein lactylation. 	Profiling the molecular states in the mouse ischemia and reperfusion cortex reveals a core regulation module of metabolic reprogramming	Aldolase C, Ischemia, Lactylation, Metabolic reprogramming, Reperfusion	Aim: Although lactate supplementation at the reperfusion stage of ischemic stroke has been shown to offer neuroprotection, whether the role of accumulated lactate at the ischemia phase is neuroprotection or not remains largely unknown. Thus, in this study, we aimed to investigate the roles and mechanisms of accumulated brain lactate at the ischemia stage in regulating brain injury of ischemic stroke. Methods and Results: Pharmacological inhibition of lactate production by either inhibiting LDHA or glycolysis markedly attenuated the mouse brain injury of ischemic stroke. In contrast, additional lactate supplement further aggravates brain injury, which may be closely related to the induction of neuronal death and A1 astrocytes. The contributing roles of increased lactate at the ischemic stage may be related to the promotive formation of protein lysine lactylation (Kla), while the post-treatment of lactate at the reperfusion stage did not influence the brain protein Kla levels with neuroprotection. Increased protein Kla levels were found mainly in neurons by the HPLC-MS/MS analysis and immunofluorescent staining. Then, pharmacological inhibition of lactate production or blocking the lactate shuttle to neurons showed markedly decreased protein Kla levels in the ischemic brains. Additionally, Ldha specific knockout in astrocytes (Aldh1l1 (CreERT2); Ldha (fl/fl) mice, cKO) mice with MCAO were constructed and the results showed that the protein Kla level was decreased accompanied by a decrease in the volume of cerebral infarction in cKO mice compared to the control groups. Furthermore, blocking the protein Kla formation by inhibiting the writer p300 with its antagonist A-485 significantly alleviates neuronal death and glial activation of cerebral ischemia with a reduction in the protein Kla level, resulting in extending reperfusion window and improving functional recovery for ischemic stroke. Conclusion: Collectively, increased brain lactate derived from astrocytes aggravates ischemic brain injury by promoting the protein Kla formation, suggesting that inhibiting lactate production or the formation of protein Kla at the ischemia stage presents new therapeutic targets for the treatment of ischemic stroke.
PXD041540	39113837	The acetyltransferase SCO0988 controls positively specialized metabolism and morphological differentiation in the model strains Streptomyces coelicolor and Streptomyces lividans. 	Acetylome of acetyltransferase SCO0988 overexpression in S. lividans TK24	Acetylome, Acetyltransferase, SCO0988, Streptomyces, TK24	Streptomycetes are well-known antibiotic producers possessing in their genomes numerous silent biosynthetic pathways that might direct the biosynthesis of novel bio-active specialized metabolites. It is thus of great interest to find ways to enhance the expression of these pathways to discover most needed novel antibiotics. In this study, we demonstrated that the over-expression of acetyltransferase SCO0988 up-regulated the production of specialized metabolites and accelerated sporulation of the weak antibiotic producer, Streptomyces lividans and that the deletion of this gene had opposite effects in the strong antibiotic producer, Streptomyces coelicolor. The comparative analysis of the acetylome of a S. lividans strain over-expressing sco0988 with that of the original strain revealed that SCO0988 acetylates a broad range of proteins of various pathways including BldKB/SCO5113, the extracellular solute-binding protein of an ABC-transporter involved in the up-take of a signal oligopeptide of the quorum sensing pathway. The up-take of this oligopeptide triggers the "bald cascade" that regulates positively specialized metabolism, aerial mycelium formation and sporulation in S. coelicolor. Interestingly, BldKB/SCO5113 was over-acetylated on four Lysine residues, including Lys(425), upon SCO0988 over-expression. The bald phenotype of a bldKB mutant could be complemented by native bldKB but not by variant of bldKB in which the Lys(425) was replaced by arginine, an amino acid that could not be acetylated or by glutamine, an amino acid that is expected to mimic acetylated lysine. Our study demonstrated that Lys(425) was a critical residue for BldKB function but was inconclusive concerning the impact of acetylation of Lys(425) on BldKB function.
PXD053391	39114061	A classic prescription alleviates inflammation in CUMS model mice via modulating MYDGF/MAP4K4/NF-kappaB signaling pathway, verified through UPLC-HRMS and proteomics analysis. 	A classic famous prescription alleviates inflammation in CUMS model mice via modulating MYDGF/MAP4K4/NF-B signaling pathway, verified through UPLC-HRMS and proteomics analysis	Chronic unpredictable mild stress, Herbal medicine, Major depressive disorder, Proteomics analysis, Ultra high performance liquid chromatography - High resolution mass spectrometry	Background: Xiaoyaosan (XYS), a renowned classical traditional Chinese medicinal formula utilized in addressing major depressive disorder (MDD), has garnered significant acclaim for its remarkable efficacy in clinical application. The onset of major depressive disorder (MDD) often correlates with chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), a pivotal instigating factor in its development.Aim of the study: This study aims to clarify the potential anti-inflammatory mechanisms of XYS in treating CUMS model mice. Materials and methods: Utilizing cutting-edge ultra high-performance liquid chromatography - high-resolution mass spectrometry (UPLC-HRMS), the active constituents of XYS were discerned, while employing proteomics analysis to delve into the potential mechanisms of its efficacy. Molecular docking studies, alongside subsequent in vivo experiments utilizing CUMS model mice, were conducted to corroborate the findings derived from the proteomics analysis. Results: In vivo experiments demonstrated that XYS not only markedly ameliorated behavioral markers but also attenuated serum inflammatory markers and suppressed IL-6 and TNF-alpha expression within the brains of CUMS model mice. Proteomics analysis suggested that the pivotal anti-inflammatory mechanism of XYS against CUMS-induced damage might involve modulation of the MAPK signaling pathway. Utilizing UPLC-HRMS, the active constituents of XYS were successfully identified, while molecular docking investigations explored interactions between XYS and MYDGF, PKC, MAP4K4, P-p65, p65, P-IKBalpha, and IKBalpha. The findings revealed XYS's regulatory influence on the MYDGF/MAP4K4/NF-kappaB signaling cascade. Conclusions: This study is the first to our knowledge to demonstrate that XYS can alleviate inflammation in CUMS model mice by modulating the MYDGF/MAP4K4/NF-kappaB signaling pathway.
PXD051121	39114447	Oxidative stress mediates nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of KPNA2 via AKT1-CDK1 axis-regulated S62 phosphorylation. 	Identification and quantification of KPNA2 phosphorylation and interactome in response to hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative stress	KPNA2, NPM1, SILAC, hydrogen peroxide, phosphorylation	Karyopherin alpha 2 (KPNA2, importin alpha1), a transport factor shuttling between the nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments, is involved in the nuclear import of proteins and participates in cellular processes such as cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, and transcriptional regulation. However, it is still unclear which signaling regulates the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of KPNA2 in response to cellular stress. In this study, we report that oxidative stress increases nuclear retention of KPNA2 through alpha serine/threonine-protein kinase (AKT1)-mediated reduction of serine 62 (S62) phosphorylation. We first found that AKT1 activation was required for H2O2-induced nuclear accumulation of KPNA2. Immunoprecipitation and quantitative proteomic analysis revealed that the phosphorylation of KPNA2 at S62 was decreased under H2O2-induced oxidative stress. We showed that cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), a kinase responsible for KPNA2 S62 phosphorylation, contributes to the localization of KPNA2 in the cytoplasm. AKT1 knockdown increased KPNA2 S62 phosphorylation and inhibited CDK1 activation. Furthermore, H2O2-induced AKT1 activation promoted nuclear KPNA2 interaction with nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1), resulting in attenuation of NPM1-mediated cyclin D1 gene transcription. Thus, we infer that the AKT1-CDK1 axis regulates the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and function of KPNA2 through spatiotemporal regulation of KPNA2 S62 phosphorylation under oxidative stress conditions.
PXD053985	39114650	Evaluation of the potential food allergy risks of human lactoferrin expressed in Komagataella phaffii. 	Proteomic analysis of rhLF expressed in Komagataella phaffii	allerg*, lactoferrin	Introduction: Prior to the introduction of novel food ingredients into the food supply, safety risk assessments are required, and numerous prediction models have been developed and validated to evaluate safety. Methods: The allergenic risk potential of Helaina recombinant human lactoferrin (rhLF, Effera(TM)), produced in Komagataella phaffii (K. phaffii) was assessed by literature search, bioinformatics sequence comparisons to known allergens, glycan allergenicity assessment, and a simulated pepsin digestion model. Results: The literature search identified no allergenic risk for Helaina rhLF, K. phaffii, or its glycans. Bioinformatics search strategies showed no significant risk for cross-reactivity or allergenicity between rhLF or the 36 residual host proteins and known human allergens. Helaina rhLF was also rapidly digested in simulated gastric fluid and its digestibility profile was comparable to human milk lactoferrin (hmLF), further demonstrating a low allergenic risk and similarity to the hmLF protein. Conclusion: Collectively, these results demonstrate a low allergenic risk potential of Helaina rhLF and do not indicate the need for further clinical testing or serum IgE binding to evaluate Helaina rhLF for risk of food allergy prior to introduction into the food supply.
PXD048971	39115224	Identification of whole-cell dsRNA-binding proteins by phase separation. 	Identification of whole-cell dsRNA-binding proteins by phase separation	Armadillo/beta-catenin-like repeats, dsRNA-binding domain, dsRNA-binding protein capture, dsRNA-binding proteins, dsRNA-binding proteome	Interactions between double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) and proteins play an important role in cellular homeostasis by regulating the editing, stability, and splicing of intracellular RNA. The identification of dsRNA-binding proteins (dsRBPs) is key; however, it has long been challenging to purify dsRBPs from cells. In this study, we developed a novel method, dsRBPC (dsRNA-binding protein capture), to purify cellular dsRBPs based on classic phase separation purification procedures. A global dsRNA-binding proteome of LLC-PK1 cells was obtained, and we identified 1326 dsRBPs, including 1303 putative novel dsRBPs. Functional analyses suggested that these enriched dsRBPs are mainly associated with rRNA processing, RNA splicing, transcriptional regulation, and nucleocytoplasmic transport. We also found that the ARM (armadillo/beta-catenin-like repeats) motif is a previously unknown dsRNA-binding domain, as demonstrated by biochemical experiments. Collectively, this study provides a useful approach for dsRBP identification and the discovery of a global dsRNA-binding proteome to comprehensively map the dsRNA - protein interaction network.
PXD050639	39116204	Nuclear HMGB1 is critical for CD8 T cell IFN-gamma production and anti-tumor immunity. 	Nuclear HMGB1 is critical for CD8 T cell IFN-g production and anti-tumor immunity	CD8 T cell, Eomes, HMGB1, IFN-g, Tumor	HMGB1 (high-mobility group box-1) has been extensively studied as a damage-associated molecular pattern, with secreted cytokine function. However, its regulation on T cells, especially the function in the nucleus, has not been elucidated. Here, we use conditional knockout (HMGB1-f/f; CD2-cre) mice and find that HMGB1 potentiates the proliferation and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) expression of CD8 T cells rather than CD4 T cells. Notably, nuclear, but not secreted, HMGB1 supports the expression of IFN-gamma in CD8 T cells via directly regulating the activity of Eomes, the transcription factor for IFN-gamma. Functional study shows that HMGB1 promotes the anti-tumor ability of CD8 T cells in vitro and in vivo. Finally, tumor environmental interleukin-7 promotes HMGB1 and IFN-gamma production via fatty acid oxidation in CD8 T cells. Overall, we identify the role of nuclear HMGB1 in CD8 T cell differentiation and demonstrate that it plays an important role in the anti-tumor programs of CD8 T cells.
PXD048967	39116550	Molecular signatures of Haemonchus contortus infection in sheep: A comparative serum proteomic study on susceptible and resistant sheep breeds. 	Molecular signatures of Haemonchus contortus infection in sheep: a serum proteomics study on susceptible and tolerant sheep breeds	Dorper, Haemonchus contortus, Santa Ins, host resistance, sheep	Due to the negative impact of Haemonchus contortus in the tropics and subtropics, the detection of serum protein profiles that occur in infected sheep is of high relevance for targeted selective treatment strategies (TST). Herein, we integrated proteomics with phenotypic traits to elucidate physiological mechanisms associated to H. contortus infection in susceptible (Dorper - D) and resistant (Santa Ines - S) sheep breeds. Naive female lambs were infected with H. contortus third-stage larvae on day zero (D0), and samples were collected weekly, for 28 days. Feces were used for individual fecal egg counts (FEC) blood for packed cell volume (PCV) and serum for specific antibody quantification through ELISA. Sera was collected on D0 (-) and D21 (+), and analyzed using a LC-MS/MS based proteomics approach. FEC, PCV, and anti-H. contortus antibody levels confirmed the absence of infection on D0. On D28 there was a significant difference between the two breeds for logFEC means (D = 3774 and S = 3141, p=0.033) and PCV means (D = 16.3 % and S = 24.3 %, p=0.038). From a total of 754 proteins identified, 68 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were noted. Phosphopyruvate hydratase (ENO3) was a DAP in all comparisons, while S+ vs D+ and S- vs D- shared the highest number of DAPs (8). Each of the four experimental groups clustered separately in a principal component analysis (PCA) of protein profile. Among the DAPs, proteins associated with the innate and adaptive immune system were detected when comparing S- vs D- and S+ vs D+. In D-, some proteins were linked to stress response to handling, sampling and heat. Focusing on the consequences of infection in each breed, in the D+ vs D- comparison, upregulated proteins were associated with inflammation control and immune response, where downregulated proteins pointed to a negative impact of infection on tissue anabolism, compromising muscle growth and fat deposition. In the S+ vs S- comparison, upregulated proteins were related to immune response, while the downregulated proteins were possibly linked to muscular development and growth, impaired by infection. Collectively, it can be concluded that ENO3 regulation emerges as a potential factor underlying the differential immune response observed between Santa Ines and Dorper sheep infected with H. contortus. In turn, detected acute phase proteins (APPs) reinforce their relation with infection, inflammation and stress conditions, whereas THEMIS-like may contribute to the immune system in Dorper. GSDMD, Guanylate-binding protein and ACAN warrant further investigation as possible biomarkers for TST strategy development.
PXD044903	39116681	Mitochondrial proteome analysis reveals that an augmented cytochrome c oxidase assembly and activity potentiates respiratory capacity in sarcoma. 	Mitochondrial proteome analysis reveals that an augmented cytochrome c oxidase assembly and activity potentiates respiratory capacity in sarcoma	Sarcoma, and respiratory chain subunits, differential proteomics, mitochondria	Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) is an obligatory process in sarcoma. Despite that, the metabolic programming of sarcoma mitochondria is still unknown. To obtain a comprehensive metabolic insight of mitochondria, we developed a mouse fibrosarcoma model by injecting 3-methylcholanthrene and compared mitochondrial proteomes between sarcoma and its contralateral normal muscle using mass spectrometry. Our study identified ~449 proteins listed in the SwissProt databases, and all the data sets are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD044903. In sarcoma, 49 mitochondrial proteins were found differentially expressed, including 36 proteins up-regulated and 13 proteins down-regulated, with the significance of p-value <0.05 and the log2[fold change] > 1 and < -1 as compared to normal muscle. Our data revealed that various anaplerotic reactions actively replenish the TCA cycle in sarcoma. The comparative expression profile and Western blotting analysis of OXPHOS subunits showed that complex-IV subunits, MT-CO3 and COX6A1, were significantly up-regulated in sarcoma vs. normal muscle. Further, biochemical and physiological assays confirmed enhanced complex-IV specific enzymatic and supercomplex activities with a concomitant increase of oxygen consumption rate in sarcoma mitochondria compared to normal muscle. Validation with human post-operative sarcoma tissues also confirms an increased MT-CO3 expression compared to normal tissue counterparts. Thus, our data comprehensively analyses the mitochondrial proteome and identifies augmented complex-IV assembly and activity in sarcoma.
PXD054382	39116716	Bacterial infection-biased abundance of proteins in the skin mucus of obscure puffer (Takifugu Obscurus). 	Mucosal Immunity of Puffer Fish against bacterial Infection	Bacterial Infection., Immune response, Pufferfish, Skin mucus	The skin mucus of fish is equipped with immunological and antimicrobial peptides that confer protection against invading pathogens. The skin mucus has been studied in fish however information regarding its immunological roles in bacterial infection is rare. This study highlighted the proteins and peptides in the skin mucus of Obscure puffer Takifugu obscurus that quantitatively altered against Aeromonas hydrophila infection. We infected the fish through bath immersion, intraperitonially, and treated with PBS (control) then compared the level of proteins in the skin mucus among the groups using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. The Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) based quantification showed that 4896 proteins were Deferentially Quantified Proteins (DQPs), based on 19,751 unique peptides. Of which 170 were depleted (decreased in abundance) and 69 were abundant in comparison of Bath Treated (BT) vs Control (C) groups. Similarly, 76 DQPs were depleted and 70 were abundant in comparison of Treated (T) vs BT groups. Further, 126 DQPs were depleted, and 34 were abundant in comparison to T vs C groups. The DQPs we report were mostly immunological and were involved in unique biological functions and pathways. The interesting protein we report, where some of the proteins are for the first time in fish, shows the protein-rich structure of the mucus of fish, which may act as a biomarker to be targeted for bacterial disease therapy in fish and ultimately hint to the way of making resistance in fish against bacterial pathogens.
PXD053438	39117622	Proximity labelling of pro-interleukin-1alpha reveals evolutionary conserved nuclear interactions. 	HeLa Pro-IL-1a TurboID LC-MS/MS	Pro-Interleukin-1 alpha, TurboID, biotin ligase proximity labelling, histone acetyl transferase, inflammation	Interleukin-1alpha is a suggested dual-function cytokine that diverged from interleukin-1beta in mammals potentially by acquiring additional biological roles that relate to highly conserved regions in the pro-domain of interleukin-1alpha, including a nuclear localisation sequence and histone acetyltransferase-binding domains. Why evolution modified pro-interleukin-1alpha's subcellular location and protein interactome, and how this shaped interleukin-1alpha's intracellular role, is unknown. Here we show that TurboID proximity labelling with pro-interleukin-1alpha suggests a nuclear role for pro-interleukin-1alpha that involves interaction with histone acetyltransferases, including EP300. We also identify and validate inactivating mutations in the pro-interleukin-1alpha nuclear localisation sequence of multiple mammalian species, including toothed whales, castorimorpha and marsupials. However, histone acetyltransferase-binding domains are conserved in those species that have lost pro-interleukin-1alpha nuclear localisation. Together, these data suggest that histone acetyltransferase binding and nuclear localisation occurred together, and that while some species lost the nuclear localisation sequence in their pro-interleukin-1alpha, histone acetyltransferase binding ability was maintained. The nuclear localisation sequence was lost from several distinct species at different evolutionary times, suggesting convergent evolution, and that the loss of the nuclear localisation sequence confers some important biological outcome.
PXD043413	39119893	Reduction of ribosomal expansion segments in yeast species of the Magnusiomyces/Saprochaete clade. 	Reduction of ribosomal expansion segments in yeast species of the Magnusiomyces/Saprochaete clade	Magnusiomyces, expansion segments, ribosomal RNA, ribosome	Ribosomes are ribonucleoprotein complexes highly conserved across all domains of life. The size differences of ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) can be mainly attributed to variable regions termed expansion segments (ESs) protruding out from the ribosomal surface. The ESs were found to be involved in a range of processes including ribosome biogenesis and maturation, translation, and co-translational protein modification. Here, we analyze the rRNAs of the yeasts from the Magnusiomyces/Saprochaete clade belonging to the basal lineages of the subphylum Saccharomycotina. We find that these yeasts are missing more than 400 nt from the 25S rRNA and 150 nt from the 18S rRNAs when compared to their canonical counterparts in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The missing regions mostly map to ESs, thus representing a shift toward a minimal rRNA structure. Despite the structural changes in rRNAs, we did not identify dramatic alterations of the ribosomal protein inventories. We also show that the size-reduced rRNAs are not limited to the species of the Magnusiomyces/Saprochaete clade, indicating that the shortening of ESs happened independently in several other lineages of the subphylum Saccharomycotina.
PXD054692	39120973	The divergent effects of G3BP orthologs on human stress granule assembly imply a centric role for the core protein interaction network. 	G3BP orthologs interactional network	G3BP network	Liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) mediated by G3BP1/2 proteins and non-translating mRNAs mediates stress granule (SG) assembly. We investigated the phylogenetic evolution of G3BP orthologs from unicellular yeast to mammals and identified both conserved and divergent features. The modular domain organization of G3BP orthologs is generally conserved. However, invertebrate orthologs displayed reduced capacity for SG assembly in human cells compared to vertebrate orthologs. We demonstrated that the protein-interaction network facilitated by the NTF2L domain is a crucial determinant of this specificity. The evolution of the G3BP1 network coincided with its exploitation by certain viruses, as evident from the interaction between viral proteins and G3BP orthologs in insects and vertebrates. We revealed the importance and divergence of the G3BP interaction network in human SG formation. Leveraging this network, we established a 7-component in vitro SG reconstitution system for quantitative studies. These findings highlight the significance of G3BP network divergence in the evolution of biological processes.
PXD051841	39121215	Cyclin F-EXO1 axis controls cell cycle-dependent execution of double-strand break repair. 	Cyclin F - EXO1 axis controls cell cycle dependent execution of double strand break repair	DNA damage repair, DNA damage response, DNA double strand breaks, EXO1, and cancer, cell cycle, cyclin F, ionising radiation, microhomology-mediated end joining, single strand annealing, ubiquitination	Ubiquitination is a crucial posttranslational modification required for the proper repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) induced by ionizing radiation (IR). DSBs are mainly repaired through homologous recombination (HR) when template DNA is present and nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ) in its absence. In addition, microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ) and single-strand annealing (SSA) provide backup DSBs repair pathways. However, the mechanisms controlling their use remain poorly understood. By using a high-resolution CRISPR screen of the ubiquitin system after IR, we systematically uncover genes required for cell survival and elucidate a critical role of the E3 ubiquitin ligase SCF(cyclin F) in cell cycle-dependent DSB repair. We show that SCF(cyclin F)-mediated EXO1 degradation prevents DNA end resection in mitosis, allowing MMEJ to take place. Moreover, we identify a conserved cyclin F recognition motif, distinct from the one used by other cyclins, with broad implications in cyclin specificity for cell cycle control.
PXD052316	39121224	A ubiquitin-specific, proximity-based labeling approach for the identification of ubiquitin ligase substrates. 	TRAF6 substrate profiling by Ub-BOD	BirA, HeLa, Ubiquitin	Over 600 E3 ligases in humans execute ubiquitination of specific target proteins in a spatiotemporal manner to elicit desired signaling effects. Here, we developed a ubiquitin-specific proximity-based labeling method to selectively biotinylate substrates of a given ubiquitin ligase. By fusing the biotin ligase BirA and an Avi-tag variant to the candidate E3 ligase and ubiquitin, respectively, we were able to specifically enrich bona fide substrates of a ligase using a one-step streptavidin pulldown under denaturing conditions. We applied our method, which we named Ub-POD, to the really interesting new gene (RING) E3 ligase RAD18 and identified proliferating cell nuclear antigen and several other critical players in the DNA damage repair pathway. Furthermore, we successfully applied Ub-POD to the RING ubiquitin ligase tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 and a U-box-type E3 ubiquitin ligase carboxyl terminus of Hsc70-interacting protein. We anticipate that our method could be widely adapted to all classes of ubiquitin ligases to identify substrates.
PXD053363	39122901	Afucosylated broadly neutralizing antibodies enhance clearance of HIV-1 infected cells through cell-mediated killing. 	Afucosylated broadly neutralizing antibodies enhance clearance of HIV-1 infected cells through NK cell mediated killing	HEK-293F cells, LC-MS, antibody glycosylation, monoclonal antibodies	Broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) targeting the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) have the capacity to delay viral rebound when administered to people with HIV-1 (PWH) during anti-retroviral therapy (ART) interruption. To further enhance the performance of bNAbs through their Fc effector functions, in particular NK cell-mediated killing of HIV-1 infected cells, we have produced a panel of glyco-engineered (afucosylated) bNAbs with enhanced affinity for Fc gamma receptor IIIa. These afucosylated anti-HIV-1 bNAbs enhance NK cell activation and degranulation compared to fucosylated counterparts even at low antigen density. NK cells from PWH expressing exhaustion markers PD-1 and TIGIT are activated in a similar fashion by afucosylated bNAbs as NK cell from HIV-1 negative individuals. Killing of HIV-1 infected cells is most effective with afucosylated bNAbs 2G12, N6, PGT151 and PGDM1400, whereas afucosylated PGT121 and non-neutralizing antibody A32 only induce minor NK cell-mediated killing. These data indicate that the approach angle and affinity of Abs influence the capacity to induce antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Thus, afucosylated bNAbs have the capacity to induce NK cell-mediated killing of infected cells, which warrants further investigation of afucosylated bNAb administration in vivo, aiming for reduction of the viral reservoir and ART free durable control.
PXD052220	39124625	Identification of Catecholamine and Drug Target alpha2A-Adrenoceptor in Human Testis and Human Testicular Peritubular Cells. 	Identification of a catecholamine- and drug-target, the alpha2A-adrenoceptor, in human testis and human testicular perit-ubular cells	Alpha-adrenoreceptor, clonidine, contraction, cytokines, human male fertility, human testis, inflammation, peritubular cell, sperm transport, testis	Background: Clonidine has been used in clinical medicine, e.g., to treat high blood pressure and other conditions. Animal studies have linked its use to impairments of male reproductive functions, and although only a few reports exist for the human species, such actions may exist in man as well. The underlying reasons and, specifically, possible actions of clonidine at the level of the testis are not known. Introduction: Clonidine is an agonist at the alpha2A-adrenoceptor (ADRA2A), which, as data bank mining indicated, is expressed by several cells of the human testis. The human testis and most of its cells are, however, not readily accessible to experimental testing. Cells from the peritubular wall compartment (human testicular peritubular cells; HTPCs) are the exception. Methods and Results: As shown by immunohistochemical/immunocytochemical and PCR techniques these cells express ADRA2A and retain expression upon isolation and culture. When tested over a concentration range (1-1000 microM) and 24 h, clonidine did not visibly affect HTPC morphology but significantly stimulated IL6 mRNA levels in a concentration-dependent manner. ELISA measurements of cell culture supernatants confirmed a stimulatory action of clonidine (10 microM) on secreted IL6. When examined in collagen gel contraction assays of HTPCs, clonidine (10 microM) exerted a slight relaxing action, while a proteomic study revealed that clonidine (10 microM) did not significantly change cellular protein abundance of HTPCs after 24 h (data available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD052220). Conclusion: Thus, ADRA2A-bearing cells in the human testis are targets for catecholamines and drugs such as clonidine. The results of this HTPCs-focused study only show the tip of the iceberg. It is likely that catecholamines/catecholaminergic drugs have the potential to interfere with human testicular functions.
PXD048361	39125036	Immunomodulatory, Antioxidant, and Potential Anticancer Activity of the Polysaccharides of the Fungus Fomitiporia chilensis. 	Immunomodulatory, antioxidant, and potential anticancer activity of the polysaccharides of the fungus Fomitiporia chilensis	Fomitiporia chilensis, HGF-1 cells, UHPLC-HRMS, polysaccharides	Fomitiporia species have aroused the interest of numerous investigations that reveal their biological activity and medicinal potential. The present investigation shows the antioxidant, anticancer, and immunomodulatory activity of acidic polysaccharides obtained from the fungus Fomitiporia chilensis. The acidic polysaccharides were obtained for acidic precipitation with 2% O-N-cetylpyridinium bromide. Chemical analysis was performed using FT-IR and GC-MS methods. The antioxidant capacity of acidic polysaccharides from F. chilensis was evaluated by scavenging free radicals with an ABTS assay. Macrophage proliferation and cytokine production assays were used to determine the immunomodulatory capacity of the polysaccharides. Anti-tumor and cytotoxicity activity was evaluated with an MTT assay in the U-937, HTC-116, and HGF-1 cell lines. The effect of polysaccharides on the cell cycle of the HCT-116 cell line was determined for flow cytometry. Fourier Transform-infrared characterization revealed characteristic absorption peaks for polysaccharides, whereas the GC-MS analysis detected three peaks corresponding to D-galactose, galacturonic acid, and D-glucose. The secreted TNF-alpha concentration was increased when the cell was treated with 2 mg mL(-1) polysaccharides, whereas the IL-6 concentration was increased with all of the evaluated polysaccharide concentrations. A cell cycle analysis of HTC-116 treated with polysaccharides evidenced that the acidic polysaccharides from F. chilensis induce an increase in the G0/G1 cell cycle phase, increasing the apoptotic cell percentage. Results from a proteomic analysis suggest that some of the molecular mechanisms involved in their antioxidant and cellular detoxifying effects and justify their traditional use in heart diseases. Proteomic data are available through ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD048361. The study on acidic polysaccharides from F. chilensis has unveiled their diverse biological activities, including antioxidant, anticancer, and immunomodulatory effects. These findings underscore the promising therapeutic applications of acidic polysaccharides from F. chilensis, warranting further pharmaceutical and medicinal research exploration.
PXD052896	39125590	Proteomic Analysis of Rap1A GTPase Signaling-Deficient C57BL/6 Mouse Pancreas and Functional Studies Identify an Essential Role of Rap1A in Pancreas Physiology. 	Proteomic Analysis of Rap1A GTPase Signaling-Deficient C57BL/6 Mouse Pancreas and Functional Studies Identify an Essential Role of Rap1A in Pancreas Physiology	Differential expression, Ero1lbeta expression, Gene knockout, Intracellular signaling, Pancreas, Rap1A-GTPase, glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, insulin tolerance test, nanoLC-ESIMS/MS, oral glucose tolerance test	Ras-related Rap1A GTPase is implicated in pancreas beta-cell insulin secretion and is stimulated by the cAMP sensor Epac2, a guanine exchange factor and activator of Rap1 GTPase. In this study, we examined the differential proteomic profiles of pancreata from C57BL/6 Rap1A-deficient (Null) and control wild-type (WT) mice with nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS to assess targets of Rap1A potentially involved in insulin regulation. We identified 77 overlapping identifier proteins in both groups, with 8 distinct identifier proteins in Null versus 56 distinct identifier proteins in WT mice pancreata. Functional enrichment analysis showed four of the eight Null unique proteins, ERO1-like protein beta (Ero1lbeta), triosephosphate isomerase (TP1), 14-3-3 protein gamma, and kallikrein-1, were exclusively involved in insulin biogenesis, with roles in insulin metabolism. Specifically, the mRNA expression of Ero1lbeta and TP1 was significantly (p < 0.05) increased in Null versus WT pancreata. Rap1A deficiency significantly affected glucose tolerance during the first 15-30 min of glucose challenge but showed no impact on insulin sensitivity. Ex vivo glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) studies on isolated Null islets showed significantly impaired GSIS. Furthermore, in GSIS-impaired islets, the cAMP-Epac2-Rap1A pathway was significantly compromised compared to the WT. Altogether, these studies underscore an essential role of Rap1A GTPase in pancreas physiological function.
PXD058235	39126118	CRKL Enhances YAP Signaling through Binding and JNK/JUN Pathway Activation in Liver Cancer. 	CRKL enhances YAP signaling through binding and JNK/JUN pathway activation in liver cancer	AP1, BioID, CRK, HCC, Hippo, MS, TEAD, c-Jun, survival	The Hippo pathway transducers yes-associated protein (YAP) and WW-domain containing transcription regulator 1 (WWTR1/TAZ) are key regulators of liver tumorigenesis, promoting tumor formation and progression. Although the first inhibitors are in clinical trials, targeting the relevant upstream regulators of YAP/TAZ activity could prove equally beneficial. To identify regulators of YAP/TAZ activity in hepatocarcinoma (HCC) cells, we carried out a proximity labelling approach (BioID) coupled with mass spectrometry. We verified CRK-like proto-oncogene adaptor protein (CRKL) as a new YAP-exclusive interaction partner. CRKL is highly expressed in HCC patients, and its expression is associated with YAP activity as well as poor survival prognosis. In vitro experiments demonstrated CRKL-dependent cell survival and the loss of YAP binding induced through actin disruption. Moreover, we delineated the activation of the JNK/JUN pathway by CRKL, which promoted YAP transcription. Our data illustrate that CRKL not only promoted YAP activity through its binding but also through the induction of YAP transcription by JNK/JUN activation. This emphasizes the potential use of targeting the JNK/JUN pathway to suppress YAP expression in HCC patients.
PXD050841	39126373	Multi-omics analyses reveal aberrant differentiation trajectory with WNT1 loss-of-function in type XV osteogenesis imperfecta. 	Multi-Omic analyses reveal aberrant differentiation trajectory with WNT1 Loss-of-Function in type XV osteogenesis imperfecta	Osteogenesis imperfecta, bone	Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a group of severe genetic bone disorders characterized by congenital low bone mass, deformity and frequent fractures. Type XV OI is a moderate to severe form of skeletal dysplasia caused by WNT1 variants. In this cohort study from southern China, we summarized the clinical phenotypes of patients with WNT1 variants and found that the proportion of type XV patients was around 10.3% (25 out of 243) with a diverse spectrum of phenotypes. Functional assays indicated that variants of WNT1 significantly impaired its secretion and effective activity, leading to moderate to severe clinical manifestations, porous bone structure and enhanced osteoclastic activities. Analysis of proteomic data from human skeleton indicated that the expression of SOST was dramatically reduced in type XV patients when comparing to the patients with COL1A1 quantitative variants. Single-cell transcriptome data generated from the human tibia samples of patients diagnosed with type XV OI and leg-length-discrepancy respectively, revealed aberrant differentiation trajectory of skeletal progenitors and impaired maturation of osteocytes with loss of WNT1, resulting in excessive CXCL12+ progenitors, fewer mature osteocytes and existence of abnormal cell populations with adipogenic characteristics. The integration of multi-omics data from human skeleton delineates how WNT1 regulates the differentiation and maturation of skeletal progenitors, which will provide a new direction for the treatment strategy of type XV osteogenesis imperfecta and relative low bone mass diseases such as early onset osteoporosis.
PXD040122	39126856	Polyhexamethylene guanidine aerosol causes irreversible changes in blood proteins that associated with the severity of lung injury. 	Polyhexamethylene guanidine aerosol causes irreversible changes in blood proteins that associated with the severity of lung injury	Disinfectants, Human Plasma, SWATH-MS, chemically-induced disorders, lung injury	Polyhexamethylene guanidine (PHMG) is a positively charged polymer used as a disinfectant that kills microbes but can cause pulmonary fibrosis if inhaled. After the long-term risks were confirmed in South Korea, it became crucial to measure toxicity through diverse surrogate biomarkers, not only proteins, especially after these hazardous chemicals had cleared from the body. These biomarkers, identified by their biological functions rather than simple numerical calculations, effectively explained the imbalance of pulmonary surfactant caused by fibrosis from PHMG exposure. These long-term studies on children exposed to PHMG has shown that blood protein indicators, primarily related to apolipoproteins and extracellular matrix, can distinguish the degree of exposure to humidifier disinfectants (HDs). We defined the extreme gradient boosting models and computed reflection scores based on just ten selected proteins, which were also verified in adult women exposed to HD. The reflection scores successfully discriminated between the HD-exposed and unexposed groups in both children and adult females (AUROC: 0.957 and 0.974, respectively) and had a strong negative correlation with lung function indicators. Even after an average of more than 10 years, blood is still considered a meaningful specimen for assessing the impact of environmental exposure to toxic substances, with proteins providing in identifying the pathological severity of such conditions.
PXD038572	39127175	Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen EBNA3A modulates IRF3-dependent IFNbeta expression. 	EBV latent nuclear antigen EBNA3A modulates IRF3-dependent IFNbeta expression	Herpesvirus, IFN I, IRF3, P300, immune evasion, proximity labeling, viral immunology, viral protein	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis, persistently infects over 90% of the human adult population and is associated with several human cancers. To establish life-long infection, EBV tampers with the induction of type I interferon (IFN I)-dependent antiviral immunity in the host. How various EBV genes help orchestrate this crucial strategy is incompletely defined. Here, we reveal a mechanism by which the EBV nuclear antigen 3A (EBNA3A) may inhibit IFNbeta induction. Using proximity biotinylation we identify the histone acetyltransferase P300, a member of the IFNbeta transcriptional complex, as a binding partner of EBNA3A. We further show that EBNA3A also interacts with the activated IFN-inducing transcription factor IRF3 that collaborates with P300 in the nucleus. Both events are mediated by the N-terminal domain of EBNA3A. We propose that EBNA3A limits binding of IRF3 to the IFNbeta promoter, thereby hampering downstream IFN I signaling. Collectively, our findings suggest a new mechanism of immune evasion by EBV, affected by its latency gene EBNA3A.
PXD052563	39128846	In search of the pH limit of growth in halo-alkaliphilic cyanobacteria. 	In serach of the pH limit of growth in halo-alkaliphilic cyanobacteria	Ca. Sodalinema alkaliphilum, Nodosilinea, alkaline soda lakes, chemostat, extremophile, halo-alkaliphilic cyanobacteria, pH limit	Cyanobacteria have many biotechnological applications. Increasing their cultivation pH can assist in capturing carbon dioxide and avoiding invasion by other organisms. However, alkaline media may have adverse effects on cyanobacteria, such as reducing the Carbon-Concentrating Mechanism's efficiency. Here, we cultivated two halo-alkaliphilic cyanobacteria consortia in chemostats at pH 10.2-11.4. One consortium was dominated by Ca. Sodalinema alkaliphilum, the other by a species of Nodosilinea. These two cyanobacteria dominate natural communities in Canadian and Asian alkaline soda lakes. We show that increasing the pH decreased biomass yield. This decrease was caused, in part, by a dramatic increase in carbon transfer to heterotrophs. At pH 11.4, cyanobacterial growth became limited by bicarbonate uptake, which was mainly ATP dependent. In parallel, the higher the pH, the more sensitive cyanobacteria became to light, resulting in photoinhibition and upregulation of DNA repair systems.
PXD046741	39128851	AP3B1 facilitates PDIA3/ERP57 function to regulate rabies virus glycoprotein selective degradation and viral entry. 	LC-MS of rabies virus glycoproteins in human cells	AS-MS, glycoprotein, rabies virus	Rabies virus causes an estimated 59,000 annual fatalities worldwide and promising therapeutic treatments are necessary to develop. In this study, affinity tag-purification mass spectrometry was employed to delineate RABV glycoprotein and host protein interactions, and PDIA3/ERP57 was identified as a potential inhibitor of RABV infection. PDIA3 restricted RABV infection with follow mechanisms: PDIA3 mediated the degradation of RABV G protein by targeting lysine 332 via the selective macroautophagy/autophagy pathway; The PDIA3 interactor, AP3B1 (adaptor related protein complex 3 subunit beta 1) was indispensable in PDIA3-triggered selective degradation of the G protein; Furthermore, PDIA3 competitively bound with NCAM1/NCAM (neural cell adhesion molecule 1) to block RABV G, hindering viral entry into host cells. PDIA3 190-199 aa residues bound to the RABV G protein were necessary and sufficient to defend against RABV. These results demonstrated the therapeutic potential of biologics that target PDIA3 or utilize PDIA3 190-199 aa peptide to treat clinical rabies.
PXD037189	39129206	PITX2 deficiency leads to atrial mitochondrial dysfunction. 	PITX2 defiency identifies changes in sarcomere structure and mitochondrial dysfunktion as substrates for atrial fibrillation	PITX" knockout, cardiomyocytes, stem cell	AIM: Reduced left atrial PITX2 is associated with atrial cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation. PITX2 is restricted to left atrial cardiomyocytes in the adult heart. The links between PITX2 deficiency, atrial cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation are not fully understood. METHODS AND RESULTS: To identify mechanisms linking PITX2 deficiency to atrial fibrillation, we generated and characterized PITX2-deficient human atrial cardiomyocytes derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) and their controls. PITX2-deficient hiPSC-derived atrial cardiomyocytes showed shorter and disorganised sarcomeres and increased mononucleation. Electron microscopy found an increased number of smaller mitochondria compared to the control. Mitochondrial protein expression was altered in PITX2-deficient hiPSC-derived atrial cardiomyocytes. Single-nuclear RNA-sequencing found differences in cellular respiration pathways and differentially expressed mitochondrial and ion channel genes in PITX2-deficient hiPSC-derived atrial cardiomyocytes. PITX2 repression in hiPSC-derived atrial cardiomyocytes replicated dysregulation of cellular respiration. Mitochondrial respiration was shifted to increased glycolysis in PITX2-deficient hiPSC-derived atrial cardiomyocytes. PITX2-deficient human hiPSC-derived atrial cardiomyocytes showed higher spontaneous beating rates. Action potential duration was more variable with an overall prolongation of early repolarization, consistent with metabolic defects. Gene expression analyses confirmed changes in mitochondrial genes in left atria from 42 patients with atrial fibrillation compared to 43 patients in sinus rhythm. Dysregulation of left atrial mitochondrial (COX7C) and metabolic (FOXO1) genes was associated with PITX2 expression in human left atria. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, PITX2 deficiency causes mitochondrial dysfunction and a metabolic shift to glycolysis in human atrial cardiomyocytes. PITX2-dependent metabolic changes can contribute to the structural and functional defects found in PITX2-deficient atria.
PXD056333	39129585	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of a Haematococcus pluvialis (Chlorophyceae) mutant with a higher heterotrophic cell division rate reveals altered pathways involved in cell proliferation and nutrient partitioning. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of a Haematococcus pluvialis (Chlorophyceae) mutant with a higher heterotrophic cell division rate reveals altered pathways involved in cell proliferation and nutrient partitioning	Cell cycle control, chlorophyll biosynthesis, heterotrophy, phosphoproteomics, post-translational modification	Haematococcus pluvialis has been used to produce the ketocarotenoid antioxidant, astaxanthin. Currently, heterotrophic cultivation of H. pluvialis is limited by slow growth rates. This work aimed to address this challenge by exploring the mechanisms of acetate metabolism in Haematococcus. Chemical mutagenesis and screening identified H. pluvialis strain KREMS 23D-3 that achieved up to a 34.9% higher cell density than the wild type when grown heterotrophically on acetate. An integrative proteomics and phosphoproteomics approach was employed to quantify 4955 proteins and 5099 phosphorylation sites from 2505 phosphoproteins in the wild-type and mutant strains of H. pluvialis. Among them, 12 proteins were significantly upregulated and 22 significantly downregulated in the mutant while phosphoproteomic analysis identified 143 significantly upregulated phosphorylation sites on 106 proteins and 130 downregulated phosphorylation sites on 114 proteins. Upregulation of anaphase-promoting complex phosphoproteins and downregulation of a putative cell cycle division 20 phosphoprotein in the mutant suggests rapid mitotic progression, coinciding with higher cell division rates. Upregulated coproporphyrinogen oxidase and phosphorylated magnesium chelatase in the mutant demonstrated altered nitrogen partitioning toward chlorophyll biosynthesis. The large proportion of differentially expressed phosphoproteins suggests phosphorylation is a key regulator for protein expression and activity in Haematococcus. Taken together, this study reveals the regulation of interrelated acetate metabolic pathways in H. pluvialis and provides protein targets that may guide future strain engineering work.
PXD053186	39130371	Comprehensive proteomic characterization of urethral stricture disease in the Chinese population. 	Comprehensive Proteomic Characterization of Scar Formation in Urethral Stricture Disease	USD, immune infiltration, scar formation, therapeutic targets	Background: Male urethral stricture disease (USD) is predominantly characterized by scar formation. There are few effective therapeutic drugs, and comprehensive molecular characterizations of USD formation remain undefined. Methods: The proteomic profiling of twelve scar tissues and five matched normal adjacent tissues (NATs). Proteomic analysis methods were applied to explore the molecular characterizations of USD formation, including uncovering mechanistic pathways and providing novel biomarkers for scar formation. Results: Comparative proteomic analysis showed that the extracellular matrix (ECM) and complement cascade signaling were predominant in scar tissues. COL11A1 and CD248 significantly contributed to the accumulation of ECM components. Our study presented diverse molecular mechanisms of scar formation across different ages and suggested the potential effects of PXK in Age 1 (<45) patients. Furthermore, immune infiltration studies indicated the therapeutic potential of inhibiting the complement system (C4A, C4B) in Age 2 (>=45) patients, providing a potential clinical strategy for USD. Conclusion: This study illustrated the pathogenesis of USD formation and the diverse characteristics of USD patients with different ages, enhancing our understanding of the disease's pathogenesis and providing a valuable resource for USD treatment.
PXD051462	39130597	Proteomics Analysis Provides Insights into the Role of Lipid Metabolism in T2DM-Related Sarcopenia. 	Proteomics analysis reveals insights into the role of lipid metabolism in T2DM-related sarcopenia	T2DM-related sarcopenia, diabetes mellitus, fatty acid oxidation, lipid metabolism, sarcopenia	Sarcopenia has been recognized as an emerging complication of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Currently, the pathogenesis of T2DM-related sarcopenia remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets for T2DM-related sarcopenia. In this study, a T2DM-related sarcopenia mouse model was established using db/db mice. Proteins extracted from the gastrocnemius muscles of db/db mice and littermate control db/m mice were analyzed by a 4D label-free quantitative proteomics approach. A total of 131 upregulated and 68 downregulated proteins were identified as differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Bioinformatics analysis revealed that DEPs were significantly enriched in lipid metabolism. Protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed that six hub proteins, including ACOX1, CPT2, ECI2, ACADVL, ACADL, and ECH1, were involved in the fatty acid oxidation. The hub protein-transcription factor-miRNA network was also constructed using the NetworkAnalyst tool. Finally, the hub proteins were validated by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry and further confirmed to be significantly negatively correlated with muscle mass and grip strength. Our study suggested that lipid metabolism, especially excessive fatty acid oxidation, may be a crucial contributor to the progression of T2DM-related sarcopenia and a common cause of the inter-relationship between T2DM and sarcopenia. Targeting lipid metabolism may be a promising therapeutic strategy for T2DM-related sarcopenia.
PXD051233	39134391	External validation of serum biomarkers predicting short-term and mid/long-term relapse in patients with Crohn's disease stopping infliximab. 	External validation of serum biomarkers predicting short-term and mid/long-term relapse in Crohn's disease patients stopping infliximab	Crohn's disease, biomarkers, infliximab withdrawal, relapse prediction	OBJECTIVE: In patients with Crohn's disease (CD) on combination therapy (infliximab and immunosuppressant) and stopping infliximab (cohort from the study of infliximab diSconTinuation in CrOhn's disease patients in stable Remission on combined therapy with Immunosuppressors (STORI)), the risk of short-term (<=6 months) and mid/long-term relapse (>6 months) was associated with distinct blood protein profiles. Our aim was to test the external validity of this finding in the SPARE cohort (A proSpective Randomized Controlled Trial comParing infliximAb-antimetabolites Combination Therapy to Anti-metabolites monotheRapy and Infliximab monothErapy in Crohn's Disease Patients in Sustained Steroid-free Remission on Combination Therapy). DESIGN: In SPARE, patients with CD in sustained steroid-free clinical remission and on combination therapy were randomly allocated to three arms: continuing combination therapy, stopping infliximab or stopping immunosuppressant. In the baseline serum of the STORI and SPARE (arm stopping infliximab) cohorts, we studied 202 immune-related proteins. The proteins associated with time to relapse (univariable Cox model) were compared between STORI and SPARE. The discriminative ability of biomarkers (individually and combined in pairs) was evaluated by the c-statistic (concordance analysis) which was compared with C-reactive protein (CRP), faecal calprotectin and a previously validated model (CEASE). RESULTS: In STORI and SPARE, distinct blood protein profiles were associated with the risk of short-term (eg, high level: CRP, haptoglobin, interleukin-6, C-type lectin domain family 4 member C) and mid/long-term relapse (eg, low level: Fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand, kallistatin, fibroblast growth factor 2). At external validation, the top 10 biomarker pairs showed a higher c-statistic than the CEASE model, CRP and faecal calprotectin in predicting short-term (0.76-0.80 vs 0.74 vs 0.71 vs 0.69, respectively) and mid/long-term relapse (0.66-0.68 vs 0.61 vs 0.52 vs 0.59, respectively). CONCLUSION: In patients with CD stopping infliximab, we confirm that the risk of short-term and mid/long-term relapse is associated with distinct blood protein profiles showing the potential to guide infliximab withdrawal. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT00571337 and NCT02177071.
PXD052529	39134528	SLC17A1/3 transporters mediate renal excretion of Lac-Phe in mice and humans. 	Changes in the serum proteome profile of patients with neuroborreliosis, foresters, and patients after ILADS therapy	ILADS, foresters, neuroborreliosis	N-lactoyl-phenylalanine (Lac-Phe) is a lactate-derived metabolite that suppresses food intake and body weight. Little is known about the mechanisms that mediate Lac-Phe transport across cell membranes. Here we identify SLC17A1 and SLC17A3, two kidney-restricted plasma membrane-localized solute carriers, as physiologic urine Lac-Phe transporters. In cell culture, SLC17A1/3 exhibit high Lac-Phe efflux activity. In humans, levels of Lac-Phe in urine exhibit a strong genetic association with the SLC17A1-4 locus. Urine Lac-Phe levels are increased following a Wingate sprint test. In mice, genetic ablation of either SLC17A1 or SLC17A3 reduces urine Lac-Phe levels. Despite these differences, both knockout strains have normal blood Lac-Phe and body weights, demonstrating SLC17A1/3-dependent de-coupling of urine and plasma Lac-Phe pools. Together, these data establish SLC17A1/3 family members as the physiologic urine Lac-Phe transporters and uncover a biochemical pathway for the renal excretion of this signaling metabolite.
PXD051726	39136142	Targeting Neuraminidase 4 Attenuates Kidney Fibrosis in Mice. 	Targeting Neuraminidase 4 Attenuates Kidney Fibrosis in Mice	3, 3, 4-Heptamethoxyflavone, 5, 6, 7, 8, NEU4, YAP, renal fibrosis	Despite significant progress in therapy, there remains a lack of substantial evidence regarding the molecular factors that lead to renal fibrosis. Neuraminidase 4 (NEU4), an enzyme that removes sialic acids from glycoconjugates, has an unclear role in chronic progressive fibrosis. Here, this study finds that NEU4 expression is markedly upregulated in mouse fibrotic kidneys induced by folic acid or unilateral ureter obstruction, and this elevation is observed in patients with renal fibrosis. NEU4 knockdown specifically in the kidney attenuates the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, reduces the production of pro-fibrotic cytokines, and decreases cellular senescence in male mice. Conversely, NEU4 overexpression exacerbates the progression of renal fibrosis. Mechanistically, NEU4254-388aa interacts with Yes-associated protein (YAP) at WW2 domain (231-263aa), promoting its nucleus translocation and activation of target genes, thereby contributing to renal fibrosis. 3,5,6,7,8,3',4'-Heptamethoxyflavone, a natural compound, is identified as a novel NEU4 inhibitor, effectively protecting mice from renal fibrosis in a NEU4-dependent manner. Collectively, the findings suggest that NEU4 may represent a promising therapeutic target for kidney fibrosis.
PXD047783	39138067	Coxiella burnetii protein CBU2016 supports CCV expansion. 	Coxiella burnetii CBU2016 Proteomics	CBU2016. Coxiella burnetii	Coxiella burnetii is a globally distributed obligate intracellular pathogen. Although often asymptomatic, infections can cause acute Q fever with influenza-like symptoms and/or severe chronic Q fever. C. burnetii develops a unique replicative niche within host cells called the Coxiella-containing vacuole (CCV), facilitated by the Dot/Icm type IV secretion system translocating a cohort of bacterial effector proteins into the host. The role of some effectors has been elucidated; however, the actions of the majority remain enigmatic and the list of true effectors is disputable. This study examined CBU2016, a unique C. burnetii protein previously designated as an effector with a role in infection. We were unable to validate CBU2016 as a translocated effector protein. Employing targeted knock-out and complemented strains, we found that the loss of CBU2016 did not cause a replication defect within Hela, THP-1, J774, or iBMDM cells or in axenic media, nor did it affect the pathogenicity of C. burnetii in the Galleria mellonella infection model. Absence of CBU2016 did, however, result in a consistent decrease in the size of CCVs in HeLa cells. These results suggest that although CBU2016 may not be a Dot/Icm effector, it is still able to influence the host environment during infection.
PXD054095	39138551	Spatial multiomics reveals a subpopulation of fibroblasts associated with cancer stemness in human hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Spatial multiomics for liver cancer	liver cancer, spatial	BACKGROUND: Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are the prominent cell type in the tumor microenvironment (TME), and CAF subsets have been identified in various tumors. However, how CAFs spatially coordinate other cell populations within the liver TME to promote cancer progression remains unclear. METHODS: We combined multi-region proteomics (6 patients, 24 samples), 10X Genomics Visium spatial transcriptomics (11 patients, 25 samples), and multiplexed imaging (92 patients, 264 samples) technologies to decipher the expression heterogeneity, functional diversity, spatial distribution, colocalization, and interaction of fibroblasts. The newly identified CAF subpopulation was validated by cells isolated from 5 liver cancer patients and in vitro functional assays. RESULTS: We identified a liver CAF subpopulation, marked by the expression of COL1A2, COL4A1, COL4A2, CTGF, and FSTL1, and named F5-CAF. F5-CAF is preferentially located within and around tumor nests and colocalizes with cancer cells with higher stemness in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Multiplexed staining of 92 patients and the bulk transcriptome of 371 patients demonstrated that the abundance of F5-CAFs in HCC was associated with a worse prognosis. Further in vitro experiments showed that F5-CAFs isolated from liver cancer patients can promote the proliferation and stemness of HCC cells. CONCLUSIONS: We identified a CAF subpopulation F5-CAF in liver cancer, which is associated with cancer stemness and unfavorable prognosis. Our results provide potential mechanisms by which the CAF subset in the TME promotes the development of liver cancer by supporting the survival of cancer stem cells.
PXD053633	39140732	In vivo fitness of sul gene-dependent sulfonamide-resistant Escherichia coli in the mammalian gut. 	In vivo fitness of sul gene-dependent sulfonamide-resistant Escherichia coli in the mammalian gut	E. coli, Fitness cost, In vivo, Quantitative proteomic method, Sulfonamide resistance gene	The widespread sulfonamide resistance genes sul1, sul2, and sul3 in food and gut bacteria have attracted considerable attention. In this study, we assessed the in vivo fitness of sul gene-dependent sulfonamide-resistant Escherichia coli, using a murine model. High fitness costs were incurred for sul1 and sul3 gene-dependent E. coli strains in vivo. A fitness advantage was found in three of the eight mice after intragastric administration of sul2 gene-dependent E. coli strains. We isolated three compensatory mutant strains (CMSs) independently from three mice that outcompeted the parent strain P2 in vivo. Whole-genome sequencing revealed seven identical single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) mutations in the three CMSs compared with strain P2, an additional SNP mutation in strain S2-2, and two additional SNP mutations in strain S2-3. Furthermore, tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomic analysis revealed abundant differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the CMSs compared with P2. Of these, seven key fitness-related DEPs distributed in two-component systems, galactose and tryptophan metabolism pathways, were verified using parallel reaction monitoring analysis. The DEPs in the CMSs influenced bacterial motility, environmental stress tolerance, colonization ability, carbohydrate utilization, cell morphology maintenance, and chemotaxis to restore fitness costs and adapt to the mammalian gut environment.IMPORTANCESulfonamides are traditional synthetic antimicrobial agents used in clinical and veterinary medical settings. Their long-term excessive overuse has resulted in widespread microbial resistance, limiting their application for medical interventions. Resistance to sulfonamides is primarily conferred by the alternative genes sul1, sul2, and sul3 encoding dihydropteroate synthase in bacteria. Studying the potential fitness cost of these sul genes is crucial for understanding the evolution and transmission of sulfonamide-resistant bacteria. In vitro studies have been conducted on the fitness cost of sul genes in bacteria. In this study, we provide critical insights into bacterial adaptation and transmission using an in vivo approach.
PXD050245	39142443	Skin microdialysis detects distinct immunological patterns in chronic inflammatory skin diseases. 	Microdialysis analysis of common inflammatory skin diseases highlights abnormalities in nonlesional skin of patients with atopic dermatitis	Atopic Dermatitis, Microdialysis, Pruritus, Psoriasis vulgaris	BACKGROUND: Insight into the pathophysiology of inflammatory skin diseases, especially at the proteomic level, is severely hampered by the lack of adequate in situ data. OBJECTIVE: Characterize lesional and nonlesional skin of inflammatory skin diseases using skin microdialysis. METHODS: Skin microdialysis samples from patients with atopic dermatitis (AD, n=6), psoriasis vulgaris (PSO, n=7) or prurigo nodularis (PN, n=6), as well as healthy controls (n=7) were subjected to proteomics and multiplex cytokine analysis. Single-cell RNA sequencing of skin biopsy specimens was used to identify the cellular origin of cytokines. RESULTS: Among the top 20 enriched GO annotations, NAD metabolic process, regulation of secretion by cell, and pyruvate metabolic process were elevated in microdialysates from lesional AD skin compared with both nonlesional skin and controls. The top 20 enriched KEGG pathways in these three groups overlapped almost completely. In contrast, nonlesional skin from patients with PSO or PN and control skin showed no overlap with lesional skin in this KEGG pathway analysis. Lesional skin from patients with PSO, but not AD or PN, showed significantly elevated protein levels of MCP-1 compared to nonlesional skin. IL-8 was elevated in lesional vs nonlesional AD and PSO skin, whereas IL-12p40 and IL-22 were higher only in lesional PSO skin. Integrated single-cell RNA-seq data revealed identical cellular sources of these cytokines in AD, PSO and PN. CONCLUSION: Based on microdialysate, proteomic data of lesional PSO and PN skin, but not lesional AD skin, differed significantly from those of nonlesional skin. IL-8, IL-22, MCP-1 and IL-12p40 might be suitable markers for minimally invasive molecular profiling.
PXD054244	39142625	Proteomic characterization of the medial prefrontal cortex in chronic restraint stress mice. 	Proteomic characterization of the medial prefrontal cortex in chronic restraint stress mice	Autophagy, Depression, Synaptic plasticity	Depression is a prominent contributor to global disability. A growing body of data suggests that depression is associated with the pathophysiology of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Mice were subjected to chronic restraint stress (CRS) for 3 weeks to create depression models during this investigation. Protein tandem mass tag (TMT) quantification and LC-MS/MS analysis were conducted to examine proteome patterns. Afterwards, to further explore the enrichment of differential proteins and the signaling pathways involved, we annotated these differentially expressed proteins. We confirmed that CRS mice developed depression-like and anxiety-like behaviors. Among the 8081 measured proteins, a total of 15 proteins were found to be differentially expressed. These proteins exhibited functional enrichment in a variety of biological functions, and among these pathways, alterations in synaptic function and autophagy are noteworthy. In addition, we identified a differentially expressed protein called Wnt2b and found that CRS may disrupt synaptic plasticity by affecting the activation of the Wnt2b/beta-catenin pathway. Our findings showed depression-like behaviors in the CRS mouse model and molecular alterations in the mPFC, which may help explain the pathogenesis of depression and identify novel antidepressant medication targets. SIGNIFICANCE: Depression is a prevalent and frequent chronic mental illness and is now a significant contributor to global disability. In this study, we used chronic restraint stress to establish a mouse model of depression, and differentially expressed proteins in the medial prefrontal cortex of depressed model mice were detected by TMT proteomics. Our study verified the presence of altered synaptic function and excessive autophagy in the mPFC of CRS-induced mice from a proteomic perspective. Furthermore, we demonstrated that CRS may disrupt synaptic plasticity by affecting the activation of the Wnt2b/beta-catenin pathway, which may be a key link in the pathogenesis of depression and may provide new insights for identifying new antidepressant drug targets.
PXD043776	39143065	Branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 confers EGFR-TKI resistance through epigenetic glycolytic activation. 	BCAT1 Confers Resistance to EGFR TKIs through alpha-KG-dependent Epigenetic Regulation of the Glycolysis Pathway in NSCLC	BCAT1, Drug resistance, EGFR TKI, Glycolysis, alpha-KG	Third-generation EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), exemplified by osimertinib, have demonstrated promising clinical efficacy in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Our previous work has identified ASK120067 as a novel third-generation EGFR TKI with remarkable antitumor effects that has undergone New Drug Application (NDA) submission in China. Despite substantial progress, acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs remains a significant challenge, impeding the long-term effectiveness of therapeutic approaches. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive investigation utilizing high-throughput proteomics analysis on established TKI-resistant tumor models, and found a notable upregulation of branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 (BCAT1) expression in both osimertinib- and ASK120067-resistant tumors compared with the parental TKI-sensitive NSCLC tumors. Genetic depletion or pharmacological inhibition of BCAT1 impaired the growth of resistant cells and partially re-sensitized tumor cells to EGFR TKIs. Mechanistically, upregulated BCAT1 in resistant cells reprogrammed branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism and promoted alpha ketoglutarate (alpha-KG)-dependent demethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27) and subsequent transcriptional derepression of glycolysis-related genes, thereby enhancing glycolysis and promoting tumor progression. Moreover, we identified WQQ-345 as a novel BCAT1 inhibitor exhibiting antitumor activity both in vitro and in vivo against TKI-resistant lung cancer with high BCAT1 expression. In summary, our study highlighted the crucial role of BCAT1 in mediating resistance to third-generation EGFR-TKIs through epigenetic activation of glycolysis in NSCLC, thereby supporting BCAT1 as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of TKI-resistant NSCLC.
PXD039452	39143095	Lamin A/C deficiency-mediated ROS elevation contributes to pathogenic phenotypes of dilated cardiomyopathy in iPSC model. 	Proteome of patient-derived iPSC-CMs with LMNA mutation	iPSC-CMs	Mutations in the nuclear envelope (NE) protein lamin A/C (encoded by LMNA), cause a severe form of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) with early-onset life-threatening arrhythmias. However, molecular mechanisms underlying increased arrhythmogenesis in LMNA-related DCM (LMNA-DCM) remain largely unknown. Here we show that a frameshift mutation in LMNA causes abnormal Ca(2+) handling, arrhythmias and disformed NE in LMNA-DCM patient-specific iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs). Mechanistically, lamin A interacts with sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) where mutant lamin A/C accelerates degradation of SIRT1, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress. Elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) then activates the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)-ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2) pathway and aggravates the accumulation of SUN1 in mutant iPSC-CMs, contributing to arrhythmias and NE deformation, respectively. Taken together, the lamin A/C deficiency-mediated ROS disorder is revealed as central to LMNA-DCM development. Manipulation of impaired SIRT1 activity and excessive oxidative stress is a potential future therapeutic strategy for LMNA-DCM.
PXD045038	39143125	Proteomic profiling of Arabidopsis nuclei reveals distinct protein accumulation kinetics upon heat stress. 	Quantitative proteomic profiling of Arabidopsis nuclei reveals accumulation of nucleolar proteins after a prolonged heat stress	Heat stress, nanoLC-MSMS, nucleolus, nucleus	Heat stress (HS) impacts the nuclear proteome and, subsequently, protein activities in different nuclear compartments. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a short exposure to 37 degreesC leads to loss of the standard tripartite architecture of the nucleolus, the most prominent nuclear substructure, and, consequently, affects the assembly of ribosomes. Here, we report a quantitative label-free LC-MS/MS (Liquid Chromatography coupled to tandem Mass Spectrometry) analysis to determine the nuclear proteome of Arabidopsis at 22 degreesC, HS (37 degreesC for 4 and 24 h), and a recovery phase. This analysis identified ten distinct groups of proteins based on relative abundance changes in the nucleus before, during and after HS: Early, Late, Transient, Early Persistent, Late Persistent, Recovery, Early-Like, Late-Like, Transient-Like and Continuous Groups (EG, LG, TG, EPG, LPG, RG, ELG, LLG, TLG and CG, respectively). Interestingly, the RNA polymerase I subunit NRPA3 and other main nucleolar proteins, including NUCLEOLIN 1 and FIBRILLARIN 1 and 2, were detected in RG and CG, suggesting that plants require increased nucleolar activity and likely ribosome assembly to restore protein synthesis after HS.
PXD046458	39143240	Spatial control of the APC/C ensures the rapid degradation of cyclin B1. 	Spatial control of the APC/C ensures the rapid degradation of Cyclin B1	mitosis, spindle assembly checkpoint, ubiquitin-mediated degradation	The proper control of mitosis depends on the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of the right mitotic regulator at the right time. This is effected by the Anaphase Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C) ubiquitin ligase that is regulated by the Spindle Assembly Checkpoint (SAC). The SAC prevents the APC/C from recognising Cyclin B1, the essential anaphase and cytokinesis inhibitor, until all chromosomes are attached to the spindle. Once chromosomes are attached, Cyclin B1 is rapidly degraded to enable chromosome segregation and cytokinesis. We have a good understanding of how the SAC inhibits the APC/C, but relatively little is known about how the APC/C recognises Cyclin B1 as soon as the SAC is turned off. Here, by combining live-cell imaging, in vitro reconstitution biochemistry, and structural analysis by cryo-electron microscopy, we provide evidence that the rapid recognition of Cyclin B1 in metaphase requires spatial regulation of the APC/C. Using fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy, we find that Cyclin B1 and the APC/C primarily interact at the mitotic apparatus. We show that this is because Cyclin B1, like the APC/C, binds to nucleosomes, and identify an 'arginine-anchor' in the N-terminus as necessary and sufficient for binding to the nucleosome. Mutating the arginine anchor on Cyclin B1 reduces its interaction with the APC/C and delays its degradation: cells with the mutant, non-nucleosome-binding Cyclin B1 become aneuploid, demonstrating the physiological relevance of our findings. Together, our data demonstrate that mitotic chromosomes promote the efficient interaction between Cyclin B1 and the APC/C to ensure the timely degradation of Cyclin B1 and genomic stability.
PXD048723	39145448	Mouse sarcopenia model reveals sex- and age-specific differences in phenotypic and molecular characteristics. 	Mouse Skeletal Muscle Sarcopenia	DIA, aging, sarcopenia, skeletal muscle	Our study was to characterize sarcopenia in C57BL/6J mice using a clinically relevant definition to investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Aged male (23-32 months old) and female (27-28 months old) C57BL/6J mice were classified as non-, probable-, or sarcopenic based on assessments of grip strength, muscle mass, and treadmill running time, using 2 SDs below the mean of their young counterparts as cutoff points. A 9%-22% prevalence of sarcopenia was identified in 23-26 month-old male mice, with more severe age-related declines in muscle function than mass. Females aged 27-28 months showed fewer sarcopenic but more probable cases compared with the males. As sarcopenia progressed, a decrease in muscle contractility and a trend toward lower type IIB fiber size were observed in males. Mitochondrial biogenesis, oxidative capacity, and AMPK-autophagy signaling decreased as sarcopenia progressed in males, with pathways linked to mitochondrial metabolism positively correlated with muscle mass. No age- or sarcopenia-related changes were observed in mitochondrial biogenesis, OXPHOS complexes, AMPK signaling, mitophagy, or atrogenes in females. Our results highlight the different trajectories of age-related declines in muscle mass and function, providing insights into sex-dependent molecular changes associated with sarcopenia progression, which may inform the future development of novel therapeutic interventions.
PXD033039	39145956	CARD14 SIGNALOSOME FORMATION IS ASSOCIATED WITH ITS ENDOSOMAL RELOCATION AND mTORC1-INDUCED KERATINOCYTE PROLIFERATION. 	The CARD14WT/E138A interactome.	BCL10, CARD14, CARMA, MALT1, NF-kappaB, keratinocyte, psoriasis	Rare mutations in CARD14 promote psoriasis by inducing CARD14-BCL10-MALT1 complexes that activate NF-kB and MAP kinases. Here, the downstream signalling mechanism of the highly penetrant CARD14E138Aalteration is described. In addition to BCL10 and MALT1, CARD14E138A associated with several proteins important in innate immune signalling. Interactions with M1-specific ubiquitin E3 ligase HOIP, and K63-specific ubiquitin E3 ligase TRAF6 promoted BCL10 ubiquitination and were essential for NF-kB and MAP kinase activation. In contrast, the ubiquitin binding proteins A20 and ABIN1, both genetically associated with psoriasis development, negatively regulated signalling by inducing CARD14E138A turnover. CARD14E138A localized to early endosomes and was associated with the AP2 adaptor complex. AP2 function was required for CARD14E138A activation of mTOR complex 1, which stimulated keratinocyte metabolism, but not for NF-kB nor MAP kinase activation. Furthermore, rapamycin ameliorated CARD14E138A-induced keratinocyte proliferation and epidermal acanthosis in mice, suggesting that blocking mTORC1 may be therapeutically beneficial in CARD14-dependent psoriasis.
PXD050140	39146459	Use of Proteomics for Dietary Reconstruction: A Case Study Using Animal Teeth from Ancient Mesopotamia. 	Use of Proteomics for Dietary Reconstruction: a Case Study using Animal Teeth from Ancient Mesopotamia	Ancient Mesopotamia, Animal teeth proteomics, Dietary Reconstruction, Osteological animal, ProteomeXchange project tag: Skeletal Muscle Proteome (B/D-HPP)	This research examines animal teeth from Early Dynastic (2900-2350 BCE) Mesopotamia (Southern Iraq) to assess animal management practices and identify consumption patterns in animal diets. The objective to answer larger questions about food management and environmental resilience in ancient early complex societies in the Near East was achieved by the use of mass spectrometry-based proteomics for dietary reconstruction. Dietary MS, a revolutionary new methodology applying proteomics techniques to archeological sample sets to reconstruct ancient animal diet. A developed protein extraction technique followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry allowed for the identification of the specific plant species consumed in order to highlight variable herd management strategies, resource optimization, for each taxon over time. It also provided information about overall health and indications of disease. This is the first study to apply a full suite of analyses to the region and provides the foundations of a necessary long-term view of human interaction within an environment, through both time and space.
PXD048908	39146705	Non-antibiotic pharmaceutical phenylbutazone binding to MexR reduces the antibiotic susceptibility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Proteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa treated by non-antibiotic pharmaceutical	Antimicrobial resistance, Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Antimicrobial resistance has been an increasingly serious threat to global public health. The contribution of non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals to the development of antibiotic resistance has been overlooked. Our study found that the anti-inflammatory drug phenylbutazone could protect P. aeruginosa against antibiotic mediated killing by binding to the efflux pump regulator MexR. In this study, antibiotic activity against P. aeruginosa alone or in combination with phenylbutazone was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Resazurin accumulation assay, transcriptomic sequencing, and PISA assay were conducted to explore the underlying mechanism for the reduced antibiotic susceptibility caused by phenylbutazone. Then EMSA, ITC, molecular dynamic simulations, and amino acid substitutions were used to investigate the interactions between phenylbutazone and MexR. We found that phenylbutazone could reduce the susceptibility of P. aeruginosa to multiple antibiotics, including parts of beta-lactams, fluoroquinolones, tetracyclines, and macrolides. Phenylbutazone could directly bind to MexR, then promote MexR dissociating from the mexA-mexR intergenic region and de-repress the expression of MexAB-OprM efflux pump. The overexpressed MexAB-OprM pump resulted in the reduced antibiotic susceptibility. And the His41 and Arg21 residues of MexR were involved in the phenylbutazone-MexR interaction. We hope this study would imply the potential risk of antibiotic resistance caused by non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals.
PXD053163	39146936	Amelioration of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease by inhibiting the deubiquitylating enzyme RPN11. 	Amelioration of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease by inhibiting the deubiquitylating enzyme RPN11	Deubiquitination, Histone propionylation, N6-methyladenosine methylation, Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including its more severe manifestation nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), is a global public health challenge. Here, we explore the role of deubiquitinating enzyme RPN11 in NAFLD and NASH. Hepatocyte-specific RPN11 knockout mice are protected from diet-induced liver steatosis, insulin resistance, and steatohepatitis. Mechanistically, RPN11 deubiquitinates and stabilizes METTL3 to enhance the m6A modification and expression of acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetase short-chain family member 3 (ACSS3), which generates propionyl-CoA to upregulate lipid metabolism genes via histone propionylation. The RPN11-METTL3-ACSS3-histone propionylation pathway is activated in the livers of patients with NAFLD. Pharmacological inhibition of RPN11 by Capzimin ameliorated NAFLD, NASH, and related metabolic disorders in mice and reduced lipid contents in human hepatocytes cultured in 2D and 3D. These results demonstrate that RPN11 is a novel regulator of NAFLD/NASH and that suppressing RPN11 has therapeutic potential for the treatment.
PXD048918	39147275	HSP60 chaperone deficiency disrupts the mitochondrial matrix proteome and dysregulates cholesterol synthesis. 	Proteomics effects of HSP60 deficiency in HEK cells, using an inducible transgenic HSP60 ATPase deficient mutant.	HSP60 deficiency, chaperone, differential protein expression, mitochondria	OBJECTIVE: Mitochondrial proteostasis is critical for cellular function. The molecular chaperone HSP60 is essential for cell function and dysregulation of HSP60 expression has been implicated in cancer and diabetes. The few reported patients carrying HSP60 gene variants show neurodevelopmental delay and brain hypomyelination. Hsp60 interacts with more than 260 mitochondrial proteins but the mitochondrial proteins and functions affected by HSP60 deficiency are poorly characterized. METHODS: We studied two model systems for HSP60 deficiency: (1) engineered HEK cells carrying an inducible dominant negative HSP60 mutant protein, (2) zebrafish HSP60 knockout larvae. Both systems were analyzed by RNASeq, proteomics, and targeted metabolomics, and several functional assays relevant for the respective model. In addition, skin fibroblasts from patients with disease-associated HSP60 variants were analyzed by proteomics. RESULTS: We show that HSP60 deficiency leads to a differentially downregulated mitochondrial matrix proteome, transcriptional activation of stress responses, and dysregulated cholesterol biosynthesis. This leads to lipid accumulation in zebrafish knockout larvae. CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide a compendium of the effects of HSP60 deficiency on the mitochondrial matrix proteome. We show that HSP60 is a master regulator and modulator of mitochondrial functions and metabolic pathways. HSP60 dysfunction also affects cellular metabolism and disrupts the integrated stress response. The effect on cholesterol synthesis explains the effect of HSP60 dysfunction on myelination observed in patients carrying genetic variants of HSP60.
PXD047291	39147579	Chronic stress alters synaptic I/E balance of pyramidal neurons but not PV interneurons in the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices of C57BL/6J mice. 	Chronic stress alters the E/I balance of pyramidal neurons in the infralimbic and Prelimbic cortices	Chronic stress, E/I balance, Infralimbic Cortex, Prelimbic Cortex	The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) plays a pivotal role in regulating working memory, executive function, and self-regulatory behaviours. Dysfunction in mPFC circuits is a characteristic feature of several neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Chronic stress (CS) is widely recognized as a major triggering factor for the onset of these disorders. Although evidence suggests synaptic dysfunction in mPFC circuits following CS exposure, it remains unclear how different neuronal populations in the infralimbic (IL) and prelimbic (PL) cortices are affected in terms of synaptic inhibition-excitation balance (I/E ratio). Here, using neuroproteomics analysis and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in pyramidal neurons and parvalbumin interneurons (PV) within the PL and IL cortices, we examined the synaptic changes after 21 days of chronic unpredictable stress, in male mice. Our results reveal distinct impacts of CS on PL- and IL-pyramidal neurons, resulting in an increased I/E ratio in both subregions but through different mechanisms: CS increases inhibitory synaptic drive in the PL while decreasing excitatory synaptic drive in the IL. Notably, the I/E ratio and excitatory and inhibitory synaptic drive of PV interneurons remained unaffected in both PL and IL circuits following CS exposure. These findings offer novel mechanistic insights into the influence of CS on prefrontal cortex circuits and support the hypothesis of stress-induced mPFC hypofunction.Significance statement In unveiling distinct impacts of chronic stress on synaptic I/E ratio within the medial prefrontal cortex's infralimbic and prelimbic subregions, this study not only deepens our understanding of the intricate neurobiological responses to stress but also highlights a crucial factor in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. The differential modulation of I/E ratio in pyramidal neurons, coupled with the resilience of parvalbumin interneurons to chronic stress within these subregions, underscores a nuanced susceptibility of prefrontal circuits. These findings contribute vital mechanistic insights into stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders. Moreover, we are releasing a comprehensive proteomics dataset to the research community, providing a valuable resource for future studies aimed at exploring the molecular underpinnings of stress and its effects on neural circuits.
PXD042928	39152136	A protein O-GlcNAc glycosyltransferase regulates the antioxidative response in Yersinia pestis. 	Differentially expressed proteins between WT Y. pestis and hmwC	Y. pestis, hmwC	Post-translational addition of O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) to proteins is commonly associated with a variety of stress responses and cellular processes in eukaryotes, but its potential roles in bacteria are unclear. Here, we show that protein HmwC acts as an O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) responsible for O-GlcNAcylation of multiple proteins in Yersinia pestis, a flea-borne pathogen responsible for plague. We identify 64 O-GlcNAcylated proteins (comprising 65 sites) with differential abundance under conditions mimicking the mammalian host (Mh) and flea vector (Fv) environments. Deletion of hmwC, encoding a putative OGT, structurally distinct from any existing member of the GT41 family, results in reduced O-GlcNAcylation, reduced growth, and alterations in virulence properties and survival under stress. Purified HmwC can modify target proteins in vitro using UDP-GlcNAc as sugar donor. One of the target proteins, OsdY, promotes Y. pestis survival under oxidative stress conditions. Thus, our results support that regulation of antioxidative responses through O-GlcNAcylation may be a conserved process shared by prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
PXD052096	39152175	Region-selective and site-specific glycation of influenza proteins surrounding the viral envelope membrane. 	Region-selective and site-specific glycation of influenza proteins surrounding the viral envelope membrane	glycation, influenza vaccine	Analysis of protein modifications is critical for quality control of therapeutic biologics. However, the identification and quantification of naturally occurring glycation of membrane proteins by mass spectrometry remain technically challenging. We used highly sensitive LC MS/MS analyses combined with multiple enzyme digestions to determine low abundance early-stage lysine glycation products of influenza vaccines derived from embryonated chicken eggs and cultured cells. Straightforward sequencing was enhanced by MS/MS fragmentation of small peptides. As a result, we determined a widespread distribution of lysine modifications attributed by the region-selectivity and site-specificity of glycation toward influenza matrix 1, hemagglutinin and neuraminidase. Topological analysis provides insights into the site-specific lysine glycation, localizing in the distinct structural regions of proteins surrounding the viral envelope membrane. Our finding highlights the proteome-wide discovery of lysine glycation of influenza membrane proteins and potential effects on the structural assembly, stability, receptor binding and enzyme activity, demonstrating that the impacts of accumulated glycation on the quality of products can be directly monitored by mass spectrometry-based structural proteomics analyses.
PXD044992	39152196	Rhein targets macrophage SIRT2 to promote adipose tissue thermogenesis in obesity in mice. 	Acetylomics on rhein treated NLRP3 activated J774A.1 macrophages	NLRP3 inflammasome, Rhein, macrophage	Rhein, a component derived from rhubarb, has been proven to possess anti-inflammatory properties. Here, we show that rhein mitigates obesity by promoting adipose tissue thermogenesis in diet-induced obese mice. We construct a macrophage-adipocyte co-culture system and demonstrate that rhein promotes adipocyte thermogenesis through inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation in macrophages. Moreover, clues from acetylome analysis identify SIRT2 as a potential drug target of rhein. We further verify that rhein directly interacts with SIRT2 and inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation in a SIRT2-dependent way. Myeloid knockdown of SIRT2 abrogates adipose tissue thermogenesis and metabolic benefits in obese mice induced by rhein. Together, our findings elucidate that rhein inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation in macrophages by regulating SIRT2, and thus promotes white adipose tissue thermogenesis during obesity. These findings uncover the molecular mechanism underlying the anti-inflammatory and anti-obesity effects of rhein, and suggest that rhein may become a potential drug for treating obesity.
PXD053867	39152201	Mechanistic insights into a heterobifunctional degrader-induced PTPN2/N1 complex. 	HDX-MS analysis of PTPN2 with the CRBN/DDB1 complex	CRBN, DDB1, HDX-MS, PTPN2	PTPN2 (protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 2, or TC-PTP) and PTPN1 are attractive immuno-oncology targets, with the deletion of Ptpn1 and Ptpn2 improving response to immunotherapy in disease models. Targeted protein degradation has emerged as a promising approach to drug challenging targets including phosphatases. We developed potent PTPN2/N1 dual heterobifunctional degraders (Cmpd-1 and Cmpd-2) which facilitate efficient complex assembly with E3 ubiquitin ligase CRL4(CRBN), and mediate potent PTPN2/N1 degradation in cells and mice. To provide mechanistic insights into the cooperative complex formation introduced by degraders, we employed a combination of structural approaches. Our crystal structure reveals how PTPN2 is recognized by the tri-substituted thiophene moiety of the degrader. We further determined a high-resolution structure of DDB1-CRBN/Cmpd-1/PTPN2 using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM). This structure reveals that the degrader induces proximity between CRBN and PTPN2, albeit the large conformational heterogeneity of this ternary complex. The molecular dynamic (MD)-simulations constructed based on the cryo-EM structure exhibited a large rigid body movement of PTPN2 and illustrated the dynamic interactions between PTPN2 and CRBN. Together, our study demonstrates the development of PTPN2/N1 heterobifunctional degraders with potential applications in cancer immunotherapy. Furthermore, the developed structural workflow could help to understand the dynamic nature of degrader-induced cooperative ternary complexes.
PXD051697	39152497	Placental growth factor mediates pathological uterine angiogenesis by activating the NFAT5-SGK1 signaling axis in the endometrium: implications for preeclampsia development. 	Placental growth factor mediates pathological uterine vasculature by activating the NFAT5-SGK1 mechano-signaling axis in the endometrium: Implications for pre-eclampsia development.	PlGF, SGK1, endometrium, mechanobiology, placentation, pre-eclampsia, pregnancy	After menstruation the uterine spiral arteries are repaired through angiogenesis. This process is tightly regulated by the paracrine communication between endometrial stromal cells (EnSCs) and endothelial cells. Any molecular aberration in these processes can lead to complications in pregnancy including miscarriage or preeclampsia (PE). Placental growth factor (PlGF) is a known contributing factor for pathological angiogenesis but the mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether PlGF contributes to pathological uterine angiogenesis by disrupting EnSCs and endothelial paracrine communication. We observed that PlGF mediates a tonicity-independent activation of nuclear factor of activated T cells 5 (NFAT5) in EnSCs. NFAT5 activated downstream targets including SGK1, HIF-1alpha and VEGF-A. In depth characterization of PlGF - conditioned medium (CM) from EnSCs using mass spectrometry and ELISA methods revealed low VEGF-A and an abundance of extracellular matrix organization associated proteins. Secreted factors in PlGF-CM impeded normal angiogenic cues in endothelial cells (HUVECs) by downregulating Notch-VEGF signaling. Interestingly, PlGF-CM failed to support human placental (BeWo) cell invasion through HUVEC monolayer. Inhibition of SGK1 in EnSCs improved angiogenic effects in HUVECs and promoted BeWo invasion, revealing SGK1 as a key intermediate player modulating PlGF mediated anti-angiogenic signaling. Taken together, perturbed PlGF-NFAT5-SGK1 signaling in the endometrium can contribute to pathological uterine angiogenesis by negatively regulating EnSCs-endothelial crosstalk resulting in poor quality vessels in the uterine microenvironment. Taken together the signaling may impact on normal trophoblast invasion and thus placentation and, may be associated with an increased risk of complications such as PE.
PXD051097	39153366	Identification of a biomarker to predict doxorubicin/cisplatin chemotherapy efficacy in osteosarcoma patients using primary, recurrent and metastatic specimens. 	Identification of a biomarker to predict doxorubicin/cisplatin chemotherapy efficacy for osteosarcoma patients by 4D data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry with parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) verification	CTSG, data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry with parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), doxorubicin/cisplatin chemotherapy efficacy, neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), osteosarcoma	BACKGROUND: Doxorubicin and cisplatin are both first-line chemotherapeutics for osteosarcoma (OS) treatment. However, the efficacy of doxorubicin/cisplatin chemotherapy varies considerably. Thus, identifying an efficient diagnostic biomarker to distinguish patients with good and poor responses to doxorubicin/cisplatin chemotherapy is of paramount importance. METHODS: To predict the efficacy of doxorubicin/cisplatin chemotherapy, we analyzed the differentially expressed proteins in 37 resected OS samples, which were categorized into the primary group (PG), the recurrent group (RG) and the metastatic group (MG). The characteristics of the enriched differentially expressed proteins were assessed via GO and KEGG analyses. Protein-protein interactions were identified to determine the relationships among the differentially expressed proteins. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses were performed to explore the clinical significance of the differentially expressed proteins. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was used to validate the candidate proteins. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was performed to confirm the expression of cathepsin (CTSG) in patients with good and poor response to doxorubicin/cisplatin. RESULTS: A total of 9458 proteins were identified and quantified, among which 143 and 208 exhibited significant changes (|log2FC|>1, p < 0.05) in the RG and MG compared with the PG, respectively. GO and KEGG enrichment led to the identification of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). ROC curve analyses revealed 74 and 86 proteins with areas under the curve greater than 0.7 in the RG and MG, respectively. PRM validation revealed the statistical significance of CTSG, which is involved in NET formation, at the protein level in both the RG and MG. IHC staining of another cohort revealed that CTSG was prominently upregulated in the poor response group after treatment with doxorubicin/cisplatin. CONCLUSION: CTSG and its associated NETs are potential biomarkers with which the efficacy of doxorubicin/cisplatin chemotherapy could be predicted in OS patients.
PXD050940	39154050	Mechanistic insights into lanthipeptide modification by a distinct subclass of LanKC enzyme that forms dimers. 	Intact Mass analysis of class III lanthipeptide PneA	Intact Mass analysis, PneA	Naturally occurring lanthipeptides, peptides post-translationally modified by various enzymes, hold significant promise as antibiotics. Despite extensive biochemical and structural studies, the events preceding peptide modification remain poorly understood. Here, we identify a distinct subclass of lanthionine synthetase KC (LanKC) enzymes with distinct structural and functional characteristics. We show that PneKC, a member of this subclass, forms a dimer and possesses GTPase activity. Through three cryo-EM structures of PneKC, we illustrate different stages of peptide PneA binding, from initial recognition to full binding. Our structures show the kinase domain complexed with the PneA core peptide and GTPgammaS, a phosphate-bound lyase domain, and an unconventional cyclase domain. The leader peptide of PneA interact with a gate loop, transitioning from an extended to a helical conformation. We identify a dimerization hot spot and propose a "negative cooperativity" mechanism toggling the enzyme between tense and relaxed conformation. Additionally, we identify an important salt bridge in the cyclase domain, differing from those in in conventional cyclase domains. These residues are highly conserved in the LanKC subclass and are part of two signature motifs. These results unveil potential differences in lanthipeptide modification enzymes assembly and deepen our understanding of allostery in these multifunctional enzymes.
PXD053962	39154343	A CLIC1 network coordinates matrix stiffness and the Warburg effect to promote tumor growth in pancreatic cancer. 	A CLIC1 network coordinates matrix stiffness and the Warburg effect to promote tumor growth in pancreatic cancer	positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT), standardized uptake value-maximum (SUV-max)	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) features substantial matrix stiffening and reprogrammed glucose metabolism, particularly the Warburg effect. However, the complex interplay between these traits and their impact on tumor advancement remains inadequately explored. Here, we integrated clinical, cellular, and bioinformatics approaches to explore the connection between matrix stiffness and the Warburg effect in PDAC, identifying CLIC1 as a key mediator. Elevated CLIC1 expression, induced by matrix stiffness through Wnt/beta-catenin/TCF4 signaling, signifies poorer prognostic outcomes in PDAC. Functionally, CLIC1 serves as a catalyst for glycolytic metabolism, propelling tumor proliferation. Mechanistically, CLIC1 fortifies HIF1alpha stability by curbing hydroxylation via reactive oxygen species (ROS). Collectively, PDAC cells elevate CLIC1 levels in a matrix-stiffness-responsive manner, bolstering the Warburg effect to drive tumor growth via ROS/HIF1alpha signaling. Our insights highlight opportunities for targeted therapies that concurrently address matrix properties and metabolic rewiring, with CLIC1 emerging as a promising intervention point.
PXD054405	39154757	Microcystin-LR activates serine/threonine kinases and alters the phosphoproteome in human HepaRG cells. 	Microcystin-LR activates serine/threonine kinases and alters the phosphoproteome in human HepaRG cells	HepaRG cells, microcystin-LR, mitogen-activated protein kinase, phosphoproteomics, protein phosphatase, protein phosphorylation	Microcystin-LR (MCLR) exposure has been associated with development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Many of the carcinogenic mechanisms for MCLR have been attributed to the induction of cell survival and proliferation through altered protein phosphorylation pathways by inhibition of protein phosphatases 1 (PP1) and PP2A. The current study determined MCLR effects on the phosphoproteome in human HepaRG cells. Differentiated HepaRG cells were treated with either vehicle or MCLR followed by phosphoproteomic analysis and Western blotting of MAPK-activated proteins. MCLR decreased cell viability at 24 h at doses as low as 0.03 muM. MCLR also caused a dose-dependent increase in phosphorylation of signaling and stress kinases. The number of decreased phosphosites by 0.1 muM MCLR was similar between the 2 h (212) and 24 h (154) timepoints. In contrast, a greater number of phosphosites were increased at 24 h (567) versus the 2 h timepoint (136), indicating the hyperphosphorylation state caused by MCLR-mediated inhibition of PPs is time-dependent. A kinase perturbation analysis predicted that MCLR exposure at both 2 h and 24 h increased the function of aurora kinase B (AURKB), checkpoint kinase 1 (CHEK1), and serum and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 (SGK1). STRING database analysis of the phosphosites altered by MCLR exposure revealed pathways associated with cell proliferation and survival, including ribosomal protein S6 kinase (RSK), and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR2)-mediated vascular permeability. In addition, several cancer-related KEGG pathways were enriched at both 2 h and 24 h timepoints, and multiple cancer-related disease-gene associations were identified at the 24 h timepoint. Many of the kinases and pathways described above play crucial roles in the development of HCC by affecting processes such as invasion and metastasis. Overall, our data indicate that MCLR-mediated changes in protein phosphorylation involve biological pathways related to carcinogenesis that may contribute to the development of HCC.
PXD054378	39155390	HDAC6 inhibition disrupts HDAC6-P300 interaction reshaping the cancer chromatin landscape. 	Proteomics study of HDAC6 silenced cells	HDAC6, shot-gun	BACKGROUND: Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are crucial regulators of gene expression, DNA synthesis, and cellular processes, making them essential targets in cancer research. HDAC6, specifically, influences protein stability and chromatin dynamics. Despite HDAC6's potential therapeutic value, its exact role in gene regulation and chromatin remodeling needs further clarification. This study examines how HDAC6 inactivation influences lysine acetyltransferase P300 stabilization and subsequent effects on chromatin structure and function in cancer cells. METHODS AND RESULTS: We employed the HDAC6 inhibitor ITF3756, siRNA, or CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing to inactivate HDAC6 in different epigenomic backgrounds. Constantly, this inactivation led to significant changes in chromatin accessibility, particularly increased acetylation of histone H3 lysines 9, 14, and 27 (ATAC-seq and H3K27Ac ChIP-seq analysis). Transcriptomics, proteomics, and gene ontology analysis revealed gene changes in cell proliferation, adhesion, migration, and apoptosis. Significantly, HDAC6 inactivation altered P300 ubiquitination, stabilizing P300 and leading to downregulating genes critical for cancer cell survival. CONCLUSIONS: Our study highlights the substantial impact of HDAC6 inactivation on the chromatin landscape of cancer cells and suggests a role for P300 in contributing to the anticancer effects. The stabilization of P300 with HDAC6 inhibition proposes a potential shift in therapeutic focus from HDAC6 itself to its interaction with P300. This finding opens new avenues for developing targeted cancer therapies, improving our understanding of epigenetic mechanisms in cancer cells.
PXD050692	39157983	Transcriptome and proteome changes triggered by overexpression of the transcriptional regulator Maf1 in the human pathogen Leishmania major. 	Transcriptome and proteome changes triggered by overexpression of the transcriptional regulator Maf1 in the human pathogen Leishmania major	5S rRNA, Leishmania major, Maf1, Pol III transcription, tRNA	Maf1, originally described as a repressor of RNA polymerase III (RNAP III) transcription in yeast, participates in multiple functions across eukaryotes. However, the knowledge about Maf1 in protozoan parasites is scarce. To initiate the study of Maf1 in Leishmania major, we generated a cell line that overexpresses this protein. Overexpression of Maf1 led to a significant reduction in the abundance of tRNAs, 5S rRNA, and U4 snRNA, demonstrating that Maf1 regulates RNAP III activity in L. major. To further explore the roles played by Maf1 in this microorganism, global transcriptomic and proteomic changes due to Maf1 overexpression were determined using RNA-sequencing and label-free quantitative mass spectrometry. Compared to wild-type cells, differential expression was observed for 1082 transcripts (615 down-regulated and 467 up-regulated) and 205 proteins (132 down-regulated and 73 up-regulated) in the overexpressing cells. A correlation of 44% was found between transcriptomic and proteomic results. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses revealed that the differentially expressed genes and proteins are mainly involved in transcription, cell cycle regulation, lipid metabolism and transport, ribosomal biogenesis, carbohydrate metabolism, autophagy, and cytoskeleton modification. Thus, our results suggest the involvement of Maf1 in the regulation of all these processes in L. major, as reported in other species, indicating that the functions performed by Maf1 were established early in eukaryotic evolution. Notably, our data also suggest the participation of L. major Maf1 in mRNA post-transcriptional control, a role that, to the best of our knowledge, has not been described in other organisms.
PXD050121	39159058	Sirtuin 5-Mediated Desuccinylation of ALDH2 Alleviates Mitochondrial Oxidative Stress Following Acetaminophen-Induced Acute Liver Injury. 	Sirtuin 5-mediated desuccinylation of ALDH2 alleviates mitochondrial oxidative stress following acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury	ALDH2, Acute liver injury, Mitochondrial oxidative stress, SIRT5, Succinylation	Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is a major cause of drug-induced liver injury. Sirtuins 5 (SIRT5) has been implicated in the development of various liver diseases. However, its involvement in APAP-induced acute liver injury (AILI) remains unclear. The present study aimed to explore the role of SIRT5 in AILI. SIRT5 expression is dramatically downregulated by APAP administration in mouse livers and AML12 hepatocytes. SIRT5 deficiency not only exacerbates liver injury and the inflammatory response, but also worsens mitochondrial oxidative stress. Conversely, the opposite pathological and biochemical changes are observed in mice with SIRT5 overexpression. Mechanistically, quantitative succinylome analysis and site mutation experiments revealed that SIRT5 desuccinylated aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) at lysine 385 and maintained the enzymatic activity of ALDH2, resulting in the suppression of inflammation and mitochondrial oxidative stress. Furthermore, succinylation of ALDH2 at lysine 385 abolished its protective effect against AILI, and the protective effect of SIRT5 against AILI is dependent on the desuccinylation of ALDH2 at K385. Finally, virtual screening of natural compounds revealed that Puerarin promoted SIRT5 desuccinylase activity and further attenuated AILI. Collectively, the present study showed that the SIRT5-ALDH2 axis plays a critical role in AILI progression and might be a strategy for therapeutic intervention.
PXD047901	39159935	Deep Plasma Proteomics with Data-Independent Acquisition: Clinical Study Protocol Optimization with a COVID-19 Cohort. 	Deep plasma proteomics with data-independent acquisition: A fastlane towards biomarkers identification	Biomarkers, COVID-19, Clinical proteomics, DIA-NN, Data-independent acquisition, Deep proteome analysis, Fractionation, Plasma proteomics	Plasma proteomics is a precious tool in human disease research but requires extensive sample preparation in order to perform in-depth analysis and biomarker discovery using traditional data-dependent acquisition (DDA). Here, we highlight the efficacy of combining moderate plasma prefractionation and data-independent acquisition (DIA) to significantly improve proteome coverage and depth while remaining cost-efficient. Using human plasma collected from a 20-patient COVID-19 cohort, our method utilizes commonly available solutions for depletion, sample preparation, and fractionation, followed by 3 liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/MS (LC-MS/MS) injections for a 360 min total DIA run time. We detect 1321 proteins on average per patient and 2031 unique proteins across the cohort. Differential analysis further demonstrates the applicability of this method for plasma proteomic research and clinical biomarker identification, identifying hundreds of differentially abundant proteins at biological concentrations as low as 47 ng/L in human plasma. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD047901. In summary, this study introduces a streamlined, cost-effective approach to deep plasma proteome analysis, expanding its utility beyond classical research environments and enabling larger-scale multiomics investigations in clinical settings. Our comparative analysis revealed that fractionation, whether the samples were pooled or separate postfractionation, significantly improved the number of proteins quantified. This underscores the value of fractionation in enhancing the depth of plasma proteome analysis, thereby offering a more comprehensive landscape for biomarker discovery in diseases such as COVID-19.
PXD051569	39160560	Identification of energy metabolism anomalies and serum biomarkers in the progression of premature ovarian failure via extracellular vesicles' proteomic and metabolomic profiles. 	Serum Exosomal Omics Analysis: Revealing Energy Metabolism Anomalies and Promising Diagnostic Markers for Premature Ovarian Failure	POF, biomarker, exosomes, metabolomic	BACKGROUND: Premature ovarian failure (POF) is a clinical condition characterized by the cessation of ovarian function, leading to infertility. The underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear, and no predictable biomarkers have been identified. This study aimed to investigate the protein and metabolite contents of serum extracellular vesicles to investigate underlying molecular mechanisms and explore potential biomarkers. METHODS: This study was conducted on a cohort consisting of 14 POF patients and 16 healthy controls. The extracellular vesicles extracted from the serum of each group were subjected to label-free proteomic and unbiased metabolomic analysis. Differentially expressed proteins and metabolites were annotated. Pathway network clustering was conducted with further correlation analysis. The biomarkers were confirmed by ROC analysis and random forest machine learning. RESULTS: The proteomic and metabolomic profiles of POF patients and healthy controls were compared. Two subgroups of POF patients, Pre-POF and Pro-POF, were identified based on the proteomic profile, while all patients displayed a distinguishable metabolomic profile. Proteomic analysis suggested that inflammation serves as an early factor contributing to the infertility of POF patients. For the metabolomic analysis, despite the dysfunction of metabolism, oxidative stress and hormone imbalance were other key factors appearing in POF patients. Signaling pathway clustering of proteomic and metabolomic profiles revealed the progression of dysfunctional energy metabolism during the development of POF. Moreover, correlation analysis identified that differentially expressed proteins and metabolites were highly associated, with six of them being selected as potential biomarkers. ROC curve analysis, together with random forest machine learning, suggested that AFM combined with 2-oxoarginine was the best diagnostic biomarker for POF. CONCLUSIONS: Omics analysis revealed that inflammation, oxidative stress, and hormone imbalance are factors that damage ovarian tissue, but the progressive dysfunction of energy metabolism might be the critical pathogenic pathway contributing to the development of POF. AFM combined with 2-oxoarginine serves as a precise biomarker for clinical POF diagnosis.
PXD060483	39160670	Developmental Expression of Drug Transporters and Conjugating Enzymes Involved in Enterohepatic Recycling: Implication for Pediatric Drug Dosing. 	The ontogeny and inter-individual variability of drug- metabolizing enzymes and transporters in human liver.	Human Liver, Hydrolytic drug-metabolizing enzymes, Ontogeny	Around 50% of the drugs used in children have never been tested for safety and efficacy in this vulnerable population. Immature drug elimination pathways can lead to drug toxicity when pediatric doses are determined using empirical methods such as body-surface area or body-weight-normalized adult dosing. In the absence of clinical data, physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling has emerged as a useful tool to predict drug pharmacokinetics in children. These models utilize developmental physiological data, including age-dependent differences in the abundance of drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters (DMET), to mechanistically extrapolate adult pharmacokinetic data to children. The reported abundance data of hepatic DMET proteins in subcellular fractions isolated from frozen tissue are prone to high technical variability. Therefore, we carried out the proteomics-based quantification of hepatic drug transporters and conjugating enzymes in 50 pediatric and 8 adult human hepatocyte samples. Out of the 34 studied proteins, 28 showed a significant increase or decrease with age. While MRP6, OAT7, and SULT1E1 were highest in < 1-year-old samples, the abundance of P-gp and UGT1A4 was negligible in < 1-year-old samples and increased significantly after 1 year of age. Incorporation of the age-dependent abundance data in PBPK models can help improve pediatric dose prediction, leading to safer drug pharmacotherapy in children.
PXD053468	39162526	Protein disulfide isomerase PDI8 is indispensable for parasite growth and associated with secretory protein processing in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of PDI8 Depletion in Toxoplasma gondii	Toxoplasma gondii, protein disulfide isomerase, quantitative proteomics	Protein disulfide isomerase, containing thioredoxin (Trx) domains, serves as a vital enzyme responsible for oxidative protein folding (the formation, reduction, and isomerization of disulfide bonds in newly synthesized proteins) in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). However, the role of ER-localized PDI proteins in parasite growth and their interaction with secretory proteins remain poorly understood. In this study, we identified two ER-localized PDI proteins, TgPDI8 and TgPDI6, in Toxoplasma gondii. Conditional knockdown of TgPDI8 resulted in a significant reduction in intracellular proliferation and invasion abilities, leading to a complete block in plaque formation on human foreskin fibroblast monolayers, whereas parasites lacking TgPDI6 did not exhibit any apparent fitness defects. The complementation of TgPDI8 with mutant variants highlighted the critical role of the CXXC active site cysteines within its Trx domains for its enzymatic activity. By utilizing TurboID-based proximity labeling, we uncovered a close association between PDI proteins and canonical secretory proteins. Furthermore, parasites lacking TgPDI8 showed a significant reduction in the expression of secretory proteins, especially those from micronemes and dense granules. In summary, our study elucidates the roles of TgPDI8 and sets the stage for future drug discovery studies. IMPORTANCE: Apicomplexans, a phylum of intracellular parasites, encompass various zoonotic pathogens, including Plasmodium, Cryptosporidium, Toxoplasma, and Babesia, causing a significant economic burden on human populations. These parasites exhibit hypersensitivity to disruptions in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) redox homeostasis, necessitating the presence of ER-localized thioredoxin (Trx) superfamily proteins, particularly protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), for proper oxidative folding. However, the functional characteristics of ER-localized PDI proteins in Toxoplasma gondii remain largely unexplored. In this study, we identified two ER-localized proteins, namely, TgPDI8 and TgPDI6, and demonstrated the indispensable role of TgPDI8 in parasite survival. Through a comprehensive multi-omics analysis, we elucidated the crucial role of TgPDI8 in the processing of secretory proteins in T. gondii. Additionally, we introduced a novel ER-anchored TurboID method to label and identify canonical secretory proteins in T. gondii. This research opens up new avenues for understanding oxidative folding and the secretory pathway in apicomplexan parasites, laying the groundwork for future advancements in antiparasitic drug development.
PXD050073	39162992	Pre-existing cell subpopulations in primary prostate cancer tumors display surface fingerprints of docetaxel-resistant cells. 	Pre-existing cell subpopulations in primary prostate cancer tumors display surface fingerprints of docetaxel-resistant cells	CD95/Fas, SSEA-4, docetaxel-resistance, intratumoral heterogeneity, plasticity, prostate cancer	PURPOSE: Docetaxel resistance is a significant obstacle in the treatment of prostate cancer (PCa), resulting in unfavorable patient prognoses. Intratumoral heterogeneity, often associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), has previously emerged as a phenomenon that facilitates adaptation to various stimuli, thus promoting cancer cell diversity and eventually resistance to chemotherapy, including docetaxel. Hence, understanding intratumoral heterogeneity is essential for better patient prognosis and the development of personalized treatment strategies. METHODS: To address this, we employed a high-throughput single-cell flow cytometry approach to identify a specific surface fingerprint associated with docetaxel-resistance in PCa cells and complemented it with proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles. We further validated selected antigens using docetaxel-resistant patient-derived xenografts in vivo and probed primary PCa specimens to interrogate of their surface fingerprint. RESULTS: Our approaches revealed a 6-molecule surface fingerprint linked to docetaxel resistance in primary PCa specimens. We observed consistent overexpression of CD95 (FAS/APO-1), and SSEA-4 surface antigens in both in vitro and in vivo docetaxel-resistant models, which was also observed in a cell subpopulation of primary PCa tumors exhibiting EMT features. Furthermore, CD95, along with the essential enzymes involved in SSEA-4 synthesis, ST3GAL1, and ST3GAL2, displayed a significant increase in patients with PCa undergoing docetaxel-based therapy, correlating with poor survival outcomes. CONCLUSION: In summary, we demonstrate that the identified 6-molecule surface fingerprint associated with docetaxel resistance pre-exists in a subpopulation of primary PCa tumors before docetaxel treatment. Thus, this fingerprint warrants further validation as a promising predictive tool for docetaxel resistance in PCa patients prior to therapy initiation.
PXD048892	39164298	Peptide clustering enhances large-scale analyses and reveals proteolytic signatures in mass spectrometry data. 	Peptide clustering enhances large-scale analyses and reveals proteolytic signatures in mass spectrometry data	Peptides, infection, peptidomics, porcine, wound fluid	Recent advances in mass spectrometry-based peptidomics have catalyzed the identification and quantification of thousands of endogenous peptides across diverse biological systems. However, the vast peptidomic landscape generated by proteolytic processing poses several challenges for downstream analyses and limits the comparability of clinical samples. Here, we present an algorithm that aggregates peptides into peptide clusters, reducing the dimensionality of peptidomics data, improving the definition of protease cut sites, enhancing inter-sample comparability, and enabling the implementation of large-scale data analysis methods akin to those employed in other omics fields. We showcase the algorithm by performing large-scale quantitative analysis of wound fluid peptidomes of highly defined porcine wound infections and human clinical non-healing wounds. This revealed signature phenotype-specific peptide regions and proteolytic activity at the earliest stages of bacterial colonization. We validated the method on the urinary peptidome of type 1 diabetics which revealed potential subgroups and improved classification accuracy.
