PXD033723	36408942	Quantitative proteomic analysis of exosomes from umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells and rat bone marrow stem cells. 	diaPASEF analysis of exosomes from stem cells	Stem cells, diaPASEF	Exosomes derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been used for cancer treatment, however, an in-depth analysis of the exosomal proteomes is lacking. In this manuscript, we use the diaPASEF (parallel accumulation serial fragmentation combined with the data-independent acquisition) method to quantify exosomes derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UCMSCs) and rat bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs), resulting in identification of 4200 human proteins and 5362 rat proteins. Comparison of human exosomal proteins and total cellular proteins reveals that some proteins exist in the exosomes exclusively that can be served as potential markers for exosomes. Quantitative proteomic analysis of exosomes from different passages of BMSCs shows that the proteins involved in TGF-beta signaling pathway are regulated in abundance, which could be markers for the therapeutic ability of BMSC exosomes. Collectively, the data presented by this study can be a resource for further study of exosome research.
PXD047268	36410438	Impact of inherent biases built into proteomic techniques: Proximity labeling and affinity capture compared. 	Probing the trypanosome nuclear pore by TurboID proximity labelling	BioID, Trypanosoma brucei, nuclear pore, nuclear transport, porin	The characterization of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is of high value for understanding protein function. Two strategies are popular for identification of PPIs direct from the cellular environment: affinity capture (pulldown) isolates the protein of interest with an immobilized matrix that specifically captures the target and potential partners, whereas in BioID, genetic fusion of biotin ligase facilitates proximity biotinylation, and labeled proteins are isolated with streptavidin. Whilst both methods provide valuable insights, they can reveal distinct PPIs, but the basis for these differences is less obvious. Here, we compare both methods using four different trypanosome proteins as baits: poly(A)-binding proteins PABP1 and PABP2, mRNA export receptor MEX67, and the nucleoporin NUP158. With BioID, we found that the population of candidate interacting proteins decreases with more confined bait protein localization, but the candidate population is less variable with affinity capture. BioID returned more likely false positives, in particular for proteins with less confined localization, and identified low molecular weight proteins less efficiently. Surprisingly, BioID for MEX67 identified exclusively proteins lining the inner channel of the nuclear pore complex (NPC), consistent with the function of MEX67, whereas the entire NPC was isolated by pulldown. Similarly, for NUP158, BioID returned surprisingly few PPIs within NPC outer rings that were by contrast detected with pulldown but instead returned a larger cohort of nuclear proteins. These rather significant differences highlight a clear issue with reliance on a single method to identify PPIs and suggest that BioID and affinity capture are complementary rather than alternative approaches.
PXD036751	36411331	An odorant-binding protein in the elephant's trunk is finely tuned to sex pheromone (Z)-7-dodecenyl acetate. 	Proteomic analysis and ligand-binding studies of the odorant-binding protein OBP1 in the elephant's trunk	elephants, odorant-binding protein, pheromones, post-translational modifications	Chemical communication in elephants has been well studied at the chemical and behavioural levels. Pheromones have been identified in the Asian elephant (Elephas maximus), including (Z)-7-dodecenyl acetate and frontalin, and their specific effects on the sexual behaviour of elephants have been accurately documented. In contrast, our knowledge on the proteins mediating detection of pheromones in elephants remains poor and superficial, with only three annotated and reliable entries in sequence databases, two of them being odorant-binding proteins (OBPs), and the third a member of von Ebner's gland (VEG) proteins. Proteomic analysis of trunk wash extract from African elephant (Loxodonta africana) identified one of the OBPs (LafrOBP1) as the main component. We therefore expressed LafrOBP1 and its Asian elephant orthologue in yeast Pichia pastoris and found that both recombinant proteins, as well as the natural LafrOBP1 are tuned to (Z)-7-dodecenyl acetate, but have no affinity for frontalin. Both the natural and recombinant LafrOBP1 carry post-translational modifications such as O-glycosylation, phosphorylation and acetylation, but as these modifications affect only a very small amount of the protein, we cannot establish their potential effects on the ligand-binding properties of OBP1.
PXD029840	36411341	Structures of transcription preinitiation complex engaged with the +1 nucleosome. 	Structure of transcription preinitiation complex engaged with the +1 nucleosome	+1 nucleosome, TFIIH, preinitiation complex, transcription	The preinitiation complex (PIC) assembles on promoters of protein-coding genes to position RNA polymerase II (Pol II) for transcription initiation. Previous structural studies revealed the PIC on different promoters, but did not address how the PIC assembles within chromatin. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, PIC assembly occurs adjacent to the +1 nucleosome that is located downstream of the core promoter. Here we present cryo-EM structures of the yeast PIC bound to promoter DNA and the +1 nucleosome located at three different positions. The general transcription factor TFIIH engages with the incoming downstream nucleosome and its translocase subunit Ssl2 (XPB in human TFIIH) drives the rotation of the +1 nucleosome leading to partial detachment of nucleosomal DNA and intimate interactions between TFIIH and the nucleosome. The structures provide insights into how transcription initiation can be influenced by the +1 nucleosome and may explain why the transcription start site is often located roughly 60 base pairs upstream of the dyad of the +1 nucleosome in yeast.
PXD034893	36412553	In vitro characterization of the intramelanosomal domain of human recombinant TYRP1 and its oculocutaneous albinism type 3-related mutant variants. 	Protein expression and identification of Tyrp1 Mutant Variants Associated with OCA3 form of albinism.	Albinism, OCA3, Tyrp1	Tyrosinase related protein 1 (TYRP1) is the most abundant melanosomal protein of the melanocyte, where plays an important role in the synthesis of eumelanin, possibly catalyzing the oxidation of 5,6-dihydroxyindole-2-carboxylic acid to 5,6-quinone-2-carboxylic acid. Mutations to the TYRP1 gene can result in oculocutaneous albinism type 3 (OCA3), a rare disease characterized by reduced synthesis of melanin in skin, hair, and eyes. To investigate the effect of genetic mutations on the TYRP1 structure, function, and stability, we engineered the intramelanosomal domain of TYRP1 and its mutant variants mimicking either OCA3-related changes, C30R, H215Y, D308N, and R326H or R87G mutant variant, analogous to OCA1-related pathogenic effect in tyrosinase. Proteins were produced in Trichoplusia Ni larvae, then purified, and analyzed by biochemical methods. Data shows that D308N and R326H mutants keep the native conformations and demonstrate no change in their stability and enzymatic activity. In contrast, mutations C30R and R87G localized in the Cys-rich domain show the variants misfolding during the purification process. The H215Y variant disrupts the binding of Zn(2+) in the active site and thus reduces the strength of the enzyme/substrate interactions. Our results, consistent with the clinical and in silico studies, show that mutations at the protein surface are expected to have a negligible phenotype change compared to that of TYRP1. For the mutations with severe phenotype changes, which were localized in the Cys-rich domain or the active site, we confirmed a complete or partial protein misfolding as the possible mechanism of protein malfunction caused by OCA3 inherited mutations.
PXD035233	36412878	Escherichia coli Biofilm Formation, Motion and Protein Patterns on Hyaluronic Acid and Polydimethylsiloxane Depend on Surface Stiffness. 	Surface stiffness, hydration, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), hyaluronic acid, biofilm and bacterial mobility, protein patterns.	Escherichia coli biofilm formation, motion and protein patterns on hyaluronic acid and polydimethylsiloxane depend on surface stiffnes	The surface stiffness of the microenvironment is a mechanical signal regulating biofilm growth without the risks associated with the use of bioactive agents. However, the mechanisms determining the expansion or prevention of biofilm growth on soft and stiff substrates are largely unknown. To answer this question, we used PDMS (polydimethylsiloxane, 9-574 kPa) and HA (hyaluronic acid gels, 44 Pa-2 kPa) differing in their hydration. We showed that the softest HA inhibited Escherichia coli biofilm growth, while the stiffest PDMS activated it. The bacterial mechanical environment significantly regulated the MscS mechanosensitive channel in higher abundance on the least colonized HA-44Pa, while Type-1 pili (FimA) showed regulation in higher abundance on the most colonized PDMS-9kPa. Type-1 pili regulated the free motion (the capacity of bacteria to move far from their initial position) necessary for biofilm growth independent of the substrate surface stiffness. In contrast, the total length travelled by the bacteria (diffusion coefficient) varied positively with the surface stiffness but not with the biofilm growth. The softest, hydrated HA, the least colonized surface, revealed the least diffusive and the least free-moving bacteria. Finally, this shows that customizing the surface elasticity and hydration, together, is an efficient means of affecting the bacteria's mobility and attachment to the surface and thus designing biomedical surfaces to prevent biofilm growth.
PXD037059	36413498	VpdC is a ubiquitin-activated phospholipase effector that regulates Legionella vacuole expansion during infection. 	The Legionella protein VpdC is a ubiquitin-activated phospholipase effector	Host-pathogen interaction, Legionnaires disease, host cell, intracellular pathogen, translocated effector	Intravacuolar pathogens need to gradually expand their surrounding vacuole to accommodate the growing number of bacterial offspring during intracellular replication. Here we found that Legionella pneumophila controls vacuole expansion by fine-tuning the generation of lysophospholipids within the vacuolar membrane. Upon allosteric activation by binding to host ubiquitin, the type IVB (Dot/Icm) effector VpdC converts phospholipids into lysophospholipids which, at moderate concentrations, are known to promote membrane fusion but block it at elevated levels by generating excessive positive membrane curvature. Consequently, L. pneumophila overproducing VpdC were prevented from adequately expanding their surrounding membrane, trapping the replicating bacteria within spatially confined vacuoles and reducing their capability to proliferate intracellularly. Quantitative lipidomics confirmed a VpdC-dependent increase in several types of lysophospholipids during infection, and VpdC production in transiently transfected cells caused tubulation of organelle membranes as well as mitochondria fragmentation, processes that can be phenocopied by supplying cells with exogenous lysophospholipids. Together, these results demonstrate an important role for bacterial phospholipases in vacuolar expansion.
PXD035111	36413626	A KLK6 Activity-Based Probe Reveals a Role for KLK6 Activity in Pancreatic Cancer Cell Invasion. 	Validation and application of a novel KLK6 activity based probe (IMP2352)	ABPP, KLK, N-terminomics, activity-based probe, kallikrein-related peptidase	Pancreatic cancer has the lowest survival rate of all common cancers due to late diagnosis and limited treatment options. Serine hydrolases are known to mediate cancer progression and metastasis through initiation of signaling cascades and cleavage of extracellular matrix proteins, and the kallikrein-related peptidase (KLK) family of secreted serine proteases have emerging roles in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). However, the lack of reliable activity-based probes (ABPs) to profile KLK activity has hindered progress in validation of these enzymes as potential targets or biomarkers. Here, we developed potent and selective ABPs for KLK6 by using a positional scanning combinatorial substrate library and characterized their binding mode and interactions by X-ray crystallography. The optimized KLK6 probe IMP-2352 (kobs/I = 11,000 M(-1) s(-1)) enabled selective detection of KLK6 activity in a variety of PDAC cell lines, and we observed that KLK6 inhibition reduced the invasiveness of PDAC cells that secrete active KLK6. KLK6 inhibitors were combined with N-terminomics to identify potential secreted protein substrates of KLK6 in PDAC cells, providing insights into KLK6-mediated invasion pathways. These novel KLK6 ABPs offer a toolset to validate KLK6 and associated signaling partners as targets or biomarkers across a range of diseases.
PXD037954	36414384	Micro-Topographies Induce Epigenetic Reprogramming and Quiescence in Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells. 	Micro-topographies induce epigenetic reprogramming and quiescence in human mesenchymal stem cells	DDA, Nucleus, biomaterials, epigenetics, mechanobiology, mesenchymal stem cells	Biomaterials can control cell and nuclear morphology. Since the shape of the nucleus influences chromatin architecture, gene expression and cell identity, surface topography can control cell phenotype. This study provides fundamental insights into how surface topography influences nuclear morphology, histone modifications, and expression of histone-associated proteins through advanced histone mass spectrometry and microarray analysis. The authors find that nuclear confinement is associated with a loss of histone acetylation and nucleoli abundance, while pathway analysis reveals a substantial reduction in gene expression associated with chromosome organization. In light of previous observations where the authors found a decrease in proliferation and metabolism induced by micro-topographies, they connect these findings with a quiescent phenotype in mesenchymal stem cells, as further shown by a reduction of ribosomal proteins and the maintenance of multipotency on micro-topographies after long-term culture conditions. Also, this influence of micro-topographies on nuclear morphology and proliferation is reversible, as shown by a return of proliferation when re-cultured on a flat surface. The findings provide novel insights into how biophysical signaling influences the epigenetic landscape and subsequent cellular phenotype.
PXD037648	36414671	SENP1 prevents steatohepatitis by suppressing RIPK1-driven apoptosis and inflammation. 	SENP1 prevents steatohepatitis by suppressing RIPK1-driven apoptosis and inflammation	SENP1	Activation of RIPK1-driven cell death and inflammation play important roles in the progression of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). However, the mechanism underlying RIPK1 activation in NASH remains unclear. Here we identified SENP1, a SUMO-specific protease, as a key endogenous inhibitor of RIPK1. SENP1 is progressively reduced in proportion to NASH severity in patients. Hepatocyte-specific SENP1-knockout mice develop spontaneous NASH-related phenotypes in a RIPK1 kinase-dependent manner. We demonstrate that SENP1 deficiency sensitizes cells to RIPK1 kinase-dependent apoptosis by promoting RIPK1 activation following TNFalpha stimulation. Mechanistically, SENP1 deSUMOylates RIPK1 in TNF-R1 signaling complex (TNF-RSC), keeping RIPK1 in check. Loss of SENP1 leads to SUMOylation of RIPK1, which re-orchestrates TNF-RSC and modulates the ubiquitination patterns and activity of RIPK1. Notably, genetic inhibition of RIPK1 effectively reverses disease progression in hepatocyte-specific SENP1-knockout male mice with high-fat-diet-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver. We propose that deSUMOylation of RIPK1 by SENP1 provides a pathophysiologically relevant cell death-restricting checkpoint that modulates RIPK1 activation in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
PXD031362	36416264	An RNAi screen of RNA helicases identifies eIF4A3 as a regulator of embryonic stem cell identity. 	eIF4A3 interactome by IP-MS in mouse ESCs	ESCs, IP-MS, eIF4A3	RNA helicases are involved in multiple steps of RNA metabolism to direct their roles in gene expression, yet their functions in pluripotency control remain largely unexplored. Starting from an RNA interference (RNAi) screen of RNA helicases, we identified that eIF4A3, a DEAD-box (Ddx) helicase component of the exon junction complex (EJC), is essential for the maintenance of embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Mechanistically, we show that eIF4A3 post-transcriptionally controls the pluripotency-related cell cycle regulators and that its depletion causes the loss of pluripotency via cell cycle dysregulation. Specifically, eIF4A3 is required for the efficient nuclear export of Ccnb1 mRNA, which encodes Cyclin B1, a key component of the pluripotency-promoting pathway during the cell cycle progression of ESCs. Our results reveal a previously unappreciated role for eIF4A3 and its associated EJC in maintaining stem cell pluripotency through post-transcriptional control of the cell cycle.
PXD037562	36417864	Cms1 coordinates stepwise local 90S pre-ribosome assembly with timely snR83 release. 	Cms1 coordinates stepwise local 90S pre-ribosome assembly with timely snR83 release - table s1 corrected	90S pre-ribosome, Cms1, Ribosome biogenesis, snoRNA	Ribosome synthesis begins in the nucleolus with 90S pre-ribosome construction, but little is known about how the many different snoRNAs that modify the pre-rRNA are timely guided to their target sites. Here, we report a role for Cms1 in such a process. Initially, we discovered CMS1 as a null suppressor of a nop14 mutant impaired in Rrp12-Enp1 factor recruitment to the 90S. Further investigations detected Cms1 at the 18S rRNA 3' major domain of an early 90S that carried H/ACA snR83, which is known to guide pseudouridylation at two target sites within the same subdomain. Cms1 co-precipitates with many 90S factors, but Rrp12-Enp1 encircling the 3' major domain in the mature 90S is decreased. We suggest that Cms1 associates with the 3' major domain during early 90S biogenesis to restrict premature Rrp12-Enp1 binding but allows snR83 to timely perform its modification role before the next 90S assembly steps coupled with Cms1 release take place.
PXD037247	36417884	Fibroblasts repair blood-brain barrier damage and hemorrhagic brain injury via TIMP2. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of human brain fibroblast-secreted molecules	Brain fibroblasts	The function of fibroblasts in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) remains elusive. By targeting Col1alpha1, a fibroblast-specific marker, we generate mice with ablated Col1alpha1(+) fibroblasts. These mutants show exacerbated blood-brain barrier (BBB) damage, enlarged injury volume, and worse neurological function, highlighting a beneficial role of Col1alpha1(+) fibroblasts in ICH. Echoing these findings, fibroblasts significantly decrease endothelial permeability in an in vitro ICH model. Next, we demonstrate that fibroblasts promote BBB integrity in ICH mainly via up-regulating tight junction proteins without affecting transcytosis-associated proteins, indicating a paracellular rather than transcellular mechanism. A subsequent mechanistic study reveals that the BBB-protective effect of fibroblasts is partially mediated by TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 2 (TIMP2). Furthermore, we find that exogenous TIMP2 attenuates BBB disruption in these mutants after ICH. These results suggest that Col1alpha1(+) fibroblasts repair BBB damage in ICH via the paracellular pathway in a TIMP2-dependent manner, and that Col1alpha1(+) fibroblasts and TIMP2 may be targeted in ICH treatment.
PXD054469	36419531	The acute-to-chronic glycemic ratio correlates with the severity of illness at admission in patients with diabetes experiencing acute ischemic stroke. 	Drug protection against hyperglycemia induced damage to enteric glial cells	enteric glial cells, hyperglycemia	Acute hyperglycemia is a powerful indicator of the severity of acute ischemic stroke (AIS); however, the relationship between these two factors is not very clear in patients with diabetes. We aimed to retrospectively evaluate data from 335 consecutive patients who experienced AIS from November 2015 to November 2016 to investigate whether a comprehensive assessment of blood glucose levels is a more valuable indicator of the severity of AIS or the presence of acute hyperglycemia in patients with diabetes. We collected demographic data, clinical manifestation information, clinical scores, and laboratory data [including fasting blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels]. We estimated prehospital mean blood glucose concentrations using the following formula [1.59 (*) HbA1c (%) - 2.59] to calculate the "Acute-to-Chronic Glycemic Ratio" (AC ratio). The AC ratio differed significantly among patients grouped according to the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale/Score (NIHSS) at admission (admission NIHSS) (p = 0.006). Univariate regression analysis revealed a correlation between the AC ratio and admission NIHSS [standardized beta-coefficient (Std. B) = 0.164, p = 0.004]. The adjusted linear regression analysis revealed a correlation between both HbA1c (Std. B = 0.368, p = 0.038) and the AC ratio (Std. B = 0.262, p = 0.022) and admission NIHSS. The AC ratio (Std. B = 0.161, p = 0.012) was related to admission NIHSS in the stepwise variable selection. For an admission NIHHS > 4, the AC ratio (Std. B = 0.186, p = 0.047) was related to admission NIHSS in the stepwise variable selection. The AC ratio (Std. B = 1.163, p = 0.006 and Std. B = 0.565, p = 0.021, respectively) were related to admission NIHSS in both large-artery atherosclerosis (LAA) and small-vessel occlusion (SVO) subgroups. Thus, the AC ratio is related to admission NIHSS in patients with diabetes who experienced AIS and may be a better indicator of severity than acute blood glucose levels.
PXD009135	36420052	MS-proteomics provides insight into the host responses towards alginate microspheres. 	Identification of adsorbing human plasma proteins on alginate gel beads	Alginate gel beads, biocompatibility, protein adsorption	Protein adsorption to biomaterial surfaces is considered a determining factor for the host response. Here we detail the protein adsorption profiles of alginate hydrogel microspheres relevant for cell therapy using mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics. The investigated microspheres include sulfated alginate (SA), high G alginate (HiG), and poly-l-lysine coated alginate (AP), which previously have been shown to exhibit different inflammatory and fibrotic responses. The biological significance was assessed in lepirudin-anticoagulated human whole blood (hWB) by functional analysis of the acute-phase responses (complement and coagulation). Proteomic profiling revealed distinct signatures for the microspheres, wherein Ingenuity Pathway Analysis identified complement and coagulation as the top enriched canonical pathways. The levels of complement and coagulation activators and inhibitors were distinctly different, which was reflected in the functional hWB analyses: SA was highly enriched with inhibitory factors of complement and coagulation (e.g. C1 inhibitor, factor H, antithrombin-III, heparin cofactor 2), other heparin-binding proteins and factors promoting fibrinolysis (factor XII, plasma kallikrein), conforming to an anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic profile. HiG enriched moderate levels of complement inhibitors, conforming to a low-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic profile. AP showed the most prominent enrichment of complement activators (e.g. C3, properdin, C-reactive protein) and low levels of inhibitors, conforming to a pro-inflammatory and highly pro-fibrotic profile. In conclusion, the extensive enrichment of inhibitory acute-phase proteins on SA could be a determining factor for its reduced host response. The interactions between the plasma proteins and hydrogel surfaces shown herein point to proteomics as an important supplement to existing in vitro and in vivo methods for designing biocompatible alginate-based hydrogels.
PXD035227	36420152	Phosphorylation of T897 in the dimerization domain of Gemin5 modulates protein interactions and translation regulation. 	Human HEK293 Gemin5 phosphorylation site T897 mutants LC-MSMS	Gemin5, HEK293, Phosphorylation	Gemin5 is a multifunctional RNA binding protein (RBP) organized in domains with a distinctive structural organization. The protein is a hub for several protein networks performing diverse RNA-dependent functions including regulation of translation, and recognition of small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs). Here we sought to identify the presence of phosphoresidues on the C-terminal half of Gemin5, a region of the protein that harbors a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR)-like dimerization domain and a non-canonical RNA binding site (RBS1). We identified two phosphoresidues in the purified protein: P-T897 in the dimerization domain and P-T1355 in RBS1. Replacing T897 and T1355 with alanine led to decreased translation, and mass spectrometry analysis revealed that mutation T897A strongly abrogates the association with cellular proteins related to the regulation of translation. In contrast, the phosphomimetic substitutions to glutamate partially rescued the translation regulatory activity. The structural analysis of the TPR dimerization domain indicates that local rearrangements caused by phosphorylation of T897 affect the conformation of the flexible loop 2-3, and propagate across the dimerization interface, impacting the position of the C-terminal helices and the loop 12-13 shown to be mutated in patients with neurological disorders. Computational analysis of the potential relationship between post-translation modifications and currently known pathogenic variants indicates a lack of overlapping of the affected residues within the functional domains of the protein and provides molecular insights for the implication of the phosphorylated residues in translation regulation.
PXD037637	36420308	Potential blood biomarkers for chronic traumatic encephalopathy: The multi-omics landscape of an observational cohort. 	Potential blood biomarkers for chronic traumatic encephalopathy: the multi-omics landscape of an observational cohort	biomarker, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, exosomes, multi-omics, transcriptomics, traumatic brain injury, traumatic encephalopathy syndrome	Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a neurodegenerative disease associated with exposure to repetitive head impacts, which is susceptible in elderly people with declined mobility, athletes of full contact sports, military personnel and victims of domestic violence. It has been pathologically diagnosed in brain donors with a history of repetitive mild traumatic brain injury (rmTBI), but cannot be clinically diagnosed for a long time. By the continuous efforts by neuropathologists, neurologists and neuroscientists in recent 10 years, an expert consensus for the diagnostic framework of CTE was proposed in 2021 funded by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. The new consensus contributes to facilitating research in the field. However, it still needs to incorporate in vivo biomarkers to further refine and validate the clinical diagnostic criteria. From this, a single-center, observational cohort study has been being conducted by Tianjin Medical University General Hospital since 2021. As a pilot study of this clinical trial, the present research recruited 12 pairs of gender- and age-matched rmTBI patients with healthy subjects. Their blood samples were collected for exosome isolation, and multi-omics screening to explore potential diagnostic biomarkers in blood and its exosomes. The expression level of CHL1 protein, KIF2A mRNA, LIN7C mRNA, miR-297, and miR-1183 in serum and exosomes were found to be differentially expressed between groups. Besides, serum and exosomal CHL1, KIF2A, and miR-1183, as well as exosomal miR-297 were further verified as potential biomarkers for CTE by low-throughput assays. They are expected to contribute to establishing a novel set of CTE diagnostic signatures with classic neurodegenerative indicators in our future study, thereby updating the consensus diagnostic criteria for CTE by incorporating new evidence of the in vivo biomarkers.
PXD024659	36421765	EROS is a selective chaperone regulating the phagocyte NADPH oxidase and purinergic signalling. 	EROS/CYBC1 CONTROLS THE PHAGOCYTE RESPIRATORY BURST VIA DIRECT INTERACTION WITH GP91PHOX AND HAS A NOVEL ROLE IN NLRP3 INFLAMMASOME ACTIVATION	CYBC1, EROS, NADPH oxidase, P2X7, chronic granulomatous disease, gp91phox	EROS (essential for reactive oxygen species) protein is indispensable for expression of gp91phox, the catalytic core of the phagocyte NADPH oxidase. EROS deficiency in humans is a novel cause of the severe immunodeficiency, chronic granulomatous disease, but its mechanism of action was unknown until now. We elucidate the role of EROS, showing it acts at the earliest stages of gp91phox maturation. It binds the immature 58 kDa gp91phox directly, preventing gp91phox degradation and allowing glycosylation via the oligosaccharyltransferase machinery and the incorporation of the heme prosthetic groups essential for catalysis. EROS also regulates the purine receptors P2X7 and P2X1 through direct interactions, and P2X7 is almost absent in EROS-deficient mouse and human primary cells. Accordingly, lack of murine EROS results in markedly abnormal P2X7 signalling, inflammasome activation, and T cell responses. The loss of both ROS and P2X7 signalling leads to resistance to influenza infection in mice. Our work identifies EROS as a highly selective chaperone for key proteins in innate and adaptive immunity and a rheostat for immunity to infection. It has profound implications for our understanding of immune physiology, ROS dysregulation, and possibly gene therapy.
PXD035458	36422315	A Cyanophage MarR-Type Transcription Factor Regulates Host RNase E Expression during Infection. 	Cyanophage MarR-type transcription factor regulates host RNase E expression	Cyanophage, MarR, Protein interaction	The marine picocyanobacterium Prochlorococcus contributes significantly to global primary production, and its abundance and diversity is shaped in part by viral infection. Here, we identified a cyanophage-encoded MarR-type transcription factor that induces the gene expression of host Prochlorococcus MED4 endoribonuclease (RNase) E during phage infection. The increase in rne transcript levels relies on the phage (p)MarR-mediated activation of an alternative promoter that gives rise to a truncated yet enzymatically fully functional RNase E isoform. In this study, we demonstrate that pMarR binds to an atypical activator site downstream of the transcriptional start site and that binding is enhanced in the presence of Ca(2+) ions. Furthermore, we show that dimeric pMarR interacts with the alpha subunit of RNA polymerase, and we identified amino acid residues S66, R67, and G106, which are important for Ca(2+) binding, DNA binding, and dimerization of pMarR, respectively.
PXD036621	36422372	A Methylotrophic Bacterium Growing with the Antidiabetic Drug Metformin as Its Sole Carbon, Nitrogen and Energy Source. 	A methylotrophic bacterium growing with the antidiabetic drug metformin as its sole carbon, nitrogen and energy source	Aminobacter, biodegradation, dimethylamine, functional genomics, genome analysis, guanylurea, metformin, methylotrophy, micropollutants, minitransposon mutagenesis	Metformin is one of the most prescribed antidiabetic agents worldwide and is also considered for other therapeutic applications including cancer and endocrine disorders. It is largely unmetabolized by human enzymes and its presence in the environment has raised concern, with reported toxic effects on aquatic life and potentially also on humans. We report on the isolation and characterisation of strain MD1, an aerobic methylotrophic bacterium growing with metformin as its sole carbon, nitrogen and energy source. Strain MD1 degrades metformin into dimethylamine used for growth, and guanylurea as a side-product. Sequence analysis of its fully assembled genome showed its affiliation to Aminobacter niigataensis. Differential proteomics and transcriptomics, as well as mini-transposon mutagenesis of the strain, point to genes and proteins essential for growth with metformin and potentially associated with hydrolytic C-N cleavage of metformin or with cellular transport of metformin and guanylurea. The obtained results suggest the recent evolution of the growth-supporting capacity of strain MD1 to degrade metformin. Our results identify candidate proteins of the enzymatic system for metformin transformation in strain MD1 and will inform future research on the fate of metformin and its degradation products in the environment and in humans.
PXD037360	36422574	Toward a hypothesis-free understanding of how phosphorylation dynamically impacts protein turnover. 	Hypothesis-free Illustration on How Phosphorylation Dynamically  Impact Protein Turnover	Clustering, DIA-MS, Data analysis, DeltaSILAC, Peptidoform, Phosphorylation, Protein turnover, Pulse SILAC, Time course	The turnover measurement of proteins and proteoforms has been largely facilitated by workflows coupling metabolic labeling with mass spectrometry (MS), including dynamic stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (dynamic SILAC) or pulsed SILAC (pSILAC). Very recent studies including ours have integrated themeasurement of post-translational modifications (PTMs) at the proteome level (i.e., phosphoproteomics) with pSILAC experiments in steady state systems, exploring the link between PTMs and turnover at the proteome-scale. An open question in the field is how to exactly interpret these complex datasets in a biological perspective. Here, we present a novel pSILAC phosphoproteomic dataset which was obtained during a dynamic process of cell starvation using data-independent acquisition MS (DIA-MS). To provide an unbiased "hypothesis-free" analysis framework, we developed a strategy to interrogate how phosphorylation dynamically impacts protein turnover across the time series data. With this strategy, we discovered a complex relationship between phosphorylation and protein turnover that was previously underexplored. Our results further revealed a link between phosphorylation stoichiometry with the turnover of phosphorylated peptidoforms. Moreover, our results suggested that phosphoproteomic turnover diversity cannot directly explain the abundance regulation of phosphorylation during cell starvation, underscoring the importance of future studies addressing PTM site-resolved protein turnover.
PXD037375	36422980	Extracellular Vesicles from Bothrops jararaca Venom Are Diverse in Structure and Protein Composition and Interact with Mammalian Cells. 	Characterization of extracellular vesicles from Bothrops jararaca snake venom	extracellular vesicles, snake venom	Snake venoms are complex cocktails of non-toxic and toxic molecules that work synergistically for the envenoming outcome. Alongside the immediate consequences, chronic manifestations and long-term sequelae can occur. Recently, extracellular vesicles (EVs) were found in snake venom. EVs mediate cellular communication through long distances, delivering proteins and nucleic acids that modulate the recipient cell's function. However, the biological roles of snake venom EVs, including possible cross-organism communication, are still unknown. This knowledge may expand the understanding of envenoming mechanisms. In the present study, we isolated and characterized the EVs from Bothrops jararaca venom (Bj-EVs), giving insights into their biological roles. Fresh venom was submitted to differential centrifugation, resulting in two EV populations with typical morphology and size range. Several conserved EV markers and a subset of venom related EV markers, represented mainly by processing enzymes, were identified by proteomic analysis. The most abundant protein family observed in Bj-EVs was 5'-nucleotidase, known to be immunosuppressive and a low abundant and ubiquitous toxin in snake venoms. Additionally, we demonstrated that mammalian cells efficiently internalize Bj-EVs. The commercial antibothropic antivenom partially recognizes Bj-EVs and inhibits cellular EV uptake. Based on the proteomic results and the in vitro interaction assays using macrophages and muscle cells, we propose that Bj-EVs may be involved not only in venom production and processing but also in host immune modulation and long-term effects of envenoming.
PXD035969	36423631	Structural insights into caspase ADPR deacylization catalyzed by a bacterial effector and host calmodulin. 	Structural insights into caspase ADPR-deacylization catalyzed by a bacterial effector and host calmodulin	ADPR-deacylization, caspase-7/-8/-9	Programmed cell death and caspase proteins play a pivotal role in host innate immune response combating pathogen infections. Blocking cell death is employed by many bacterial pathogens as a universal virulence strategy. CopC family type III effectors, including CopC from an environmental pathogen Chromobacterium violaceum, utilize calmodulin (CaM) as a co-factor to inactivate caspases by arginine ADPR deacylization. However, the molecular basis of the catalytic and substrate/co-factor binding mechanism is unknown. Here, we determine successive cryo-EM structures of CaM-CopC-caspase-3 ternary complex in pre-reaction, transition, and post-reaction states, which elucidate a multistep enzymatic mechanism of CopC-catalyzed ADPR deacylization. Moreover, we capture a snapshot of the detachment of modified caspase-3 from CopC. These structural insights are validated by mutagenesis analyses of CopC-mediated ADPR deacylization in vitro and animal infection in vivo. Our study offers a structural framework for understanding the molecular basis of arginine ADPR deacylization catalyzed by the CopC family.
PXD037684	36423813	Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics Analysis of Human Substantia Nigra From Parkinson's Disease Patients Identifies Multiple Pathways Potentially Involved in the Disease. 	Mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis of human substantia nigra from Parkinson's disease patients identifies multiple pathways potentially involved in the disease	Parkinsons disease, human brain tissue, mitoribosomes, substantia nigra	Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) of the brain. Despite decades of studies, the precise pathogenic mechanism of PD is still elusive. An unbiased proteomic analysis of PD patient's brain allows the identification of critical proteins and molecular pathways that lead to dopamine cell death and alpha-synuclein deposition and the resulting devastating clinical symptoms. In this study, we conducted an in-depth proteome analysis of human SN tissues from 15 PD patients and 15 healthy control individuals combining Orbitrap mass spectrometry with the isobaric tandem mass tag-based multiplexing technology. We identified 10,040 proteins with 1140 differentially expressed proteins in the SN of PD patients. Pathway analysis showed that the ribosome pathway was the most enriched one, followed by gamma-aminobutyric acidergic synapse, retrograde endocannabinoid signaling, cell adhesion molecules, morphine addiction, Prion disease, and PD pathways. Strikingly, the majority of the proteins enriched in the ribosome pathway were mitochondrial ribosomal proteins (mitoribosomes). The subsequent protein-protein interaction analysis and the weighted gene coexpression network analysis confirmed that the mitoribosome is the most enriched protein cluster. Furthermore, the mitoribosome was also identified in our analysis of a replication set of ten PD and nine healthy control SN tissues. This study provides potential disease pathways involved in PD and paves the way to study further the pathogenic mechanism of PD.
PXD035500	36424392	Protein aggregation and calcium dysregulation are hallmarks of familial Parkinson's disease in midbrain dopaminergic neurons. 	Protein aggregation and calcium dysregulation are the earliest hallmarks of familial Parkinson's disease in human midbrain dopaminergic neurons	Alpha synuclein, Dopaminergic neurons, Proteomics and Parkinsonss disease, hiPSCs	Mutations in the SNCA gene cause autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD), with loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, and aggregation of alpha-synuclein. The sequence of molecular events that proceed from an SNCA mutation during development, to end-stage pathology is unknown. Utilising human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), we resolved the temporal sequence of SNCA-induced pathophysiological events in order to discover early, and likely causative, events. Our small molecule-based protocol generates highly enriched midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurons: molecular identity was confirmed using single-cell RNA sequencing and proteomics, and functional identity was established through dopamine synthesis, and measures of electrophysiological activity. At the earliest stage of differentiation, prior to maturation to mDA neurons, we demonstrate the formation of small beta-sheet-rich oligomeric aggregates, in SNCA-mutant cultures. Aggregation persists and progresses, ultimately resulting in the accumulation of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein aggregates. Impaired intracellular calcium signalling, increased basal calcium, and impairments in mitochondrial calcium handling occurred early at day 34-41 post differentiation. Once midbrain identity fully developed, at day 48-62 post differentiation, SNCA-mutant neurons exhibited mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, lysosomal swelling and increased autophagy. Ultimately these multiple cellular stresses lead to abnormal excitability, altered neuronal activity, and cell death. Our differentiation paradigm generates an efficient model for studying disease mechanisms in PD and highlights that protein misfolding to generate intraneuronal oligomers is one of the earliest critical events driving disease in human neurons, rather than a late-stage hallmark of the disease.
PXD033638	36424526	Structural basis of SNAPc-dependent snRNA transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II. 	Structural basis of SNAPc-dependent snRNA transcription intiation by RNA polymerase II	RNA polymerase II, snRNA	RNA polymerase II (Pol II) carries out transcription of both protein-coding and non-coding genes. Whereas Pol II initiation at protein-coding genes has been studied in detail, Pol II initiation at non-coding genes, such as small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes, is less well understood at the structural level. Here, we study Pol II initiation at snRNA gene promoters and show that the snRNA-activating protein complex (SNAPc) enables DNA opening and transcription initiation independent of TFIIE and TFIIH in vitro. We then resolve cryo-EM structures of the SNAPc-containing Pol IIpre-initiation complex (PIC) assembled on U1 and U5 snRNA promoters. The core of SNAPc binds two turns of DNA and recognizes the snRNA promoter-specific proximal sequence element (PSE), located upstream of the TATA box-binding protein TBP. Two extensions of SNAPc, called wing-1 and wing-2, bind TFIIA and TFIIB, respectively, explaining how SNAPc directs Pol II to snRNA promoters. Comparison of structures of closed and open promoter complexes elucidates TFIIH-independent DNA opening. These results provide the structural basis of Pol II initiation at non-coding RNA gene promoters.
PXD035953	36426076	Dataset for proteomic analysis of arylamine N-acetyltransferase 1 knockout MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. 	Proteomic Analysis of Arylamine N-Acetyltransferase 1 Knockout Breast Cancer Cells	MDA, NAT1, TMT10plex, breast cancer	Arylamine N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) is frequently upregulated in breast cancer. An unbiased analysis of proteomes of parental MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and two separate NAT1 knockout (KO) cell lines were performed. Among 4,890 proteins identified, 737 and 651 proteins were found significantly (p < 0.01) upregulated and downregulated, respectively, in NAT1 KO cells, compared to the parental cells. Each set of proteins was analyzed to identify Gene Ontology biological processes, molecular functions, and cellular components that were enriched in the set. Among the proteins upregulated in NAT1 KO cells, processes associated with MHC major histocompatibility complex I-mediated antigen presentation were significantly enriched. Multiple processes involved in mitochondrial functions were collectively downregulated in NAT1 KO cells, including multiple subunits of mitochondrial ATP synthase (Complex V of the electron transport chain). This was accompanied by a reduction in cell cycle-associated proteins and an increase in pro-apoptotic pathways in NAT1 KO cells. The current dataset contains additional representations of the biological processes and components that are differentially enriched in NAT1 KO MDA-MB-231 cells and will serve as a basis for generating novel hypotheses regarding the role of NAT1 in breast cancer. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD035953.
PXD030933	36427398	Short-term hypoxia triggers ROS and SAFB mediated nuclear matrix and mRNA splicing remodeling. 	Hypoxia-induced subnuclear re-distribution of SAFB1/2 alters their respective interactome	Hypoxia, Nuclear Matrix, SAFB1, SAFB2, Scaffold Attachment Factor, Splicing	The cellular response to hypoxia, in addition to HIF-dependent transcriptional reprogramming, also involves less characterized transcription-independent processes, such as alternative splicing of the VEGFA transcript leading to the production of the proangiogenic VEGF form. We now show that this event depends on reorganization of the splicing machinery, triggered after short-term hypoxia by ROS production and intranuclear redistribution of the nucleoskeletal proteins SAFB1/2. Exposure to low oxygen causes fast dissociation of SAFB1/2 from the nuclear matrix, which is reversible, inhibited by antioxidant treatment, and also observed under normoxia when the mitochondrial electron transport chain is blocked. This is accompanied by altered interactions between SAFB1/2 and the splicing machinery, translocation of kinase SRPK1 to the cytoplasm, and dephosphorylation of RS-splicing factors. Depletion of SAFB1/2 under normoxia phenocopies the hypoxic and ROS-mediated switch in VEGF mRNA splicing. These data suggest that ROS-dependent remodeling of the nuclear architecture can promote production of splicing variants that facilitate adaptation to hypoxia.
PXD028408	36427688	Extracellular matrix drives tumor organoids toward desmoplastic matrix deposition and mesenchymal transition. 	Patient-derived model combining organoids and matrix reveals cholangiocarcinoma promoting properties of the microenvironment	cholangiocarcionoma, extracellular matrix, liver, organoids, tissue culture	Patient-derived tumor organoids have been established as promising tools for in vitro modelling of multiple tumors, including cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). However, organoids are commonly cultured in basement membrane extract (BME) which does not recapitulate the intricacies of the extracellular matrix (ECM). We combined CCA organoids (CCAOs) with native tumor and liver scaffolds, obtained by decellularization, to effectuate a model to study the interaction between epithelial tumor cells and their surrounding ECM. Decellularization resulted in removal of cells while preserving ECM structure and retaining important characteristics of the tissue origin, including stiffness and presence of desmoplasia. The transcriptome of CCAOs in a tumor scaffold much more resembled that of patient-paired CCA tissue in vivo compared to CCAOs cultured in BME or liver scaffolds. This was accompanied by an increase in chemoresistance to clinically-relevant chemotherapeutics. CCAOs in decellularized scaffolds revealed environment-dependent proliferation dynamics, driven by the occurrence of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Furthermore, CCAOs initiated an environment-specific desmoplastic reaction by increasing production of multiple collagen types. In conclusion, convergence of organoid-based models with native ECM scaffolds will lead to better understanding of the in vivo tumor environment. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The extracellular matrix (ECM) influences various facets of tumor behavior. Understanding the exact role of the ECM in controlling tumor cell fate is pertinent to understand tumor progression and develop novel therapeutics. This is particularly the case for cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), whereby the ECM displays a distinct tumor environment, characterized by desmoplasia. However, current models to study the interaction between epithelial tumor cells and the environment are lacking. We have developed a fully patient-derived model encompassing CCA organoids (CCAOs) and human decellularized tumor and tumor-free liver ECM. The tumor ECM induced recapitulation of various aspects of CCA, including migration dynamics, transcriptome and proteome profiles, and chemoresistance. Lastly, we uncover that epithelial tumor cells contribute to matrix deposition, and that this phenomenon is dependent on the level of desmoplasia already present.
PXD033876	36428511	Unveiling Human Proteome Signatures of Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction. 	Unveiling human proteome signatures of heart failure with preserved ejection	heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, human myocardium ventricular samples, untargeted proteomics	Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a highly prevalent but still poorly understood clinical entity. Its current pathophysiological understanding supports a critical role of comorbidities and their chronic effect on cardiac function and structure. Importantly, despite the replication of some HFpEF phenotypic features, to this day, experimental models have failed to bring new effective therapies to the clinical setting. Thus, the direct investigation of HFpEF human myocardial samples may unveil key, and possibly human-specific, pathophysiological mechanisms. This study employed quantitative proteomic analysis by advanced mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) to investigate signaling pathways and pathophysiological mechanisms in HFpEF. Protein-expression profiles were analyzed in human left ventricular myocardial samples of HFpEF patients and compared with a mixed control group. Functional analysis revealed several proteins that correlate with HFpEF, including those associated with mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Despite the known disease heterogeneity, proteomic profiles could indicate a reduced mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and fatty-acid oxidation capacity in HFpEF patients with diabetes. The proteomic characterization described in this work provides new insights. Furthermore, it fosters further questions related to HFpEF cellular pathophysiology, paving the way for additional studies focused on developing novel therapies and diagnosis strategies for HFpEF patients.
PXD037118	36428603	Transcriptomic and Proteomic Profiles for Elucidating Cisplatin Resistance in Head-and-Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma. 	QUANTITATIVE PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS OF HUMAN CELL CULTURES USING TMT ISOBARIC TAG LABELLING AND NANOLC-ORBITRAP	Human nLC-MS	To identify the novel genes involved in chemoresistance in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), we explored the expression profiles of the following cisplatin (CDDP) resistant (R) versus parental (sensitive) cell lines by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq): JHU029, HTB-43 and CCL-138. Using the parental condition as a control, 30 upregulated and 85 downregulated genes were identified for JHU029-R cells; 263 upregulated and 392 downregulated genes for HTB-43-R cells, and 154 upregulated and 68 downregulated genes for CCL-138-R cells. Moreover, we crossed-checked the RNA-seq results with the proteomic profiles of HTB-43-R (versus HTB-43) and CCL-138-R (versus CCL-138) cell lines. For the HTB-43-R cells, 21 upregulated and 72 downregulated targets overlapped between the proteomic and transcriptomic data; whereas in CCL-138-R cells, four upregulated and three downregulated targets matched. Following an extensive literature search, six genes from the RNA-seq (CLDN1, MAGEB2, CD24, CEACAM6, IL1B and ISG15) and six genes from the RNA-seq and proteomics crossover (AKR1C3, TNFAIP2, RAB7A, LGALS3BP, PSCA and SSRP1) were selected to be studied by qRT-PCR in 11 HNSCC patients: six resistant and five sensitive to conventional therapy. Interestingly, the high MAGEB2 expression was associated with resistant tumours and is revealed as a novel target to sensitise resistant cells to therapy in HNSCC patients.
PXD029147	36428646	Combating Drug Resistance by Exploiting miRNA-200c-Controlled Phase II Detoxification. 	A proteomic analysis reveals novel miRNA-200c targets and altered signaling pathways in the field of detoxification	cancer, chemotherapy, glutathione S-transferase, miR-200c, microRNA	Acquired drug resistance constitutes a serious obstacle to the successful therapy of cancer. In the process of therapy resistance, microRNAs can play important roles. In order to combat resistance formation and to improve the efficacy of chemotherapeutics, the mechanisms of the multifaceted hsa-miR-200c on drug resistance were elucidated. Upon knockout of hsa-miR-200c in breast carcinoma cells, a proteomic approach identified altered expression of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) when cells were treated with the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin. In different hsa-miR-200c expression systems, such as knockout, inducible sponge and inducible overexpression, the differential expression of all members of the GST family was evaluated. Expression of hsa-miR-200c in cancer cells led to the repression of a multitude of these GSTs and as consequence, enhanced drug-induced tumor cell death which was evaluated for two chemotherapeutic drugs. Additionally, the influence of hsa-miR-200c on the glutathione pathway, which is part of the phase II detoxification mechanism, was investigated. Finally, the long-term effects of hsa-miR-200c on drug efficacy were studied in vitro and in vivo. Upon doxycycline induction of hsa-miR-200c, MDA-MB 231 xenograft mouse models revealed a strongly reduced tumor growth and an enhanced treatment response to doxorubicin. A combined treatment of these tumors with hsa-miR-200c and doxorubicin resulted in complete regression of the tumor in 60% of the animals. These results identify hsa-miR-200c as an important player regulating the cellular phase II detoxification, thus sensitizing cancer cells not expressing this microRNA to chemotherapeutics and reversing drug resistance through suppression of GSTs.
PXD035310	36428966	The Proteome of Neuromelanin Granules in Dementia with Lewy Bodies. 	The proteome of neuromelanin granules in dementia with Lewy bodies	Neuromelanin granules, dementia with Lewy bodies, neurodegeneration, stress granules, substantia nigra pars compacta	Neuromelanin granules (NMGs) are organelle-like structures present in the human substantia nigra pars compacta. In addition to neuromelanin, NMGs contain proteins, lipids and metals. As NMG-containing dopaminergic neurons are preferentially lost in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), it is assumed that NMGs may play a role in neurodegenerative processes. Until now, this role is not completely understood and needs further investigation. We therefore set up an exploratory proteomic study to identify differences in the proteomic profile of NMGs from DLB patients (n = 5) compared to healthy controls (CTRL, n = 5). We applied a laser microdissection and mass-spectrometry-based approach, in which we used targeted mass spectrometric experiments for validation. In NMG-surrounding (SNSurr.) tissue of DLB patients, we found evidence for ongoing oxidative damage and an impairment of protein degradation. As a potentially disease-related mechanism, we found alpha-synuclein and protein S100A9 to be enriched in NMGs of DLB cases, while the abundance of several ribosomal proteins was significantly decreased. As S100A9 is known to be able to enhance the formation of toxic alpha-synuclein fibrils, this finding points towards an involvement of NMGs in pathogenesis, however the exact role of NMGs as either neuroprotective or neurotoxic needs to be further investigated. Nevertheless, our study provides evidence for an impairment of protein degradation, ongoing oxidative damage and accumulation of potentially neurotoxic protein aggregates to be central mechanisms of neurodegeneration in DLB.
PXD031603	36429079	Expression and Interaction Proteomics of GluA1- and GluA3-Subunit-Containing AMPARs Reveal Distinct Protein Composition. 	Interactomes of GluA1 and GluA3 subunit containing AMPARs reveal distinct protein composition	AMPAR, GluA1/2, GluA2/3, MS-DAP, PRRT1, TARP- gamma8, subcomplexes	The AMPA glutamate receptor (AMPAR) is the major type of synaptic excitatory ionotropic receptor in the brain. AMPARs have four different subunits, GluA1-4 (each encoded by different genes, Gria1, Gria2, Gria3 and Gria4), that can form distinct tetrameric assemblies. The most abundant AMPAR subtypes in the hippocampus are GluA1/2 and GluA2/3 heterotetramers. Each subtype contributes differentially to mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, which may be in part caused by how these receptors are regulated by specific associated proteins. A broad range of AMPAR interacting proteins have been identified, including the well-studied transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins TARP-gamma2 (also known as Stargazin) and TARP-gamma8, Cornichon homolog 2 (CNIH-2) and many others. Several interactors were shown to affect biogenesis, AMPAR trafficking, and channel properties, alone or in distinct assemblies, and several revealed preferred binding to specific AMPAR subunits. To date, a systematic specific interactome analysis of the major GluA1/2 and GluA2/3 AMPAR subtypes separately is lacking. To reveal interactors belonging to specific AMPAR subcomplexes, we performed both expression and interaction proteomics on hippocampi of wildtype and Gria1- or Gria3 knock-out mice. Whereas GluA1/2 receptors co-purified TARP-gamma8, synapse differentiation-induced protein 4 (SynDIG4, also known as Prrt1) and CNIH-2 with highest abundances, GluA2/3 receptors revealed strongest co-purification of CNIH-2, TARP-gamma2, and Noelin1 (or Olfactomedin-1). Further analysis revealed that TARP-gamma8-SynDIG4 interact directly and co-assemble into an AMPAR subcomplex especially at synaptic sites. Together, these data provide a framework for further functional analysis into AMPAR subtype specific pathways in health and disease.
PXD034134	36429203	Quantitative Acetylome Analysis of Soft Wheat Seeds during Artificial Ageing. 	Lysine acetylation contributes to artificial ageing in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seeds.	artificial ageing, lysine acetylation, wheat	Lysine acetylation (Kac) is a protein post-translational modification (PTM) widely found in plants that plays vital roles in metabolic pathways. Although seed germination and development are regulated by Kac, its potential function in seed ageing remains to be investigated. Our preliminary study demonstrated that Kac levels were altered during wheat seed artificial ageing. However, its specific role in this process still needs to be elucidated. Here, we performed quantitative acetylation proteomics analysis of soft wheat seeds with different germination rates during artificial ageing. A total of 175 acetylation proteins and 255 acetylation modification sites were remarkably changed. The differentially acetylated proteins were enriched in metabolism; response to harsh intracellular environment, such as ROS; protein storage and processing. Notably, expression, point mutation to mimic Kac by K to Q mutation at K80 and K138, protein purification and enzyme activity detection revealed that the Kac of ROS-scavenging glutathione transferase attenuated its activity, indicating that the defense ability of wheat seeds to stress gradually diminished, and the ageing process was inevitable. Collectively, our data provide a basis for further understanding the roles of Kac in seed ageing and might aid in the development of new techniques to prolong seed viability and food quality.
PXD037341	36430211	Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomic and Metabolomic Profiling of Serum Samples for Discovery and Validation of Tuberculosis Diagnostic Biomarker Signature. 	Tuberculosis diagnostic biomarker signature by proteomics and metabolomics	Biomarkers, Blood Serum, Diagnosis, Mass-Spectrometry, Multiomics, Tuberculosis	Tuberculosis (TB) is a transmissible disease listed as one of the 10 leading causes of death worldwide (10 million infected in 2019). A swift and precise diagnosis is essential to forestall its transmission, for which the discovery of effective diagnostic biomarkers is crucial. In this study, we aimed to discover molecular biomarkers for the early diagnosis of tuberculosis. Two independent cohorts comprising 29 and 34 subjects were assayed by proteomics, and 49 were included for metabolomic analysis. All subjects were arranged into three experimental groups--healthy controls (controls), latent TB infection (LTBI), and TB patients. LC-MS/MS blood serum protein and metabolite levels were submitted to univariate, multivariate, and ROC analysis. From the 149 proteins quantified in the discovery set, 25 were found to be differentially abundant between controls and TB patients. The AUC, specificity, and sensitivity, determined by ROC statistical analysis of the model composed of four of these proteins considering both proteomic sets, were 0.96, 93%, and 91%, respectively. The five metabolites (9-methyluric acid, indole-3-lactic acid, trans-3-indoleacrylic acid, hexanoylglycine, and N-acetyl-L-leucine) that better discriminate the control and TB patient groups (VIP > 1.75) from a total of 92 metabolites quantified in both ionization modes were submitted to ROC analysis. An AUC = 1 was determined, with all samples being correctly assigned to the respective experimental group. An integrated ROC analysis enrolling one protein and four metabolites was also performed for the common control and TB patients in the proteomic and metabolomic groups. This combined signature correctly assigned the 12 controls and 12 patients used only for prediction (AUC = 1, specificity = 100%, and sensitivity = 100%). This multiomics approach revealed a biomarker signature for tuberculosis diagnosis that could be potentially used for developing a point-of-care diagnosis clinical test.
PXD037241	36430310	Rapid Proteomic Characterization of Bacteriocin-Producing Enterococcus faecium Strains from Foodstuffs. 	Bacteriocin producing Enterococcus faecium	Enterococcus, bacteriocins	Enterococcus belongs to a group of microorganisms known as lactic acid bacteria (LAB), which constitute a broad heterogeneous group of generally food-grade microorganisms historically used in food preservation. Enterococci live as commensals of the gastrointestinal tract of warm-blooded animals, although they also are present in food of animal origin (milk, cheese, fermented sausages), vegetables, and plant materials because of their ability to survive heat treatments and adverse environmental conditions. The biotechnological traits of enterococci can be applied in the food industry; however, the emergence of enterococci as a cause of nosocomial infections makes their food status uncertain. Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing allow the subtyping of bacterial pathogens, but it cannot reflect the temporal dynamics and functional activities of microbiomes or bacterial isolates. Moreover, genetic analysis is based on sequence homologies, inferring functions from databases. Here, we used an end-to-end proteomic workflow to rapidly characterize two bacteriocin-producing Enterococcus faecium (Efm) strains. The proteome analysis was performed with liquid chromatography coupled to a trapped ion mobility spectrometry-time-of-flight mass spectrometry instrument (TimsTOF) for high-throughput and high-resolution characterization of bacterial proteins. Thus, we identified almost half of the proteins predicted in the bacterial genomes (>1100 unique proteins per isolate), including quantifying proteins conferring resistance to antibiotics, heavy metals, virulence factors, and bacteriocins. The obtained proteomes were annotated according to function, resulting in 22 complete KEGG metabolic pathway modules for both strains. The workflow used here successfully characterized these bacterial isolates and showed great promise for determining and optimizing the bioengineering and biotechnology properties of other LAB strains in the food industry.
PXD026115	36430335	Protein Alterations in Cardiac Ischemia/Reperfusion Revealed by Spatial-Omics. 	Protein changes in the infarct region of ischemia/reperfused rat hearts revealed by spatialOMx	LMD, MALDI-MSI, ischemia-reperfusion, protein, rat heart, spatialOMx	Myocardial infarction is the most common cause of death worldwide. An understanding of the alterations in protein pathways is needed in order to develop strategies that minimize myocardial damage. To identify the protein signature of cardiac ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury in rats, we combined, for the first time, protein matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI-MSI) and label-free proteomics on the same tissue section placed on a conductive slide. Wistar rats were subjected to I/R surgery and sacrificed after 24 h. Protein MALDI-MSI data revealed ischemia specific regions, and distinct profiles for the infarct core and border. Firstly, the infarct core, compared to histologically unaffected tissue, showed a significant downregulation of cardiac biomarkers, while an upregulation was seen for coagulation and immune response proteins. Interestingly, within the infarct tissue, alterations in the cytoskeleton reorganization and inflammation were found. This work demonstrates that a single tissue section can be used for protein-based spatial-omics, combining MALDI-MSI and label-free proteomics. Our workflow offers a new methodology to investigate the mechanisms of cardiac I/R injury at the protein level for new strategies to minimize damage after MI.
PXD032280	36430609	The Functional Characteristics of Goat Cheese Microbiota from a One-Health Perspective. 	Metaproteomics analysis of the Caprino Nicastrese cheese	metaproteomics, microbiota, traditional dairy products	Goat cheese is an important element of the Mediterranean diet, appreciated for its health-promoting features and unique taste. A pivotal role in the development of these characteristics is attributed to the microbiota and its continuous remodeling over space and time. Nevertheless, no thorough study of the cheese-associated microbiota using two metaomics approaches has previously been conducted. Here, we employed 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metaproteomics to explore the microbiota of a typical raw goat milk cheese at various ripening timepoints and depths of the cheese wheel. The 16S rRNA gene-sequencing and metaproteomics results described a stable microbiota ecology across the selected ripening timepoints, providing evidence for the microbiologically driven fermentation of goat milk products. The important features of the microbiota harbored on the surface and in the core of the cheese mass were highlighted in both compositional and functional terms. We observed the rind microbiota struggling to maintain the biosafety of the cheese through competition mechanisms and/or by preventing the colonization of the cheese by pathobionts of animal or environmental origin. The core microbiota was focused on other biochemical processes, supporting its role in the development of both the health benefits and the pleasant gustatory nuances of goat cheese.
PXD036654	36430812	Scalable Generation of Nanovesicles from Human-Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells for Cardiac Repair. 	iPSC nanovesicles cardiac cell repair	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), cardiac repair, cell reprogramming, iPSC, nanovesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from stem cells have shown significant therapeutic potential to repair injured cardiac tissues and regulate pathological fibrosis. However, scalable generation of stem cells and derived EVs for clinical utility remains a huge technical challenge. Here, we report a rapid size-based extrusion strategy to generate EV-like membranous nanovesicles (NVs) from easily sourced human iPSCs in large quantities (yield 900x natural EVs). NVs isolated using density-gradient separation (buoyant density 1.13 g/mL) are spherical in shape and morphologically intact and readily internalised by human cardiomyocytes, primary cardiac fibroblasts, and endothelial cells. NVs captured the dynamic proteome of parental cells and include pluripotency markers (LIN28A, OCT4) and regulators of cardiac repair processes, including tissue repair (GJA1, HSP20/27/70, HMGB1), wound healing (FLNA, MYH9, ACTC1, ILK), stress response/translation initiation (eIF2S1/S2/S3/B4), hypoxia response (HMOX2, HSP90, GNB1), and extracellular matrix organization (ITGA6, MFGE8, ITGB1). Functionally, NVs significantly promoted tubule formation of endothelial cells (angiogenesis) (p < 0.05) and survival of cardiomyocytes exposed to low oxygen conditions (hypoxia) (p < 0.0001), as well as attenuated TGF-beta mediated activation of cardiac fibroblasts (p < 0.0001). Quantitative proteome profiling of target cell proteome following NV treatments revealed upregulation of angiogenic proteins (MFGE8, MYH10, VDAC2) in endothelial cells and pro-survival proteins (CNN2, THBS1, IGF2R) in cardiomyocytes. In contrast, NVs attenuated TGF-beta-driven extracellular matrix remodelling capacity in cardiac fibroblasts (ACTN1, COL1A1/2/4A2/12A1, ITGA1/11, THBS1). This study presents a scalable approach to generating functional NVs for cardiac repair.
PXD036682	36433951	Restoring cellular magnesium balance through Cyclin M4 protects against acetaminophen-induced liver damage. 	Restoring cellular magnesium balance through Cyclin M4  protects against acetaminophen-induced liver damag	Acetaminophen (APAP), CNNM4, acute liver failulre (ALF), drug-induced liver damage (DILI), label free	Acetaminophen overdose is one of the leading causes of acute liver failure and liver transplantation in the Western world. Magnesium is essential in several cellular processess. The Cyclin M family is involved in magnesium transport across cell membranes. Herein, we identify that among all magnesium transporters, only Cyclin M4 expression is upregulated in the liver of patients with acetaminophen overdose, with disturbances in magnesium serum levels. In the liver, acetaminophen interferes with the mitochondrial magnesium reservoir via Cyclin M4, affecting ATP production and reactive oxygen species generation, further boosting endoplasmic reticulum stress. Importantly, Cyclin M4 mutant T495I, which impairs magnesium flux, shows no effect. Finally, an accumulation of Cyclin M4 in endoplasmic reticulum is shown under hepatoxicity. Based on our studies in mice, silencing hepatic Cyclin M4 within the window of 6 to 24 h following acetaminophen overdose ingestion may represent a therapeutic target for acetaminophen overdose induced liver injury.
PXD038302	36434024	Proteomics reveals unique identities of human TGF-beta-induced and thymus-derived CD4(+) regulatory T cells. 	Proteomics reveals unique identities of human TGF-beta-induced and thymus-derived CD4+ regulatory T cells	TGF-beta, Tconv, Treg, conventional T cell, iTreg, induced regulatory T cell, regulatory T cell, tTreg, thymus-derived regulatory T cell	The CD4(+) regulatory T (Treg) cell lineage, defined by FOXP3 expression, comprises thymus-derived (t)Treg cells and peripherally induced (p)Treg cells. As a model for Treg cells, studies employ TGF-beta-induced (i)Treg cells generated from CD4(+) conventional T (Tconv) cells in vitro. Here, we describe how human iTreg cells relate to human blood-derived tTreg and Tconv cells according to proteomic analysis. Each of these cell populations had a unique protein expression pattern. iTreg cells had very limited overlap in protein expression with tTreg cells, regardless of cell activation status and instead shared signaling and metabolic proteins with Tconv cells. tTreg cells had a uniquely modest response to CD3/CD28-mediated stimulation. As a benchmark, we used a previously defined proteomic signature that discerns ex vivo naive and effector Treg cells from Tconv cells and includes conserved Treg cell properties. iTreg cells largely lacked this Treg cell core signature and highly expressed e.g. STAT4 and NFATC2, which may contribute to inflammatory responses. We also used a proteomic signature that distinguishes ex vivo effector Treg cells from Tconv cells and naive Treg cells. iTreg cells contained part of this effector Treg cell signature, suggesting acquisition of pTreg cell features. In conclusion, iTreg cells are distinct from tTreg cells and share limited features with ex vivo Treg cells at the proteomic level.
PXD022382	36434320	Renal FGF23 signaling depends on redox protein Memo1 and promotes orthovanadate-sensitive protein phosphotyrosyl phosphatase activity. 	Memo1 promotes FGF23-driven signaling by oxidative modulation of small Rho-GTPases and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity	ARHGDIA, Memo1, RhoGDI1, cysteine oxidation, redox signaling	Memo1 deletion in mice causes premature aging and an unbalanced metabolism partially resembling Fgf23 and Klotho loss-of-function animals. We report a role for Memo's redox function in renal FGF23-Klotho signaling using mice with postnatally induced Memo deficiency in the whole body (cKO). Memo cKO mice showed impaired FGF23-driven renal ERK phosphorylation and transcriptional responses. FGF23 actions involved activation of oxidation-sensitive protein phosphotyrosyl phosphatases in the kidney. Redox proteomics revealed excessive thiols of Rho-GDP dissociation inhibitor 1 (Rho-GDI1) in Memo cKO, and we detected a functional interaction between Memo's redox function and oxidation at Rho-GDI1 Cys79. In isolated cellular systems, Rho-GDI1 did not directly affect FGF23-driven cell signaling, but we detected disturbed Rho-GDI1 dependent small Rho-GTPase protein abundance and activity in the kidney of Memo cKO mice. Collectively, this study reveals previously unknown layers in the regulation of renal FGF23 signaling and connects Memo with the network of small Rho-GTPases.
PXD035786	36435045	Pivotal biological processes and proteins for selenite reduction and methylation in Ganoderma lucidum. 	Selenite metabolism and reduction in Ganoderma lucidum	selenite reduction	Microbial transformations, especially the reduction and methylation of Se oxyanion, have gained significance in recent years as effective detoxification methods. Ganoderma lucidum is a typical Se enrichment resource that can reduce selenite to elemental Se and volatile Se metabolites under high selenite conditions. However, the detailed biological processes and reduction mechanisms are unclear. In this study, G. lucidum reduced selenite to elemental Se and further aggregated it into Se nanoparticles with a diameter of < 200 nm, simultaneously accompanied by the production of pungent, odorous, and volatile methyl-selenium metabolites. Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomic analysis revealed thioredoxin 1, thioredoxin reductase (NADPH), glutathione reductase, 5-methyltetrahydropteroyltriglutamate-homocysteine methyltransferase, and cystathionine gamma-lyase as proteins involved in selenite reduction and methylation. Furthermore, the high expression of proteins associated with cell structures that prompted cell lysis may have facilitated Se release. The upregulation of proteins involved in the defense reactions was also detected, reflecting their roles in the self-defense mechanism. This study provides novel insights into the vital role of G. lucidum in mediating Se transformation in the biogeochemical Se cycle and contributes to the application of fungi in Se bioremediation.
PXD033659	36435333	Direct Proteomic Detection and Prioritization of 19 Onchocerciasis Biomarker Candidates in Humans. 	The identification of onchocerciasis biomarker candidates directly in human serum and urine	Onchocerca volvulus, Onchocerciasis, biomarker, serum, urine	Onchocerca volvulus, the causative agent of onchocerciasis, infects over 20 million people and can cause severe dermatitis and ocular conditions including blindness. Current treatments employed in mass drug administration programs do not kill adult female worms, and common diagnostic tests cannot reliably assess viability of adult worms. There is an urgent need for better diagnostic tests to facilitate monitoring the efficacy of new treatments and disease elimination efforts. Here, eight plasma samples collected from individuals infected with O. volvulus and seven from uninfected individuals were analyzed by MS/MS spectrometry to directly identify O. volvulus proteins present in infected but absent in uninfected control samples. This direct proteomic approach for biomarker discovery had not been previously employed for onchocerciasis. Among all detected proteins, 19 biomarker candidates were supported by two or more unique peptides, identified in the plasma of at least three O. volvulus-infected human samples and absent in all control samples. Comprehensive analysis and ranking of these candidates included detailed functional annotation and a review of RNA-seq gene expression profiles. Isotope-labeled standard peptides were run in parallel and validated MS/MS peptide identifications for 15 peptides from 11 of the 19 proteins, and two infected urine and one uninfected urine sample was used for additional validation. A major antigen/OVOC11613 was identified as the most promising candidate with eight unique peptides across five plasma samples and one urine sample. Additional strong candidates included OVOC1523/ATP synthase, OVOC247/laminin and OVOC11626/PLK5, and along with OVOC11613, and were also detected in urine samples from onchocerciasis patients. This study has identified a promising novel set of proteins that will be carried forward to develop assays that can be used for diagnosis of O. volvulus infections and for monitoring treatment efficacy.
PXD029126	36436181	Peptide-based LDH5 inhibitors enter cancer cells and impair proliferation. 	Redesigned peptide-based LDH5 inhibitors enter cancer cells efficiently and impair proliferation	Lactate dehydrogenase, peptide inhibitors	Lactate dehydrogenase 5 (LDH5) is overexpressed in many cancers and is a potential target for anticancer therapy due to its role in aerobic glycolysis. Small-molecule drugs have been developed as competitive inhibitors to bind substrate/cofactor sites of LDH5, but none reached the clinic to date. Recently, we designed the first LDH5 non-competitive inhibitor, cGmC9, a peptide that inhibits protein-protein interactions required for LDH5 enzymatic activity. Peptides are gaining a large interest as anticancer agents to modulate intracellular protein-protein interactions not targetable by small molecules; however, delivery of these peptides to the cytosol, where LDH5 and other anticancer targets are located, remains a challenge for this class of therapeutics. In this study, we focused on the cellular internalisation of cGmC9 to achieve LDH5 inhibition in the cytosol. We designed cGmC9 analogues and compared them for LDH5 inhibition, cellular uptake, toxicity, and antiproliferation against a panel of cancer cell lines. The lead analogue, [R/r]cGmC9, specifically impairs proliferation of cancer cell lines with high glycolytic profiles. Proteomics analysis showed expected metabolic changes in response to decreased glycolysis. This is the first report of a peptide-based LDH5 inhibitor able to modulate cancer metabolism and kill cancer cells that are glycolytic. The current study demonstrates the potential of using peptides as inhibitors of intracellular protein-protein interactions relevant for cancer pathways and shows that active peptides can be rationally designed to improve their cell permeation.
PXD037688	36437877	Across-cancer specific immune responses induced by nanovaccines or microvaccines to prevent different cancers and cancer metastasis. 	Across-cancer immune responses induced by nanovaccines or microvaccines to prevent different cancers and cancer metastasis	Across-cancer, Tumor tissue, cancer vaccine, cross-react immune responses, microvaccines, nanovaccines	Metastatic cancers and recurrent cancers are diverse, different from primary cancers, and organ-dependent. However, how strong are across-cancer immune responses among different types of cancers remain unclear. Herein, vaccines-encapsulated-whole-components-of-tumor-tissue (VEWCOTT) were applied to demonstrate the across-cancer immune responses, thanks to inducing pan-clones T-cell immune responses. Either lung-cancer-tissue- or melanoma-tissue-based VEWCOTT simultaneously prevented melanoma, lung cancer, hepatoma, and metastatic cancer, which showed that strong across-cancer immune responses were induced. Both nanovaccines and microvaccines showed potent across-cancer prevention efficacy. VEWCOTT induced tumor-specific T cells in peripheral immune organs and major organs, and adjusted the immune-microenvironment of cancer-colonized organs. In addition, the allograft of T cells from VEWCOTT immunized mice to allogeneic naive mice efficiently prevent various cancers. Many neoantigens are shared by melanoma cells and lung cancer cells. Across-cancer immune responses exist among different types of cancers, and thus VEWCOTT has the advantage of simultaneously preventing cancer metastasis and cancers in different organs.
PXD036664	36439224	Three types of Leishmania mexicana amastigotes: Proteome comparison by quantitative proteomic analysis. 	Three types of Leishmania mexicana amastigotes: proteome comparison by quantitative proteomic analysis	L. mexicana, amastigotes	Leishmania is the unicellular parasite transmitted by phlebotomine sand fly bite. It exists in two different forms; extracellular promastigotes, occurring in the gut of sand flies, and intracellular, round-shaped amastigotes residing mainly in vertebrate macrophages. As amastigotes originating from infected animals are often present in insufficient quality and quantity, two alternative types of amastigotes were introduced for laboratory experiments: axenic amastigotes and amastigotes from macrophages infected in vitro. Nevertheless, there is very little information about the degree of similarity/difference among these three types of amastigotes on proteomic level, whose comparison is crucial for assessing the suitability of using alternative types of amastigotes in experiments. In this study, L. mexicana amastigotes obtained from lesion of infected BALB/c mice were proteomically compared with alternatively cultivated amastigotes (axenic and macrophage-derived ones). Amastigotes of all three types were isolated, individually treated and analysed by LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis with quantification using TMT(10)-plex isobaric labeling. Significant differences were observed in the abundance of metabolic enzymes, virulence factors and proteins involved in translation and condensation of DNA. The most pronounced differences were observed between axenic amastigotes and lesion-derived amastigotes, macrophage-derived amastigotes were mostly intermediate between axenic and lesion-derived ones.
PXD035582	36440974	Expanded roles and divergent regulation of FAMA in Brachypodium and Arabidopsis stomatal development. 	Co-Immunoprecipitation of transcriptional regulators of stomatal development in B. distachyon	Brachypodium distachyon, bHLH transcription factor, co-immunoprecipitation, interaction partners, stomatal development	Stomata, cellular valves found on the surfaces of aerial plant tissues, present a paradigm for studying cell fate and patterning in plants. A highly conserved core set of related basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors regulates stomatal development across diverse species. We characterized BdFAMA in the temperate grass Brachypodium distachyon and found this late-acting transcription factor was necessary and sufficient for specifying stomatal guard cell fate, and unexpectedly, could also induce the recruitment of subsidiary cells in the absence of its paralogue, BdMUTE. The overlap in function is paralleled by an overlap in expression pattern and by unique regulatory relationships between BdMUTE and BdFAMA. To better appreciate the relationships among the Brachypodium stomatal bHLHs, we used in vivo proteomics in developing leaves and found evidence for multiple shared interaction partners. We reexamined the roles of these genes in Arabidopsis thaliana by testing genetic sufficiency within and across species, and found that while BdFAMA and AtFAMA can rescue stomatal production in Arabidopsis fama and mute mutants, only AtFAMA can specify Brassica-specific myrosin idioblasts. Taken together, our findings refine the current models of stomatal bHLH function and regulatory feedback among paralogues within grasses as well as across the monocot/dicot divide.
PXD036545	36440987	A dynamic phosphoproteomic analysis provides insight into the C4 plant maize (Zea mays L.) response to natural diurnal changes. 	A dynamic phosphoproteomic analysis provides a comprehensive understanding of the C4 plant maize response to natural diurnal changes	C4, Maize, kinase-substrate network, light and temperature, phosphoproteome	As sessile organisms, plants need to respond to rapid changes in numerous environmental factors, mainly diurnal changes of light, temperature, and humidity. Maize is the world's most grown crop, and as a C4 plant it exhibits high photosynthesis capacity, reaching the highest rate of net photosynthesis at midday; that is, there is no "midday depression." Revealing the physiological responses to diurnal changes and underlying mechanisms will be of great significance for guiding maize improvement efforts. In this study, we collected maize leaf samples and analyzed the proteome and phosphoproteome at nine time points during a single day/night cycle, quantifying 7424 proteins and 5361 phosphosites. The new phosphosites identified in our study increased the total maize phosphoproteome coverage by 8.5%. Kinase-substrate network analysis indicated that 997 potential substrates were phosphorylated by 20 activated kinases. Through analysis of proteins with significant changes in abundance and phosphorylation, we found that the response to a heat stimulus involves a change in the abundance of numerous proteins. By contrast, the high light at noon and rapidly changing light conditions induced changes in the phosphorylation level of proteins involved in processes such as chloroplast movement, photosynthesis, and C4 pathways. Phosphorylation is involved in regulating the activity of large number of enzymes; for example, phosphorylation of S55 significantly enhanced the activity of maize phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase1 (ZmPEPCK1). Overall, the database of dynamic protein abundance and phosphorylation we have generated provides a resource for the improvement of C4 crop plants.
PXD035879	36441024	TFEB acetylation promotes lysosome biogenesis and ameliorates Alzheimer's disease-relevant phenotypes in mice. 	MS analysis of human TFEB posttranslational modification	TFEB, acetylation, phosphorylation, ubiquitination	Lysosomes are one of the major centers for regulating cargo degradation and protein quality control. Transcription factor EB (TFEB)-promoted lysosome biogenesis enhances lysosome-mediated degradation and alleviates neurodegenerative diseases, but the mechanisms underlying TFEB modification and activation are still poorly understood. Here, we report essential roles of TFEB acetylation in TFEB nuclear translocation and lysosome biogenesis, which are independent of TFEB dephosphorylation. By screening small molecules, we find that Trichostatin A (TSA), the pan-inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDACs), promotes nuclear translocation of TFEB. TSA enhances the staining of cells by LysoTracker Red and increases the expression of lysosomal and autophagic genes. We identify four novel acetylated lysine residues in TFEB, which are important for TFEB nuclear translocation and lysosome biogenesis. We show that TFEB acetylation is regulated by HDACs (HDAC5, HDAC6, and HDAC9) and lysine acetyltransferases (KATs), including ELP3, CREBBP, and HAT1. During TSA-induced cytosol-to-nucleus translocation of TFEB, acetylation is independent of TFEB dephosphorylation, since the mTORC1- or GSK3beta-related phosphorylation sites on TFEB are still phosphorylated. Administration of TSA to APP/PS1 mice increases the expression of lysosomal and autophagic genes in mouse brains and also improves memory. Accordingly, the beta-amyloid plaque burden is decreased. These results show that the acetylation of TFEB, as a novel mechanism of TFEB activation, promotes lysosome biogenesis and alleviates the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Our results also suggest that HDAC inhibition can promote lysosome biogenesis, and this may be a potential therapeutic approach for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and disorders related to HDAC hyperactivation.
PXD033336	36442106	The human pathobiont Malassezia furfur secreted protease Mfsap1 regulates cell dispersal and exacerbates skin inflammation. 	The human pathobiont Malassezia furfur secreted protease MfSAP1 regulates cell dispersal and exacerbates skin inflammation	colonization, extracellular matrix, fungi, inflammation, label free quantification, protease, skin	Malassezia form the dominant eukaryotic microbial community on the human skin. The Malassezia genus possesses a repertoire of secretory hydrolytic enzymes involved in protein and lipid metabolism which alter the external cutaneous environment. The exact role of most Malassezia secreted enzymes, including those in interaction with the epithelial surface, is not well characterized. In this study, we compared the expression level of secreted proteases, lipases, phospholipases, and sphingomyelinases of Malassezia globosa in healthy subjects and seborrheic dermatitis or atopic dermatitis patients. We observed upregulated gene expression of the previously characterized secretory aspartyl protease MGSAP1 in both diseased groups, in lesional and non-lesional skin sites, as compared to healthy subjects. To explore the functional roles of MGSAP1 in skin disease, we generated a knockout mutant of the homologous protease MFSAP1 in the genetically tractable Malassezia furfur. We observed the loss of MFSAP1 resulted in dramatic changes in the cell adhesion and dispersal in both culture and a human 3D reconstituted epidermis model. In a murine model of Malassezia colonization, we further demonstrated Mfsap1 contributes to inflammation as observed by reduced edema and inflammatory cell infiltration with the knockout mutant versus wildtype. Taken together, we show that this dominant secretory Malassezia aspartyl protease has an important role in enabling a planktonic cellular state that can potentially aid in colonization and additionally as a virulence factor in barrier-compromised skin, further highlighting the importance of considering the contextual relevance when evaluating the functions of secreted microbial enzymes.
PXD029601	36442911	Patient-derived Siglec-6-targeting antibodies engineered for T-cell recruitment have potential therapeutic utility in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 	Patient-derived anti-Siglec-6 antibodies engineered into T cell-recruiting bispecific antibody formats for treating leukemia	Antibody, HDX-MS, Siglec-6	BACKGROUND: Despite numerous therapeutic options, safe and curative therapy is unavailable for most patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A drawback of current therapies such as the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody (mAb) rituximab is the elimination of all healthy B cells, resulting in impaired humoral immunity. We previously reported the identification of a patient-derived, CLL-binding mAb, JML-1, and identified sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin-6 (Siglec-6) as the target of JML-1. Although little is known about Siglec-6, it appears to be an attractive target for cancer immunotherapy due to its absence on most healthy cells and tissues. METHODS: We used a target-specific approach to mine for additional patient-derived anti-Siglec-6 mAbs. To assess the therapeutic utility of targeting Siglec-6 in the context of CLL, T cell-recruiting bispecific antibodies (T-biAbs) that bind to Siglec-6 and CD3 were engineered into single-chain variable fragment-Fc and dual-affinity retargeting (DART)-Fc constructs. T-biAbs were evaluated for their activity in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo. RESULTS: We discovered the anti-Siglec-6 mAbs RC-1 and RC-2, which bind with higher affinity than JML-1 yet maintain similar specificity. Both JML-1 and RC-1 T-biAbs were effective at activating T cells and killing Siglec-6(+) target cells. The RC-1 clone in the DART-Fc format was the most potent T-biAb tested and was the only anti-Siglec-6 T-biAb that eliminated Siglec-6(+) primary CLL cells via autologous T cells at pathological T-to-CLL cell ratios. Tested at healthy T-to-B cell ratios, it also eliminated a Siglec-6(+) fraction of primary B cells from healthy donors. The subpicomolar potency of the DART-Fc format was attributed to the reduction in the length and flexibility of the cytolytic synapse. Furthermore, the RC-1 T-biAb was effective at clearing MEC1 CLL cells in vivo and demonstrated a circulatory half-life of over 7 days. CONCLUSION: Siglec-6-targeting T-biAbs are highly potent and specific for eliminating Siglec-6(+) leukemic and healthy B cells while sparing Siglec-6(-) healthy B cells, suggesting a unique treatment strategy for CLL with diminished suppression of humoral immunity. Our data corroborate reports that T-biAb efficacy is dependent on synapse geometry and reveal that synapse architecture can be tuned via antibody engineering. Our fully human anti-Siglec-6 antibodies and T-biAbs have potential for cancer immunotherapy. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT00923507.
PXD033883	36443290	PCGF1-PRC1 links chromatin repression with DNA replication during hematopoietic cell lineage commitment. 	PCGF1-PRC1 safeguards recovery of nucleosome positioning during S-phase to ensure early hematopoiesis	PCGF1, mouse immunoprecipitation	Polycomb group proteins (PcG), polycomb repressive complexes 1 and 2 (PRC1 and 2), repress lineage inappropriate genes during development to maintain proper cellular identities. It has been recognized that PRC1 localizes at the replication fork, however, the precise functions of PRC1 during DNA replication are elusive. Here, we reveal that a variant PRC1 containing PCGF1 (PCGF1-PRC1) prevents overloading of activators and chromatin remodeling factors on nascent DNA and thereby mediates proper deposition of nucleosomes and correct downstream chromatin configurations in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). This function of PCGF1-PRC1 in turn facilitates PRC2-mediated repression of target genes such as Hmga2 and restricts premature myeloid differentiation. PCGF1-PRC1, therefore, maintains the differentiation potential of HSPCs by linking proper nucleosome configuration at the replication fork with PcG-mediated gene silencing to ensure life-long hematopoiesis.
PXD032782	36443293	Experimental evidence for temporal uncoupling of brain Abeta deposition and neurodegenerative sequelae. 	CSF proteomics of the APPPS1 Alzheimer mouse model with life long BACE inhibition	APPPS1, Alzheimer disease, BACE, CSF, cerebrospinal fluid	Brain Abeta deposition is a key early event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the long presymptomatic phase and poor correlation between Abeta deposition and clinical symptoms remain puzzling. To elucidate the dependency of downstream pathologies on Abeta, we analyzed the trajectories of cerebral Abeta accumulation, Abeta seeding activity, and neurofilament light chain (NfL) in the CSF (a biomarker of neurodegeneration) in Abeta-precursor protein transgenic mice. We find that Abeta deposition increases linearly until it reaches an apparent plateau at a late age, while Abeta seeding activity increases more rapidly and reaches a plateau earlier, coinciding with the onset of a robust increase of CSF NfL. Short-term inhibition of Abeta generation in amyloid-laden mice reduced Abeta deposition and associated glial changes, but failed to reduce Abeta seeding activity, and CSF NfL continued to increase although at a slower pace. When short-term or long-term inhibition of Abeta generation was started at pre-amyloid stages, CSF NfL did not increase despite some Abeta deposition, microglial activation, and robust brain Abeta seeding activity. A dissociation of Abeta load and CSF NfL trajectories was also found in familial AD, consistent with the view that Abeta aggregation is not kinetically coupled to neurotoxicity. Rather, neurodegeneration starts when Abeta seeding activity is saturated and before Abeta deposition reaches critical (half-maximal) levels, a phenomenon reminiscent of the two pathogenic phases in prion disease.
PXD037718	36443297	A p38alpha-BLIMP1 signalling pathway is essential for plasma cell differentiation. 	MS data of phosphorylation sites of IRF4/TCF3/TCF4 by p38alpha	p38alpha, phosphorylation	Plasma cells (PC) are antibody-secreting cells and terminal effectors in humoral responses. PCs differentiate directly from activated B cells in response to T cell-independent (TI) antigens or from germinal center B (GCB) cells in T cell-dependent (TD) antigen-induced humoral responses, both of which pathways are essentially regulated by the transcription factor BLIMP1. The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase isoforms have already been implicated in B cell development, but the precise role of p38alpha in B cell differentiation is still largely unknown. Here we show that PC differentiation and antibody responses are severely impaired in mice with B cell-specific deletion of p38alpha, while B cell development and the GCB cell response are spared. By utilizing a Blimp1 reporter mouse model, we show that p38alpha-deficiency results in decreased BLIMP1 expression. p38alpha-driven BLIMP1 up-regulation is required for both TI and TD PCs differentiation. By combining CRISPR/Cas9 screening and other approaches, we identify TCF3, TCF4 and IRF4 as downstream effectors of p38alpha to control PC differentiation via Blimp1 transcription. This study thus identifies an important signalling pathway underpinning PC differentiation upstream of BLIMP1, and points to a highly specialized and non-redundant role for p38alpha among p38 isoforms.
PXD033152	36443335	Protein painting reveals pervasive remodeling of conserved proteostasis machinery in response to pharmacological stimuli. 	TPE-MI reveals proteome remodelling in response to cellular stimuli	protein painting, proteostasis	The correct spatio-temporal organization of the proteome is essential for cellular homeostasis. However, a detailed mechanistic understanding of this organization and how it is altered in response to external stimuli in the intact cellular environment is as-yet unrealized. 'Protein painting methods provide a means to address this gap in knowledge by monitoring the conformational status of proteins within cells at the proteome-wide scale. Here, we demonstrate the ability of a protein painting method employing tetraphenylethene maleimide (TPE-MI) to reveal proteome network remodeling in whole cells in response to a cohort of commonly used pharmacological stimuli of varying specificity. We report specific, albeit heterogeneous, responses to individual stimuli that coalesce on a conserved set of core cellular machineries. This work expands our understanding of proteome conformational remodeling in response to cellular stimuli, and provides a blueprint for assessing how these conformational changes may contribute to disorders characterized by proteostasis imbalance.
PXD032277	36444304	Chromodomain helicase DNA-binding domain 2 maintains spermatogonial self-renewal by promoting chromatin accessibility and mRNA stability. 	CHD2 maintains spermatogonial self-renewal by promoting chromatin activity and mRNA stability	CHD2, CSTF3, chromatin remodeling, mRNA stability, spermatogenesis	Chromodomain helicase DNA-binding domain 2 (CHD2) is a chromatin remodeling factor involved in many developmental processes. However, its role in male germ cell development has not been elucidated. Here, we confirm that CHD2 expression is enriched in the male germline. In a heterozygous knockout mouse model of Chd2 (Chd2 (+/-)), we demonstrated that Chd2 haploinsufficiency resulted in testicular developmental delay, an increased rate of abnormal sperm, and impaired fertility in mice. In vitro experiments in mouse spermatogonia showed that CHD2 knockdown inhibits spermatogonial self-renewal. Mechanistically, CHD2 maintains the enrichment of H3K4me3 in the Ccnb1 and Ccnd2 promotors, consequently promoting the transcription of Ccnb1 and Ccnd2. In addition, CHD2 interacts with the cleavage stimulation factor CSTF3 and upregulates the expression of OCT4 and PLZF by improving mRNA stability. This is the first study to reveal the role and mechanism of CHD2 in maintaining spermatogonial self-renewal.
PXD034099	36444514	A shift towards succinate-producing Prevotella in the ruminal microbiome challenged with monensin. 	Rumen microbiome and effect of monensin	Prevotella, microbiome, monensin, rumen	The time-resolved impact of monensin on the active rumen microbiome was studied in a rumen-simulating technique (Rusitec) with metaproteomic and metabolomic approaches. Monensin treatment caused a decreased fibre degradation potential that was observed by the reduced abundance of proteins assigned to fibrolytic bacteria and glycoside hydrolases, sugar transporters and carbohydrate metabolism. Decreased proteolytic activities resulted in reduced amounts of ammonium as well as branched-chain fatty acids. The family Prevotellaceae exhibited increased resilience in the presence of monensin, with a switch of the metabolism from acetate to succinate production. Prevotella species harbour a membrane-bound electron transfer complex, which drives the reduction of fumarate to succinate, which is the substrate for propionate production in the rumen habitat. Besides the increased succinate production, a concomitant depletion of methane concentration was observed upon monensin exposure. Our study demonstrates that Prevotella sp. shifts its metabolism successfully in response to monensin exposure and Prevotellaceae represents the key bacterial family stabilizing the rumen microbiota during exposure to monensin.
PXD032177	36445333	CD229 interacts with RASAL3 to activate RAS/ERK pathway in multiple myeloma proliferation. 	CD229 promotes multiple myeloma cell proliferation by regulating RAS/ERK pathway	CD229	Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable plasma cell malignancy, while CAR-T therapy offers a new direction for the treatment of MM. Recently, signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family 3 (CD229), a cell surface immune receptor belonging to the signaling lymphocyte activating molecule family (SLAMF), is emerging as a CAR-T therapeutic target in MM. However, a clear role of CD229 in MM remains elusive. In this study, MM patients with elevated CD229 expression achieved poor prognosis by analyzing MM clinical databases. In addition, CD229 promoted MM cell proliferation in vitro as well as in xenograft mouse model in vivo. Mechanism study revealed that CD229 promoted MM cell proliferation by regulating the RAS/ERK signaling pathway. Further exploration employed co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry to identify RASAL3 as an important downstream protein of CD229. Additionally, we developed a co-culture method combined with the immunofluorescence assay to confirm that intercellular tyrosine phosphorylation mediated self-activation of CD229 to activate RAS/ERK signaling pathway via interacting with RASAL3. Taken together, these findings not only demonstrate the oncogenic role of CD229 in MM cell proliferation, but also illustrate the potential of CD229 as a promising therapeutic target for MM treatment.
PXD007106	36445937	VPS34-dependent control of apical membrane function of proximal tubule cells and nutrient recovery by the kidney. 	Analysis of the urinary proteome of mice with and without VPS34 knockout	Autophagy, Kidney, Urine, proximal tubule	The lipid kinase VPS34 orchestrates autophagy, endocytosis, and metabolism and is implicated in cancer and metabolic disease. The proximal tubule in the kidney is a key metabolic organ that controls reabsorption of nutrients such as fatty acids, amino acids, sugars, and proteins. Here, by combining metabolomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics analyses with functional and superresolution imaging assays of mice with an inducible deficiency in proximal tubular cells, we revealed that VPS34 controlled the metabolome of the proximal tubule. In addition to inhibiting pinocytosis and autophagy, VPS34 depletion induced membrane exocytosis and reduced the abundance of the retromer complex necessary for proper membrane recycling and lipid retention, leading to a loss of fuel and biomass. Integration of omics data into a kidney cell metabolomic model demonstrated that VPS34 deficiency increased beta-oxidation, reduced gluconeogenesis, and enhanced the use of glutamine for energy consumption. Furthermore, the omics datasets revealed that VPS34 depletion triggered an antiviral response that included a decrease in the abundance of apically localized virus receptors such as ACE2. VPS34 inhibition abrogated SARS-CoV-2 infection in human kidney organoids and cultured proximal tubule cells in a glutamine-dependent manner. Thus, our results demonstrate that VPS34 adjusts endocytosis, nutrient transport, autophagy, and antiviral responses in proximal tubule cells in the kidney.
PXD033372	36445966	The N-Myc-responsive lncRNA MILIP promotes DNA double-strand break repair through non-homologous end joining. 	The N-Myc-Responsive LncRNA MILIP Promotes Non-Homologous DNA End Joining to Alleviate Genotoxic Stress in Human Neuroblastoma	DNA repair, MYCN, N-Myc, Neuroblastoma, lncRNA	The protooncoprotein N-Myc, which is overexpressed in approximately 25% of neuroblastomas as the consequence of MYCN gene amplification, has long been postulated to regulate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair in neuroblastoma cells, but experimental evidence of this function is presently scant. Here, we show that N-Myc transcriptionally activates the long noncoding RNA MILIP to promote nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) DNA repair through facilitating Ku70-Ku80 heterodimerization in neuroblastoma cells. High MILIP expression was associated with poor outcome and appeared as an independent prognostic factor in neuroblastoma patients. Knockdown of MILIP reduced neuroblastoma cell viability through the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of proliferation, retarded neuroblastoma xenograft growth, and sensitized neuroblastoma cells to DNA-damaging therapeutics. The effect of MILIP knockdown was associated with the accumulation of DNA DSBs in neuroblastoma cells largely due to decreased activity of the NHEJ DNA repair pathway. Mechanistical investigations revealed that binding of MILIP to Ku70 and Ku80 increased their heterodimerization, and this was required for MILIP-mediated promotion of NHEJ DNA repair. Disrupting the interaction between MILIP and Ku70 or Ku80 increased DNA DSBs and reduced cell viability with therapeutic potential revealed where targeting MILIP using Gapmers cooperated with the DNA-damaging drug cisplatin to inhibit neuroblastoma growth in vivo. Collectively, our findings identify MILIP as an N-Myc downstream effector critical for activation of the NHEJ DNA repair pathway in neuroblastoma cells, with practical implications of MILIP targeting, alone and in combination with DNA-damaging therapeutics, for neuroblastoma treatment.
PXD025937	36446162	Multiomics and artificial intelligence enabled peripheral blood-based prediction of amnestic mild cognitive impairment. 	Plasma proteome of mild cognitive impairment	MCI, plasma	BACKGROUND: Since dementia is preventable with early interventions, biomarkers that assist in diagnosing early stages of dementia, such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI), are urgently needed. METHODS: Multiomics analysis of amnestic MCI (aMCI) peripheral blood (n = 25) was performed covering the transcriptome, microRNA, proteome, and metabolome. Validation analysis for microRNAs was conducted in an independent cohort (n = 12). Artificial intelligence was used to identify the most important features for predicting aMCI. FINDINGS: We found that hsa-miR-4455 is the best biomarker in all omics analyses. The diagnostic index taking a ratio of hsa-miR-4455 to hsa-let-7b-3p predicted aMCI patients against healthy subjects with 97% overall accuracy. An integrated review of multiomics data suggested that a subset of T cells and the GCN (general control nonderepressible) pathway are associated with aMCI. INTERPRETATION: The multiomics approach has enabled aMCI biomarkers with high specificity and illuminated the accompanying changes in peripheral blood. Future large-scale studies are necessary to validate candidate biomarkers for clinical use.
PXD035934	36446791	HSP90-CDC37-PP5 forms a structural platform for kinase dephosphorylation. 	Mechanism of client kinase dephosphorylation by the HSP90-CDC37-PP5 complex	IMP1 regulation, m6a methylation, neuronal differentiation	Activation of client protein kinases by the HSP90 molecular chaperone system is affected by phosphorylation at multiple sites on HSP90, the kinase-specific co-chaperone CDC37, and the kinase client itself. Removal of regulatory phosphorylation from client kinases and their release from the HSP90-CDC37 system depends on the Ser/Thr phosphatase PP5, which associates with HSP90 via its N-terminal TPR domain. Here, we present the cryoEM structure of the oncogenic protein kinase client BRAF(V600E) bound to HSP90-CDC37, showing how the V600E mutation favours BRAF association with HSP90-CDC37. Structures of HSP90-CDC37-BRAF(V600E) complexes with PP5 in autoinhibited and activated conformations, together with proteomic analysis of its phosphatase activity on BRAF(V600E) and CRAF, reveal how PP5 is activated by recruitment to HSP90 complexes. PP5 comprehensively dephosphorylates client proteins, removing interaction sites for regulatory partners such as 14-3-3 proteins and thus performing a 'factory reset' of the kinase prior to release.
PXD031377	36446866	Elacestrant demonstrates strong anti-estrogenic activity in PDX models of estrogen-receptor positive endocrine-resistant and fulvestrant-resistant breast cancer. 	Elacestrant demonstrates strong anti-estrogenic activity in PDX models of estrogen receptor positive endocrine-resistant and fulvestrant-resistant breast cancer	RIME, TMT, breast cancer, elacestrant	The selective oestrogen receptor (ER) degrader (SERD), fulvestrant, is limited in its use for the treatment of breast cancer (BC) by its poor oral bioavailability. Comparison of the orally bioavailable investigational SERD elacestrant, versus fulvestrant, demonstrates both drugs impact tumour growth of ER+ patient-derived xenograft models harbouring several ESR1 mutations but that elacestrant is active after acquired resistance to fulvestrant. In cell line models of endocrine sensitive and resistant breast cancer both drugs impact the ER-cistrome, ER-interactome and transcription of oestrogen-regulated genes similarly, confirming the anti-oestrogenic activity of elacestrant. The addition of elacestrant to CDK4/6 inhibitors enhances the antiproliferative effect compared to monotherapy. Furthermore, elacestrant inhibits the growth of palbociclib-resistant cells. Lastly, resistance to elacestrant involves Type-I and Type-II receptor tyrosine kinases which are amenable to therapeutic targeting. Our data support the wider clinical testing of elacestrant.
PXD034984	36447390	Human histone pre-mRNA assembles histone or canonical mRNA-processing complexes by overlapping 3'-end sequence elements. 	Identification of mRNA processing complexes bound to histone H2A.2 3' untranslated region	mRNA maturation, nanoLC-MS/MS, pre-mRNA processing, processing factors	Human pre-mRNA processing relies on multi-subunit macromolecular complexes, which recognize specific RNA sequence elements essential for assembly and activity. Canonical pre-mRNA processing proceeds via the recognition of a polyadenylation signal (PAS) and a downstream sequence element (DSE), and produces polyadenylated mature mRNAs, while replication-dependent (RD) histone pre-mRNA processing requires association with a stem-loop (SL) motif and a histone downstream element (HDE), and produces cleaved but non-polyadenylated mature mRNAs. H2AC18 mRNA, a specific H2A RD histone pre-mRNA, can be processed to give either a non-polyadenylated mRNA, ending at the histone SL, or a polyadenylated mRNA. Here, we reveal how H2AC18 captures the two human pre-mRNA processing complexes in a mutually exclusive mode by overlapping a canonical PAS (AAUAAA) sequence element with a HDE. Disruption of the PAS sequence on H2AC18 pre-mRNA prevents recruitment of the canonical complex in vitro, without affecting the histone machinery. This shows how the relative position of cis-acting elements in histone pre-mRNAs allows the selective recruitment of distinct human pre-mRNA complexes, thereby expanding the capability to regulate 3' processing and polyadenylation.
PXD034354	36450095	Higher Temperature Porous Graphitic Carbon Separations Differentially Impact Distinct Glycopeptide Classes. 	Higher Temperature Porous Graphitic Carbon Separations Differentially Impact Distinct Glycopeptide Classes	Glycoproteomics, glycopeptide, porous graphitic carbon	Mass spectrometry-based discovery glycoproteomics is highly dependent on the use of chromatography paradigms amenable to analyte retention and separation. When compared against established stationary phases such as reversed-phase and hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography, reports utilizing porous graphitic carbon have detailed its numerous advantages. Recent efforts have highlighted the utility in porous graphitic carbon in high-throughput glycoproteomics, principally through enhanced profiling depth and liquid-phase resolution at higher column temperatures. However, increasing column temperature has been shown to impart disparaging effects in glycopeptide identification. Herein we further elucidate this trend, describing qualitative and semiquantitative effects of increased column temperature on glycopeptide identification rates, signal intensity, resolution, and spectral count linear response. Through analysis of enriched bovine and human glycopeptides, species with high mannose and sialylated glycans were shown to most significantly benefit and suffer from high column temperatures, respectively. These results provide insight as to how porous graphitic carbon separations may be appropriately leveraged for glycopeptide identification while raising concerns over quantitative and semiquantitative label-free comparisons as the temperature changes. RAW MS glycoproteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD034354.
PXD036441	36450103	Multiomics of Colorectal Cancer Organoids Reveals Putative Mediators of Cancer Progression Resulting from SMAD4 Inactivation. 	Multi-omics of colon tumor progression organoids reveals putative mediators of colorectal cancer metastasis	SMAD4, Whole-cell proteomics, colon cancer, metastasis, secretomics	The development of metastasis severely reduces the life expectancy of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Although loss of SMAD4 is a key event in CRC progression, the resulting changes in biological processes in advanced disease and metastasis are not fully understood. Here, we applied a multiomics approach to a CRC organoid model that faithfully reflects the metastasis-supporting effects of SMAD4 inactivation. We show that loss of SMAD4 results in decreased differentiation and activation of pro-migratory and cell proliferation processes, which is accompanied by the disruption of several key oncogenic pathways, including the TGFbeta, WNT, and VEGF pathways. In addition, SMAD4 inactivation leads to increased secretion of proteins that are known to be involved in a variety of pro-metastatic processes. Finally, we show that one of the factors that is specifically secreted by SMAD4-mutant organoids-DKK3-reduces the antitumor effects of natural killer cells (NK cells). Altogether, our data provide new insights into the role of SMAD4 perturbation in advanced CRC.
PXD034961	36451185	Riluzole partially restores RNA polymerase III complex assembly in cells expressing the leukodystrophy-causative variant POLR3B R103H. 	Riluzole partially restores RNA polymerase III complex assembly in cells expressing the leukodystrophy-causative variant POLR3B R103H	4H leukodystrophy, PAQosome, POLR3-related leukodystrophy, RNA polymerase III, drug repurposing, protein complex assembly, riluzole	The mechanism of assembly of RNA polymerase III (Pol III), the 17-subunit enzyme that synthesizes tRNAs, 5 S rRNA, and other small-nuclear (sn) RNAs in eukaryotes, is not clearly understood. The recent discovery of the HSP90 co-chaperone PAQosome (Particle for Arrangement of Quaternary structure) revealed a function for this machinery in the biogenesis of nuclear RNA polymerases. However, the connection between Pol III subunits and the PAQosome during the assembly process remains unexplored. Here, we report the development of a mass spectrometry-based assay that allows the characterization of Pol III assembly. This assay was used to dissect the stages of Pol III assembly, to start defining the function of the PAQosome in this process, to dissect the assembly defects driven by the leukodystrophy-causative R103H substitution in POLR3B, and to discover that riluzole, an FDA-approved drug for alleviation of ALS symptoms, partly corrects these assembly defects. Together, these results shed new light on the mechanism and regulation of human nuclear Pol III biogenesis.
PXD033907	36454354	Drug synergy discovery of tavaborole and aminoglycosides against Escherichia coli using high throughput screening. 	Escherichia coli LC-MS/MS treated by tavaborole	Escherichia coli, Tavaborole	High incidences of urinary tract infection (UTI) of aminoglycosides-resistant E.coli causes a severe burden for public health. A new therapeutic strategy to ease this crisis is to repurpose non-antibacterial compounds to increase aminoglycosides sensibility against multidrug resistant E.coli pathogens. Based on high throughput screening technology, we profile the antimicrobial activity of tavaborole, a first antifungal benzoxaborole drug for onychomycosis treatment, and investigate the synergistic interaction between tavaborole and aminoglycosides, especially tobramycin and amikacin. Most importantly, by resistance accumulation assay, we found that, tavaborole not only slowed resistance occurrence of aminoglycosides, but also reduced invasiveness of E.coli in combination with tobramycin. Mechanistic studies preliminary explored that tavaborole and aminoglycosides lead to mistranslation, but would be still necessary to investigate more details for further research. In addition, tavaborole exhibited low systematic toxicity in vitro and in vivo, and enhanced aminoglycoside bactericidal activity in mice peritonitis model. Collectively, these results suggest the potential of tavaborole as a novel aminoglycosides adjuvant to tackle the clinically relevant drug resistant E. coli and encourages us to discover more benzoxaborole analogues for circumvention of recalcitrant infections.
PXD029884	36454758	MEK inhibition enhances presentation of targetable MHC-I tumor antigens in mutant melanomas. 	MEK inhibition enhances presentation of targetable MHC-I tumor antigens in mutant melanomas - targeted data	HLA, MHC, SureQuant, antigen presentation, immunopeptidomics, targeted	Combining multiple therapeutic strategies in NRAS/BRAF mutant melanoma-namely MEK/BRAF kinase inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), and targeted immunotherapies-may offer an improved survival benefit by overcoming limitations associated with any individual therapy. Still, optimal combination, order, and timing of administration remains under investigation. Here, we measure how MEK inhibition (MEKi) alters anti-tumor immunity by utilizing quantitative immunopeptidomics to profile changes in the peptide major histocompatibility molecules (pMHC) repertoire. These data reveal a collection of tumor antigens whose presentation levels are selectively augmented following therapy, including several epitopes present at over 1,000 copies per cell. We leveraged the tunable abundance of MEKi-modulated antigens by targeting four epitopes with pMHC-specific T cell engagers and antibody drug conjugates, enhancing cell killing in tumor cells following MEK inhibition. These results highlight drug treatment as a means to enhance immunotherapy efficacy by targeting specific upregulated pMHCs and provide a methodological framework for identifying, quantifying, and therapeutically targeting additional epitopes of interest.
PXD038000	36456567	Moonlighting chaperone activity of the enzyme PqsE contributes to RhlR-controlled virulence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Moonlighting chaperone 1 activity of the enzyme PqsE contributes to RhlR-controlled virulence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	PqsE, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, RhlR, quorum sensing	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a major cause of nosocomial infections and also leads to severe exacerbations in cystic fibrosis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Three intertwined quorum sensing systems control virulence of P. aeruginosa, with the rhl circuit playing the leading role in late and chronic infections. The majority of traits controlled by rhl transcription factor RhlR depend on PqsE, a dispensable thioesterase in Pseudomonas Quinolone Signal (PQS) biosynthesis that interferes with RhlR through an enigmatic mechanism likely involving direct interaction of both proteins. Here we show that PqsE and RhlR form a 2:2 protein complex that, together with RhlR agonist N-butanoyl-L-homoserine lactone (C4-HSL), solubilizes RhlR and thereby renders the otherwise insoluble transcription factor active. We determine crystal structures of the complex and identify residues essential for the interaction. To corroborate the chaperone-like activity of PqsE, we design stability-optimized variants of RhlR that bypass the need for C4-HSL and PqsE in activating PqsE/RhlR-controlled processes of P. aeruginosa. Together, our data provide insight into the unique regulatory role of PqsE and lay groundwork for developing new P. aeruginosa-specific pharmaceuticals.
PXD035444	36456802	The endocytic TPLATE complex internalizes ubiquitinated plasma membrane cargo. 	The endocytic TPLATE complex internalizes ubiquitinated plasma membrane cargo	AP-MS, TPLATE complex, endocytosis	Endocytosis controls the perception of stimuli by modulating protein abundance at the plasma membrane. In plants, clathrin-mediated endocytosis is the most prominent internalization pathway and relies on two multimeric adaptor complexes, the AP-2 and the TPLATE complex (TPC). Ubiquitination is a well-established modification triggering endocytosis of cargo proteins, but how this modification is recognized to initiate the endocytic event remains elusive. Here we show that TASH3, one of the large subunits of TPC, recognizes ubiquitinated cargo at the plasma membrane via its SH3 domain-containing appendage. TASH3 lacking this evolutionary specific appendage modification allows TPC formation but the plants show severely reduced endocytic densities, which correlates with reduced endocytic flux. Moreover, comparative plasma membrane proteomics identified differential accumulation of multiple ubiquitinated cargo proteins for which we confirm altered trafficking. Our findings position TPC as a key player for ubiquitinated cargo internalization, allowing future identification of target proteins under specific stress conditions.
PXD034948	36457527	Multi-omics analysis the differences of VOCs terpenoid synthesis pathway in maintaining obligate mutualism between Ficus hirta Vahl and its pollinators. 	Transcriptome, proteome, and volatile organic compounds analysis the pathways of terpenoid synthesis in bracts in the interaction between Ficus hirta Vahl and pollinators	Ficus hirta, bracts	Inroduction: Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted by the receptive syconia of Ficus species is a key trait to attract their obligate pollinating fig wasps. Ficus hirta Vahl is a dioecious shrub, which is pollinated by a highly specialized symbiotic pollinator in southern China. Terpenoids are the main components of VOCs in F. hirta and play ecological roles in pollinator attraction, allelopathy, and plant defense. However, it remains unclear that what molecular mechanism difference in terpenoid synthesis pathways between pre-receptive stage (A-phase) and receptive stage (B-phase) of F. hirta syconia. Methods: Transcriptome, proteome and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometer (GC-MS) were applied here to analyze these difference. Results and discussion: Compared to A-phase syconia, the genes (ACAT2, HMGR3, GGPS2, HDR, GPS2, TPS2, TPS4, TPS10-4, TPS14) related to the terpenoid synthesis pathway had higher expression level in receptive syconia (B-phase) according to transcriptome sequencing. Seven differentially expressed transcription factors were screened, namely bHLH7, MYB1R1, PRE6, AIL1, RF2b, ANT, VRN1. Specifically, bHLH7 was only specifically expressed in B-phase. 235 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were mainly located in the cytoplasm and chloroplasts. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that the DEPs were mainly enriched in the metabolic process. A total of 9 terpenoid synthesis proteins were identified in the proteome. Among them, 4 proteins in methylerythritol phosphate (MEP) pathway were all down-regulated. Results suggested the synthesis of terpenoids precursors in B-phase bracts were mainly accomplished through the mevalonic acid (MVA) pathway in cytoplasm. Correlation analysis between the transcriptome and proteome, we detected a total of 1082 transcripts/proteins, three of which are related to stress. From the VOCs analysis, the average percent of monoterpenoids emitted by A-phase and B-phase syconia were 8.29% and 37.08%, while those of sesquiterpenes were 88.43% and 55.02% respectively. Monoterpenes (camphene, myrcene, camphor, menthol) were only detected in VOCs of B-phase syconia. To attract pollinators, B-phase syconia of F. hirta need more monoterpenoids and less sesquiterpenes. We speculate that transcription factor bHLH7 may regulate the terpenoid synthesis pathway between A- and B-phase syconia. Our research provided the first global analysis of mechanism differences of terpenoid synthesis pathways between A and B phases in F. hirta syconia.
PXD031992	36459484	Modular UBE2H-CTLH E2-E3 complexes regulate erythroid maturation. 	Differential UBE2H-CTLH E2-E3 ubiquitylation modulesregulate erythroid maturation	CTLH complex, DIA, E2, E3, Gid complex, MS, UBE2H, ubiquitination	The development of haematopoietic stem cells into mature erythrocytes - erythropoiesis - is a controlled process characterized by cellular reorganization and drastic reshaping of the proteome landscape. Failure of ordered erythropoiesis is associated with anaemias and haematological malignancies. Although the ubiquitin system is a known crucial post-translational regulator in erythropoiesis, how the erythrocyte is reshaped by the ubiquitin system is poorly understood. By measuring the proteomic landscape of in vitro human erythropoiesis models, we found dynamic differential expression of subunits of the CTLH E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that formed maturation stage-dependent assemblies of topologically homologous RANBP9- and RANBP10-CTLH complexes. Moreover, protein abundance of CTLH's cognate E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme UBE2H increased during terminal differentiation, and UBE2H expression depended on catalytically active CTLH E3 complexes. CRISPR-Cas9-mediated inactivation of CTLH E3 assemblies or UBE2H in erythroid progenitors revealed defects, including spontaneous and accelerated erythroid maturation as well as inefficient enucleation. Thus, we propose that dynamic maturation stage-specific changes of UBE2H-CTLH E2-E3 modules control the orderly progression of human erythropoiesis.
PXD035367	36460301	Analysis of protein expression changes in patients with prediabetes using proteomics approaches. 	Analysis of protein expression changes in patients with prediabetes using high-throughput proteomics	CD14, CSF-1R, high-throughput proteomics, prediabetes	RATIONALE: Proteomics and metabolomics are widely used in the study of diabetes, but rarely in prediabetes research. This study aimed to explore the mechanisms of early-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) by analyzing proteomic changes at different stages of glucose metabolism. METHODS: A total of 40 individuals undergoing routine physical health examinations between December 2016 and April 2017 were enrolled. Subjects were divided into four groups based on fasting blood glucose (FPG) levels: FPG < 5.6 mmol/L (group A); FPG >= 5.6 mmol/L and <6.1 mmol/L (group B); FPG >= 6.1 mmol/L and <7.0 mmol/L (group C); and FPG >= 7.0 mmol/L (group D). Each group had 10 cases. Sera from these 40 subjects were analyzed by label-free quantitative liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). LC/MS/MS with selected reaction monitoring mode was also performed for qualitative and quantitative metabolomics analysis. Differentially expressed proteins were identified. Partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA) were used to analyze the differentially expressed metabolites. RESULTS: A total of 202 differentially expressed proteins were screened and were identified as mainly secreted proteins. Comparing group A with group B, 32 proteins were up-regulated and 18 proteins were down-regulated. Comparing group A with group C, 24 proteins were up-regulated and 24 proteins were down-regulated. Comparing group A with group D, 19 proteins were up-regulated and 17 proteins were down-regulated. The fold change for up-regulated proteins was >1.2, p < 0.05, while the fold change for down-regulated proteins was <-1.2, p < 0.05. PLS-DA and OPLS-DA revealed 113 differentially expressed metabolites. Correlation analysis of differentially expressed metabolites of group A versus group B revealed that among the down-regulated differential proteins, transforming growth factor beta-induced protein ig-h3 correlated negatively with metabolite L-saccharin, while among the up-regulated differential proteins, apolipoprotein C-IV correlated negatively with metabolite 3-methyloxindole. Among all differentially expressed proteins, 19 proteins were associated with early initiation of chronic inflammation, including CD14 and CSF-1R, which were newly identified in the early onset of T2DM. CONCLUSIONS: Many proteins are differentially expressed between prediabetes and after T2DM diagnosis, although the specific mechanism remains unclear. The expression level of CD14 was significantly up-regulated and that of CSF-1R was significantly down-regulated when FPG was >=5.6 mmol/L, suggesting that CD14 and CSF-1R may be important markers for early-onset T2DM and may serve as new targets for T2DM treatment.
PXD037587	36460334	T cells of colorectal cancer patients' stimulated by neoantigenic and cryptic peptides better recognize autologous tumor cells. 	T cells of colorectal cancer patients' stimulated by neoantigenic and cryptic peptides better recognize autologous tumor cells	Antigen Presentation, Colorectal Cancer, HLA class I, HLA-presented peptides, neoepitope	BACKGROUND: Patients with cancers that exhibit extraordinarily high somatic mutation numbers are ideal candidates for immunotherapy and enable identifying tumor-specific peptides through stimulation of tumor-reactive T cells (Tc). METHODS: Colorectal cancers (CRC) HROC113 and HROC285 were selected based on high TMB, microsatellite instability and HLA class I expression. Their HLA ligandome was characterized using mass spectrometry, compared with the HLA ligand atlas and HLA class I-binding affinity was predicted. Cryptic peptides were identified using Peptide-PRISM. Patients' Tc were isolated from either peripheral blood (pTc) or tumor material (tumor-infiltrating Tc, TiTc) and expanded. In addition, B-lymphoblastoid cells (B-LCL) were generated and used as antigen-presenting cells. pTc and TiTc were stimulated twice for 7 days using peptide pool-loaded B-LCL. Subsequently, interferon gamma (IFNgamma) release was quantified by ELISpot. Finally, cytotoxicity against autologous tumor cells was assessed in a degranulation assay. RESULTS: 100 tumor-specific candidate peptides-97 cryptic peptides and 3 classically mutated neoantigens-were selected. The neoantigens originated from single nucleotide substitutions in the genes IQGAP1, CTNNB1, and TRIT1. Cryptic and neoantigenic peptides inducing IFNgamma secretion of Tc were further investigated. Stimulation of pTc and TiTc with neoantigens and selected cryptic peptides resulted in increased release of cytotoxic granules in the presence of autologous tumor cells, substantiating their improved tumor cell recognition. Tetramer staining showed an enhanced number of pTc and TiTc specific for the IQGAP1 neoantigen. Subpopulation analysis prior to peptide stimulation revealed that pTc mainly consisted of memory Tc, whereas TiTc constituted primarily of effector and effector memory Tc. This allows to infer that TiTc reacting to neoantigens and cryptic peptides must be present within the tumor microenvironment. CONCLUSION: These results prove that the analyzed CRC present both mutated neoantigenic and cryptic peptides on their HLA class I molecules. Moreover, stimulation with these peptides significantly strengthened tumor cell recognition by Tc. Since the overall number of neoantigenic peptides identifiable by HLA ligandome analysis hitherto is small, our data emphasize the relevance of increasing the target scope for cancer vaccines by the cryptic peptide category.
PXD038080	36460653	N(6)-methyladenosine RNA modification regulates photosynthesis during photodamage in plants. 	The VIR-associated proteins were identified by LC-MS/MS		N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) modification of mRNAs affects many biological processes. However, the function of m(6)A in plant photosynthesis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that m(6)A modification is crucial for photosynthesis during photodamage caused by high light stress in plants. The m(6)A modification levels of numerous photosynthesis-related transcripts are changed after high light stress. We determine that the Arabidopsis m(6)A writer VIRILIZER (VIR) positively regulates photosynthesis, as its genetic inactivation drastically lowers photosynthetic activity and photosystem protein abundance under high light conditions. The m(6)A levels of numerous photosynthesis-related transcripts decrease in vir mutants, extensively reducing their transcript and translation levels, as revealed by multi-omics analyses. We demonstrate that VIR associates with the transcripts of genes encoding proteins with functions related to photoprotection (such as HHL1, MPH1, and STN8) and their regulatory proteins (such as regulators of transcript stability and translation), promoting their m(6)A modification and maintaining their stability and translation efficiency. This study thus reveals an important mechanism for m(6)A-dependent maintenance of photosynthetic efficiency in plants under high light stress conditions.
PXD031958	36460666	Nascent peptide-induced translation discontinuation in eukaryotes impacts biased amino acid usage in proteomes. 	Peptides from abortive pep-tRNAs in wt and delta-pth2 strain of S. cerevisiae	IRD	Robust translation elongation of any given amino acid sequence is required to shape proteomes. Nevertheless, nascent peptides occasionally destabilize ribosomes, since consecutive negatively charged residues in bacterial nascent chains can stochastically induce discontinuation of translation, in a phenomenon termed intrinsic ribosome destabilization (IRD). Here, using budding yeast and a human factor-based reconstituted translation system, we show that IRD also occurs in eukaryotic translation. Nascent chains enriched in aspartic acid (D) or glutamic acid (E) in their N-terminal regions alter canonical ribosome dynamics, stochastically aborting translation. Although eukaryotic ribosomes are more robust to ensure uninterrupted translation, we find many endogenous D/E-rich peptidyl-tRNAs in the N-terminal regions in cells lacking a peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase, indicating that the translation of the N-terminal D/E-rich sequences poses an inherent risk of failure. Indeed, a bioinformatics analysis reveals that the N-terminal regions of ORFs lack D/E enrichment, implying that the translation defect partly restricts the overall amino acid usage in proteomes.
PXD037715	36461403	Comparison of milk fat globule membrane protein profile among bovine, goat and camel milk based on label free proteomic techniques. 	Comparison of milk fat globule membrane protein profile among bovine, goat and camel milk based on label free proteomic techniques	MFGM protein, different mammals, principal component analysis	Milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) proteins, which are recognized to play a variety of biological roles; nevertheless, their composition and interspecies complexity remain unknown. This study aimed to identify and quantify proteins extracted from MFGM-enriched fractions of bovine, goat and camel milk by a label free proteomics approach. We identified 1579 proteins, substantially increasing the number of MFGM proteins identified for these species. The results of functional analysis showed that the identified MFGM proteins had similar functional annotations, with cellular processes, intracellular anatomical structures and binding being the predominant GO annotations. And most of the proteins were involved in KEGG pathways such as protein processing of ribosomes and endoplasmic reticulum. Subsequently, multiple statistical methods were used to compare the differences in MFGM protein quantification among different species. The results of principal component analysis showed that bovine, goat and camel milk MFGM proteins were significantly different, among which CSN1S1, XDH, LTF and PI4KA played an important role in taxonomic identification. Meanwhile the results of hierarchical clustering showed that the differences (p < 0.05) between bovine and goat milk were smaller than those of camel milk. These new data deepen the understanding of the protein composition of MFGM and its possible physiological roles, providing directions for the production of specific functional milk proteins.
PXD032932	36463101	Proteomics profiles of blood glucose-related proteins involved in a Chinese longevity cohort. 	A TMT- based comparative quantitative proteomics analysis was used to reveal the changes of plasma proteomics profiles between longevity subjects and non-longevity area participants  in order to identify plasma proteins associated with glucose metabolism 	human plasma LC/MSMS TMT	BACKGROUND: High blood glucose level is one of the main characteristics of diabetes mellitus. Based on previous studies, it is speculated longevity families may have certain advantages in blood glucose regulation. However, limited information on these items has been reported. The purpose of this study was to profile differences of plasma proteomics between longevity subjects (with normal fructosamine (FUN) level) and non-longevity area participants (with exceeding standard FUN level). METHODS: In this study, a TMT-based proteomics analysis was used to profile differences of plasma proteomics between longevity subjects (with normal FUN level) and non-longevity area participants (with exceeding standard FUN level). Results were validated by Luminex detection. RESULTS: A total of 155 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified between these two groups. The DEPs related to blood glucose regulation were mainly involved in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, pyruvate metabolism and propanoate metabolism, and most of the DEPs were contained in carbohydrate metabolism, PI3K-Akt pathway, glucagon signaling pathway and inflammatory response. Validation by Luminex detection confirmed that CD163 was down-regulated, and SPARC, PARK 7 and IGFBP-1 were up-regulated in longevity participants. CONCLUSIONS: This study not only highlighted carbohydrate metabolism, PI3K-Akt pathway, glucagon signaling pathway and inflammatory response may play important roles in blood glucose regulation, but also indicated that YWHAZ, YWHAB, YWHAG, YWHAE, CALM3, CRP, SAA2, PARK 7, IGFBP1 and VNN1 may serve as potential biomarkers for predicting abnormal blood glucose levels.
PXD038094	36463234	ERK-mediated NELF-A phosphorylation promotes transcription elongation of immediate-early genes by releasing promoter-proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II. 	MS-based determination of NELF-A phosphorylation 	phosphorylation	Growth factor-induced, ERK-mediated induction of immediate-early genes (IEGs) is crucial for cell growth and tumorigenesis. Although IEG expression is mainly regulated at the level of transcription elongation by RNA polymerase-II (Pol-II) promoter-proximal pausing and its release, the role of ERK in this process remains unknown. Here, we identified negative elongation factor (NELF)-A as an ERK substrate. Upon growth factor stimulation, ERK phosphorylates NELF-A, which dissociates NELF from paused Pol-II at the promoter-proximal regions of IEGs, allowing Pol-II to resume elongation and produce full-length transcripts. Furthermore, we found that in cancer cells, PP2A efficiently dephosphorylates NELF-A, thereby preventing aberrant IEG expression induced by ERK-activating oncogenes. However, when PP2A inhibitor proteins are overexpressed, as is frequently observed in cancers, decreased PP2A activity combined with oncogene-mediated ERK activation conspire to induce NELF-A phosphorylation and IEG upregulation, resulting in tumor progression. Our data delineate previously unexplored roles of ERK and PP2A inhibitor proteins in carcinogenesis.
PXD038209	36463257	Apical anchorage and stabilization of subpellicular microtubules by apical polar ring ensures Plasmodium ookinete infection in mosquito. 	Apical anchorage and stabilization of subpellicular microtubules by apical polar ring ensures Plasmodium ookinete infection in mosquito	Apical polar ring, SWATH-MS, malaria parasite, proximity labelling	Morphogenesis of many protozoans depends on a polarized establishment of cortical cytoskeleton containing the subpellicular microtubules (SPMTs), which are apically nucleated and anchored by the apical polar ring (APR). In malaria parasite Plasmodium, APR emerges in the host-invading stages, including the ookinete for mosquito infection. So far, the fine structure and molecular components of APR as well as the underlying mechanism of APR-mediated apical positioning of SPMTs are largely unknown. Here, we resolve an unprecedented APR structure composed of a top ring plus approximate 60 radiating spines. We report an APR-localizing and SPMT-binding protein APR2. APR2 disruption impairs ookinete morphogenesis and gliding motility, leading to Plasmodium transmission failure in mosquitoes. The APR2-deficient ookinetes display defective apical anchorage of APR and SPMT due to the impaired integrity of APR. Using protein proximity labeling, we obtain a Plasmodium ookinete APR proteome and validate ten undescribed APR proteins. Among them, APRp2 and APRp4 directly interact with APR2 and also mediate the apical anchorage of SPMTs. This study sheds light on the molecular basis of APR in the organization of Plasmodium ookinete SPMTs.
PXD035504	36463755	A discovery-based proteomics approach identifies protein disulphide isomerase (PDIA1) as a biomarker of beta cell stress in type 1 diabetes. 	A discovery-based proteomics approach identifies protein disulfide isomerase (PDIA1) as a biomarker of beta cell stress in type 1 diabetes	biomarkers, protein disulfide isomerase A1, type 1 diabetes, beta cell stress	BACKGROUND: Stress responses within the beta cell have been linked with both increased beta cell death and accelerated immune activation in type 1 diabetes (T1D). At present, information on the timing and scope of these responses as well as disease-related changes in islet beta cell protein expression during T1D development is lacking. METHODS: Data independent acquisition-mass spectrometry was performed on islets collected longitudinally from NOD mice and NOD-SCID mice rendered diabetic through T cell adoptive transfer. FINDINGS: In islets collected from female NOD mice at 10, 12, and 14 weeks of age, we found a time-restricted upregulation of proteins involved in stress mitigation and maintenance of beta cell function, followed by loss of expression of protective proteins that heralded diabetes onset. EIF2 signalling and the unfolded protein response, mTOR signalling, mitochondrial function, and oxidative phosphorylation were commonly modulated pathways in both NOD mice and NOD-SCID mice rendered acutely diabetic by T cell adoptive transfer. Protein disulphide isomerase A1 (PDIA1) was upregulated in NOD islets and pancreatic sections from human organ donors with autoantibody positivity or T1D. Moreover, PDIA1 plasma levels were increased in pre-diabetic NOD mice and in the serum of children with recent-onset T1D compared to non-diabetic controls. INTERPRETATION: We identified a core set of modulated pathways across distinct mouse models of T1D and identified PDIA1 as a potential human biomarker of beta cell stress in T1D. FUNDING: NIH (R01DK093954, DK127308, U01DK127786, UC4DK104166, R01DK060581, R01GM118470, and 5T32DK101001-09). VA Merit Award I01BX001733. JDRF (2-SRA-2019-834-S-B, 2-SRA-2018-493-A-B, 3-PDF-20016-199-A-N, 5-CDA-2022-1176-A-N, and 3-PDF-2017-385-A-N).
PXD032837	36463963	Molecular basis for the recruitment of the Rab effector protein WDR44 by the GTPase Rab11. 	Detailing the Structural and Dynamic Interactions Between WDR44 and Rab11	HDX-MS, Rab11, WDR44	The formation of complexes between Rab11 and its effectors regulates multiple aspects of membrane trafficking, including recycling and ciliogenesis. WD repeat-containing protein 44 (WDR44) is a structurally uncharacterized Rab11 effector that regulates ciliogenesis by competing with prociliogenesis factors for Rab11 binding. Here, we present a detailed biochemical and biophysical characterization of the WDR44-Rab11 complex and define specific residues mediating binding. Using AlphaFold2 modeling and hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, we generated a molecular model of the Rab11-WDR44 complex. The Rab11-binding domain of WDR44 interacts with switch I, switch II, and the interswitch region of Rab11. Extensive mutagenesis of evolutionarily conserved residues in WDR44 at the interface identified numerous complex-disrupting mutations. Using hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, we found that the dynamics of the WDR44-Rab11 interface are distinct from the Rab11 effector FIP3, with WDR44 forming a more extensive interface with the switch II helix of Rab11 compared with FIP3. The WDR44 interaction was specific to Rab11 over evolutionarily similar Rabs, with mutations defining the molecular basis of Rab11 specificity. Finally, WDR44 can be phosphorylated by Sgk3, with this leading to reorganization of the Rab11-binding surface on WDR44. Overall, our results provide molecular detail on how WDR44 interacts with Rab11 and how Rab11 can form distinct effector complexes that regulate membrane trafficking events.
PXD031861	36464092	Trypanosoma evansi secretome carries potential biomarkers for Surra diagnosis. 	Trypanosoma evansi secretome carries potential biomarkers for surra diagnosis	Bioinformatic, Epitope, Immunoinformatic	Trypanosoma evansi is a parasite that is phylogenetically close to Trypanosoma brucei and is the causative agent of a disease known as surra. Surra is responsible for a high mortality rate in livestock and large economic losses in the Americas, Africa, and Asia. This work aimed to analyze in vitro secreted proteins from T. evansi and identify potential treatment and diagnostic biomarkers for surra diagnosis. Two groups were used. In one group the parasites were purified using a DEAE-Cellulose column and maintained in a secretion medium while in the other group the parasites were not purified. Each group was further divided to be maintained at either 37 degreesC or 27 degreesC. We identified 246 proteins through mass spectrometry and found that the temperature appears to modulate protein secretion. We found minimal variations in the protein pools from pure and non-purified sets. We observed an emphasis on proteins associated to vesicles, glycolysis, and cellular homeostasis through the enrichment of GO. Also, we found that most secretome proteins share homologous proteins with T. b. brucei, T. b. gambiense, T. vivax, T. equiperdum, and T. b. rhodesiense secretome but unique T. evansi epitopes with potential biomarkers for surra diagnosis were detected. SIGNIFICANCE: Trypanosoma evansi is a parasite of African origin that is phylogenetically close to Trypanosoma brucei. As with other trypanosomatids and blood parasites, its infection causes non-pathognomonic symptoms, which makes its diagnosis difficult. One great problem is the fact that no diagnostic test differentiates between Trypanosoma equiperdum and T. evansi, which is a problem in South America and Asia, and Africa. Thus, it is urgent to study the biochemistry of the parasite to discover proteins that can be used for differential diagnosis or be possible therapeutic targets. In addition, the study of the secretome can point out proteins that are used by the parasite in its interactions with the host, helping to understand the progression of the disease.
PXD028039	36464162	The multivalency of the glucocorticoid receptor ligand-binding domain explains its manifold physiological activities. 	The multivalency of the glucocorticoid receptor ligand-binding domain explains its manifold physiological activities	X-ray crystallography, fluorescence microscopy, glucocorticoid receptor, glucocorticoids, homodimerization, ligand-binding domain, mutations, quaternary structure, sectors	The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is a ubiquitously expressed transcription factor that controls metabolic and homeostatic processes essential for life. Although numerous crystal structures of the GR ligand-binding domain (GR-LBD) have been reported, the functional oligomeric state of the full-length receptor, which is essential for its transcriptional activity, remains disputed. Here we present five new crystal structures of agonist-bound GR-LBD, along with a thorough analysis of previous structural work. We identify four distinct homodimerization interfaces on the GR-LBD surface, which can associate into 20 topologically different homodimers. Biologically relevant homodimers were identified by studying a battery of GR point mutants including crosslinking assays in solution, quantitative fluorescence microscopy in living cells, and transcriptomic analyses. Our results highlight the relevance of non-canonical dimerization modes for GR, especially of contacts made by loop L1-3 residues such as Tyr545. Our work illustrates the unique flexibility of GR's LBD and suggests different dimeric conformations within cells. In addition, we unveil pathophysiologically relevant quaternary assemblies of the receptor with important implications for glucocorticoid action and drug design.
PXD032119	36464787	Mitochondrial alternative NADH dehydrogenases NDA1 and NDA2 promote survival of reoxygenation stress in Arabidopsis by safeguarding photosynthesis and limiting ROS generation. 	Mitochondrial alternative NADH dehydrogenases limit ROS, protect chloroplasts and promote survival of reoxygenation in Arabidopsis	NADH, ROS, mitochondria, reoxygenation	Plant submergence stress is a growing problem for global agriculture. During desubmergence, rising O2 concentrations meet a highly reduced mitochondrial electron transport chain (mETC) in the cells. This combination favors the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by the mitochondria, which at excess can cause damage. The cellular mechanisms underpinning the management of reoxygenation stress are not fully understood. We investigated the role of alternative NADH dehydrogenases (NDs), as components of the alternative mETC in Arabidopsis, in anoxia-reoxygenation stress management. Simultaneous loss of the matrix-facing NDs, NDA1 and NDA2, decreased seedling survival after reoxygenation, while overexpression increased survival. The absence of NDAs led to reduced maximum potential quantum efficiency of photosystem II linking the alternative mETC to photosynthetic function in the chloroplast. NDA1 and NDA2 were induced upon reoxygenation, and transcriptional activation of NDA1 was controlled by the transcription factors ANAC016 and ANAC017 that bind to the mitochondrial dysfunction motif (MDM) in the NDA1 promoter. The absence of NDA1 and NDA2 did not alter recovery of cytosolic ATP levels and NADH : NAD(+) ratio at reoxygenation. Rather, the absence of NDAs led to elevated ROS production, while their overexpression limited ROS. Our observations indicate that the control of ROS formation by the alternative mETC is important for photosynthetic recovery and for seedling survival of anoxia-reoxygenation stress.
PXD031549	36465038	Revealing oxidative pentose metabolism in new Pseudomonas putida isolates. 	Revealing Pentose Catabolism in Pseudomonas putida	Pseudomonas, Soil isolates, and arabinose, pentose, xylose	The Pseudomonas putida group in the Gammaproteobacteria has been intensively studied for bioremediation and plant growth promotion. Members of this group have recently emerged as promising hosts to convert intermediates derived from plant biomass to biofuels and biochemicals. However, most strains of P. putida cannot metabolize pentose sugars derived from hemicellulose. Here, we describe three isolates that provide a broader view of the pentose sugar catabolism in the P. putida group. One of these isolates clusters with the well-characterized P. alloputida KT2440 (Strain BP6); the second isolate clustered with plant growth-promoting strain P. putida W619 (Strain M2), while the third isolate represents a new species in the group (Strain BP8). Each of these isolates possessed homologous genes for oxidative xylose catabolism (xylDXA) and a potential xylonate transporter. Strain M2 grew on arabinose and had genes for oxidative arabinose catabolism (araDXA). A CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) system was developed for strain M2 and identified conditionally essential genes for xylose growth. A glucose dehydrogenase was found to be responsible for initial oxidation of xylose and arabinose in strain M2. These isolates have illuminated inherent diversity in pentose catabolism in the P. putida group and may provide alternative hosts for biomass conversion.
PXD023100	36465122	GwAAP: A genome-wide amino acid coding-decoding quantitative proteomics system. 	GwAAP: A Genome-wide Amino Acid coding-decoding quantitative Proteomic system	Amino acid codes, protein quantification, synthetic biology	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic technology has greatly improved and has been widely applied in various biological science fields. However, proteome-wide accurate quantification of proteins in signaling pathways remains challenging. Here, we report a genome-wide amino acid coding-decoding quantitative proteomic (GwAAP) system to facilitate precise proteome quantification. For each protein, a unique code peptide was assigned and incorporated into the N-terminus of the targeted protein and used for identification and quantification. As a proof of principle, we systematically tagged 40 yeast proteins with codes and employed mass spectrometry to decode. We successfully recovered all 40 code peptides with a large and consistent quantitative dynamic range (CV slope <10%, R(2) > 0.8). We further verified the alteration of the glucose and galactose metabolism pathways in yeast under different carbon source conditions. The GwAAP system could potentially provide a strategy to achieve absolute quantification of the entire yeast proteome without bias.
PXD036773	36465351	Integrative proteomics and m6A microarray analyses of the signatures induced by METTL3 reveals prognostically significant in gastric cancer by affecting cellular metabolism. 	Identification and evaluation of oxidative phosphorylation-related genes regulated by METTL3 in gastric cancer based on proteomics and m6A methylomes	Gastric cancer, METTL3, m6A, oxidative phosphorylation, prognosis	METTL3-mediated RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most prevalent modification that participates in tumor initiation and progression via governing the expression of their target genes in cancers. However, its role in tumor cell metabolism remains poorly characterized. In this study, m6A microarray and quantitative proteomics were employed to explore the potential effect and mechanism of METTL3 on the metabolism in GC cells. Our results showed that METTL3 induced significant alterations in the protein and m6A modification profile in GC cells. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment indicated that down-regulated proteins were significantly enriched in intracellular mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Moreover, the protein-protein Interaction (PPI) network analysis found that these differentially expressed proteins were significantly associated with OXPHOS. A prognostic model was subsequently constructed based on the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, and the high-risk group exhibited a worse prognosis in GC patients. Meanwhile, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) demonstrated significant enrichment in the energy metabolism signaling pathway. Then, combined with the results of the m6A microarray analysis, the intersection molecules of DEPs and differential methylation genes (DMGs) were significantly correlated with the molecules of OXPHOS. Besides, there were significant differences in prognosis and GSEA enrichment between the two clusters of GC patients classified according to the consensus clustering algorithm. Finally, highly expressed and highly methylated molecules regulated by METTL3 were analyzed and three (AVEN, DAZAP2, DNAJB1) genes were identified to be significantly associated with poor prognosis in GC patients. These results signified that METTL3-regulated DEPs in GC cells were significantly associated with OXPHOS. After combined with m6A microarray analysis, the results suggested that these proteins might be implicated in cell energy metabolism through m6A modifications thus influencing the prognosis of GC patients. Overall, our study revealed that METTL3 is involved in cell metabolism through an m6A-dependent mechanism in GC cells, and indicated a potential biomarker for prognostic prediction in GC.
PXD037978	36466830	Cellular stress modulates severity of the inflammatory response in lungs via cell surface BiP. 	Cellular stress modulates severity of the inflammatory response in lungs via cell surface BiP	BiP, COVID19, Grp78, LPS, cellular stress, inflammation	Inflammation is a central pathogenic feature of the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in COVID-19. Previous pathologies such as diabetes, autoimmune or cardiovascular diseases become risk factors for the severe hyperinflammatory syndrome. A common feature among these risk factors is the subclinical presence of cellular stress, a finding that has gained attention after the discovery that BiP (GRP78), a master regulator of stress, participates in the SARS-CoV-2 recognition. Here, we show that BiP serum levels are higher in COVID-19 patients who present certain risk factors. Moreover, early during the infection, BiP levels predict severe pneumonia, supporting the use of BiP as a prognosis biomarker. Using a mouse model of pulmonary inflammation, we observed increased levels of cell surface BiP (cs-BiP) in leukocytes during inflammation. This corresponds with a higher number of neutrophiles, which show naturally high levels of cs-BiP, whereas alveolar macrophages show a higher than usual exposure of BiP in their cell surface. The modulation of cellular stress with the use of a clinically approved drug, 4-PBA, resulted in the amelioration of the lung hyperinflammatory response, supporting the anti-stress therapy as a valid therapeutic strategy for patients developing ARDS. Finally, we identified stress-modulated proteins that shed light into the mechanism underlying the cellular stress-inflammation network in lungs.
PXD038084	36467101	Proteomics analysis reveals novel insights into the mechanism of hepatotoxicity induced by Tripterygium wilfordii multiglycoside in mice. 	Proteomics analysis reveals novel insights into the mechanism of hepatotoxicity induced by Tripterygium Wilfordii multiglycoside in mice	Hepatotoxicity, Label-free proteomics, Tripterygium wilfordii multiglycoside	Tripterygium wilfordii multiglycoside (GTW), extracted and purified from the peeled roots of T. wilfordii Hook.f. (TwHF), is a well-known traditional Chinese medicine and applied to various autoimmune diseases clinically. However, it has been reported to cause severe liver injury. At present, the mechanism underlying GTW-induced hepatotoxicity remain poorly defined. Here, we evaluated the effects of GTW on mouse liver and elucidated the associated mechanisms via label-free proteomics combined with bioinformatics analysis. Male C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into normal group, a low-dose GTW (70 mg/kg) group and a high-dose GTW (140 mg/kg) group. After 1-week administration, GTW dose-dependently induced hepatotoxicity. Further analysis showed that GTW could act on the intestinal immune network for IgA production pathway, which plays an important role in maintaining intestinal homeostasis and influences the crosstalk between gut and liver. Western blots confirmed that GTW could decrease pIgR protein expression in the liver and ileum, and, as a result, the secretion of IgA into gut lumen was reduced. Further validation showed that intestinal barrier integrity was impaired in GTW-treated mice, promoting bacteria transferring to the liver and triggering proinflammatory response. Our study demonstrated that gut-liver axis may play a vital part in the progression of GTW-induced hepatotoxicity, which provides guidance for basic research and clinical application of GTW.
PXD033628	36468604	Temporal changes in the microglial proteome of male and female mice after a diffuse brain injury using label-free quantitative proteomics. 	Temporal changes in the microglial proteome of male and female mice after a diffuse brain injury using label-free quantitative proteomics	Microglia, TBI, biological sex, inflammation, traumatic brain injury	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) triggers neuroinflammatory cascades mediated by microglia, which promotes tissue repair in the short-term. These cascades may exacerbate TBI-induced tissue damage and symptoms in the months to years post-injury. However, the progression of the microglial function across time post-injury and whether this differs between biological sexes is not well understood. In this study, we examined the microglial proteome at 3-, 7-, or 28-days after a midline fluid percussion injury (mFPI) in male and female mice using label-free quantitative proteomics. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033628. We identified a reduction in microglial proteins involved with clearance of neuronal debris via phagocytosis at 3- and 7-days post-injury. At 28 days post-injury, pro-inflammatory proteins were decreased and anti-inflammatory proteins were increased in microglia. These results indicate a reduction in microglial clearance of neuronal debris in the days post-injury with a shift to anti-inflammatory function by 28 days following TBI. The changes in the microglial proteome that occurred across time post-injury did not differ between biological sexes. However, we did identify an increase in microglial proteins related to pro-inflammation and phagocytosis as well as insulin and estrogen signaling in males compared with female mice that occurred with or without a brain injury. Although the microglial response was similar between males and females up to 28 days following TBI, biological sex differences in the microglial proteome, regardless of TBI, has implications for the efficacy of treatment strategies targeting the microglial response post-injury.
PXD038106	36469292	Spermatozoa, acts as an external cue and alters the cargo and production of the extracellular vesicles derived from oviductal epithelial cells in vitro. 	Qualitative proteomic analysis of Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from oviductal epithelial cells	Bovine, EVs, Oviduct	The oviduct provides optimum physiological and biochemical milieu essential for successful fertilization, early embryo development and facilitates functional maturation of spermatozoa. A study has revealed that spermatozoa alters the gene expression in bovine oviductal epithelial cells (BOECs) remotely via bio-active particles, thus acting as a cue to the oviduct prior to their arrival. However, very little attention has been paid to the question of whether spermatozoa could alter the cargo of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from BOECs. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the alterations in small non-coding RNAs in EVs cargo derived from BOECs when incubated with spermatozoa in contact and non-contact co-culture models. After 4 h of incubation the EVs were isolated from the conditioned media, followed by small non-coding sequencing of the BOEC derived EVs. Our results revealed that EVs from both co-culture models contained distinct cargo in form of miRNA, fragmented mRNA versus control. The pathway enrichment analysis revealed that EV miRNA from direct co-culture were involved in the biological processes associated with phagocytosis, macroautophagy, placenta development, cellular responses to TNF and FGF. The mRNA fragments also varied within the different groups and mapped to the exonic regions of the transcriptome providing vital insights regarding the changes in cellular transcriptome on the arrival of spermatozoa. The findings of this study suggest that spermatozoa, in contact as well as remotely, alter the EV cargo of female reproductive tract epithelial cells which might be playing an essential role in pre and post-fertilization events.
PXD031988	36470425	Flotillin-2 regulates epidermal growth factor receptor activation, degradation by Cbl-mediated ubiquitination, and cancer growth. 	Flotillin-2 regulates EGFR activation, degradation, and cancer growth	Cbl, EGFR, FLOT2, MAPK, cell proliferation, phosphorylation, tumor growth	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling is frequently dysregulated in various cancers. The ubiquitin ligase Casitas B-lineage lymphoma proto-oncogene (Cbl) regulates degradation of activated EGFR through ubiquitination and acts as an adaptor to recruit proteins required for trafficking. Here, we used stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture mass spectrometry to compare Cbl complexes with or without epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation. We identified over a hundred novel Cbl interactors, and a secondary siRNA screen found that knockdown of Flotillin-2 (FLOT2) led to increased phosphorylation and degradation of EGFR upon EGF stimulation in HeLa cells. In PC9 and H441 cells, FLOT2 knockdown increased EGF-stimulated EGFR phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and downstream signaling, reversible by EGFR inhibitor erlotinib. CRISPR knockout (KO) of FLOT2 in HeLa cells confirmed EGFR downregulation, increased signaling, and increased dimerization and endosomal trafficking. Furthermore, we determined that FLOT2 interacted with both Cbl and EGFR. EGFR downregulation upon FLOT2 loss was Cbl dependent, as coknockdown of Cbl and Cbl-b restored EGFR levels. In addition, FLOT2 overexpression decreased EGFR signaling and growth. Overexpression of wildtype (WT) FLOT2, but not the soluble G2A FLOT2 mutant, inhibited EGFR phosphorylation upon EGF stimulation in HEK293T cells. FLOT2 loss induced EGFR-dependent proliferation and anchorage-independent growth. Lastly, FLOT2 KO increased tumor formation and tumor volume in nude mice and NSG mice, respectively. Together, these data demonstrated that FLOT2 negatively regulated EGFR activation and dimerization, as well as its subsequent ubiquitination, endosomal trafficking, and degradation, leading to reduced proliferation in vitro and in vivo.
PXD029991	36470533	The First Pituitary Proteome Landscape From Matched Anterior and Posterior Lobes for a Better Understanding of the Pituitary Gland. 	Proteomic Blueprint of the Pituitary anterior and posterior lobes for better understanding of the physiology of pituitary gland.	Fusion, PRM	To date, very few mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics studies are available on the anterior and posterior lobes of the pituitary. In the past, MS-based investigations have focused exclusively on the whole pituitary gland or anterior pituitary lobe. In this study, for the first time, we performed a deep MS-based analysis of five anterior and five posterior matched lobes to build the first lobe-specific pituitary proteome map, which documented 4090 proteins with isoforms, mostly mapped into chromosomes 1, 2, and 11. About 1446 differentially expressed significant proteins were identified, which were studied for lobe specificity, biological pathway enrichment, protein-protein interaction, regions specific to comparison of human brain and other neuroendocrine glands from Human Protein Atlas to identify pituitary-enriched proteins. Hormones specific to each lobe were also identified and validated with parallel reaction monitoring-based target verification. The study identified and validated hormones, growth hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone subunit beta, exclusively to the anterior lobe whereas oxytocin-neurophysin 1 and arginine vasopressin to the posterior lobe. The study also identified proteins POU1F1 (pituitary-specific positive transcription factor 1), POMC (pro-opiomelanocortin), PCOLCE2 (procollagen C-endopeptidase enhancer 2), and NPTX2 (neuronal pentraxin-2) as pituitary-enriched proteins and was validated for their lobe specificity using parallel reaction monitoring. In addition, three uPE1 proteins, namely THEM6 (mesenchymal stem cell protein DSCD75), FSD1L (coiled-coil domain-containing protein 10), and METTL26 (methyltransferase-like 26), were identified using the NeXtProt database, and depicted tumor markers S100 proteins having high expression in the posterior lobe. In summary, the study documents the first matched anterior and posterior pituitary proteome map acting as a reference control for a better understanding of functional and nonfunctional pituitary adenomas and extrapolating the aim of the Human Proteome Project towards the investigation of the proteome of life.
PXD035377	36470859	Proteogenomic characterization of MiT family translocation renal cell carcinoma. 	Proteogenomic Characterization of MiT Family Translocation Renal Cell Carcinoma	phosphoproteome, tRCC proteome	Microphthalmia transcription factor (MiT) family translocation renal cell carcinoma (tRCC) is a rare type of kidney cancer, which is not well characterized. Here we show the comprehensive proteogenomic analysis of tRCC tumors and normal adjacent tissues to elucidate the molecular landscape of this disease. Our study reveals that defective DNA repair plays an important role in tRCC carcinogenesis and progression. Metabolic processes are markedly dysregulated at both the mRNA and protein levels. Proteomic and phosphoproteome data identify mTOR signaling pathway as a potential therapeutic target. Moreover, molecular subtyping and immune infiltration analysis characterize the inter-tumoral heterogeneity of tRCC. Multi-omic integration reveals the dysregulation of cellular processes affected by genomic alterations, including oxidative phosphorylation, autophagy, transcription factor activity, and proteasome function. This study represents a comprehensive proteogenomic analysis of tRCC, providing valuable insights into its biological mechanisms, disease diagnosis, and prognostication.
PXD038480	36470866	Pexophagy suppresses ROS-induced damage in leaf cells under high-intensity light. 	Pexophagy suppresses ROS-induced damage in leaf cells under high-intensity light	Arabitopsis thaliana, Autophagy, Peroxisome	Although light is essential for photosynthesis, it has the potential to elevate intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Since high ROS levels are cytotoxic, plants must alleviate such damage. However, the cellular mechanism underlying ROS-induced leaf damage alleviation in peroxisomes was not fully explored. Here, we show that autophagy plays a pivotal role in the selective removal of ROS-generating peroxisomes, which protects plants from oxidative damage during photosynthesis. We present evidence that autophagy-deficient mutants show light intensity-dependent leaf damage and excess aggregation of ROS-accumulating peroxisomes. The peroxisome aggregates are specifically engulfed by pre-autophagosomal structures and vacuolar membranes in both leaf cells and isolated vacuoles, but they are not degraded in mutants. ATG18a-GFP and GFP-2xFYVE, which bind to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate, preferentially target the peroxisomal membranes and pre-autophagosomal structures near peroxisomes in ROS-accumulating cells under high-intensity light. Our findings provide deeper insights into the plant stress response caused by light irradiation.
PXD038057	36470917	KLF4-PFKFB3-driven glycolysis is essential for phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells. 	KLF4-PFKFB3-driven glycolysis is essential for phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells	KLF4, PFKFB3, TMAO, atherosclerosis, eEF1A2, glycolysis, smooth muscle cell	Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) within atherosclerotic lesions undergo a phenotypic switching in a KLF4-dependent manner. Glycolysis plays important roles in transdifferentiation of somatic cells, however, it is unclear whether and how KLF4 mediates the link between glycolytic switch and VSMCs phenotypic transitions. Here, we show that KLF4 upregulation accompanies VSMCs phenotypic switching in atherosclerotic lesions. KLF4 enhances the metabolic switch to glycolysis through increasing PFKFB3 expression. Inhibiting glycolysis suppresses KLF4-induced VSMCs phenotypic switching, demonstrating that glycolytic shift is required for VSMCs phenotypic switching. Mechanistically, KLF4 upregulates expression of circCTDP1 and eEF1A2, both of which cooperatively promote PFKFB3 expression. TMAO induces glycolytic shift and VSMCs phenotypic switching by upregulating KLF4. Our study indicates that KLF4 mediates the link between glycolytic switch and VSMCs phenotypic transitions, suggesting that a previously unrecognized KLF4-eEF1A2/circCTDP1-PFKFB3 axis plays crucial roles in VSMCs phenotypic switching.
PXD033190	36471624	Prophage excision switches the primary ribosome rescue pathway and rescue-associated gene regulations in Escherichia coli. 	Prophage excision switches the primary ribosome rescue pathway and rescue-associated gene regulations in Escherichia coli 	E. coli, phage regulatory switch, prophage, trans-translation	Escherichia coli has multiple pathways to release nonproductive ribosome complexes stalled at the 3' end of nonstop mRNA: tmRNA (SsrA RNA)-mediated trans-translation and stop codon-independent termination by ArfA/RF2 or ArfB (YaeJ). The arfA mRNA lacks a stop codon and its expression is repressed by trans-translation. Therefore, ArfA is considered to complement the ribosome rescue activity of trans-translation, but the physiological situations in which ArfA is expressed have not been elucidated. Here, we found that the excision of CP4-57 prophage adjacent to E. coli ssrA leads to the inactivation of tmRNA and switches the primary rescue pathway from trans-translation to ArfA/RF2. This "rescue-switching" rearranges not only the proteome landscape in E. coli but also the phenotype such as motility. Furthermore, among the proteins with significantly increased abundance in the ArfA(+) cells, we found ZntR, whose mRNA is transcribed together as the upstream part of nonstop arfA mRNA. Repression of ZntR and reconstituted model genes depends on the translation of the downstream nonstop ORFs that trigger the trans-translation-coupled exonucleolytic degradation by polynucleotide phosphorylase (PNPase). Namely, our studies provide a novel example of trans-translation-dependent regulation and re-define the physiological roles of prophage excision.
PXD035170	36472367	Proteome-wide systems genetics identifies UFMylation as a regulator of skeletal muscle function. 	Proteomic analysis of UFC1 knockdown in mouse skeletal muscle	UFC1, UFMylation, skeletal muscle	Improving muscle function has great potential to improve the quality of life. To identify novel regulators of skeletal muscle metabolism and function, we performed a proteomic analysis of gastrocnemius muscle from 73 genetically distinct inbred mouse strains, and integrated the data with previously acquired genomics and >300 molecular/phenotypic traits via quantitative trait loci mapping and correlation network analysis. These data identified thousands of associations between protein abundance and phenotypes and can be accessed online (https://muscle.coffeeprot.com/) to identify regulators of muscle function. We used this resource to prioritize targets for a functional genomic screen in human bioengineered skeletal muscle. This identified several negative regulators of muscle function including UFC1, an E2 ligase for protein UFMylation. We show UFMylation is up-regulated in a mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a disease that involves muscle atrophy. Furthermore, in vivo knockdown of UFMylation increased contraction force, implicating its role as a negative regulator of skeletal muscle function.
PXD038236	36472907	LRP1 protects against excessive superior mesenteric artery remodeling by modulating angiotensin II-mediated signaling. 	LRP1 in Vascular Remodeling and Angiotensin Signaling	ACE/Angiotensin Receptors/Renin Angiotensin System, Ang II, Animal Models of Human Disease, Hemodynamics, LRP1, Remodeling, SMA Remodeling, Smooth Mus, Smooth Muscle Proliferation and Differentiation, TGF-beta, Vascular Biology	Vascular smooth muscle cells (vSMCs) exert a critical role in sensing and maintaining vascular integrity. These cells abundantly express the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), a large endocytic signaling receptor that recognizes numerous ligands, including apolipoprotein E-rich lipoproteins, proteases, and protease-inhibitor complexes. We observed the spontaneous formation of aneurysms in the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) of both male and female mice in which LRP1 was genetically deleted in vSMCs (smLRP1-/- mice). Quantitative proteomics revealed elevated abundance of several proteins in smLRP1-/- mice that are known to be induced by angiotensin II-mediated (AngII-mediated) signaling, suggesting that this pathway was dysregulated. Administration of losartan, an AngII type I receptor antagonist, or an angiotensinogen antisense oligonucleotide to reduce plasma angiotensinogen concentrations restored the normal SMA phenotype in smLRP1-/- mice and prevented aneurysm formation. Additionally, using a vascular injury model, we noted excessive vascular remodeling and neointima formation in smLRP1-/- mice that was restored by losartan administration. Together, these findings reveal that LRP1 regulates vascular integrity and remodeling of the SMA by attenuating excessive AngII-mediated signaling.
PXD035763	36472971	Chromoplast plastoglobules recruit the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway and contribute to carotenoid accumulation during tomato fruit maturation. 	Plastoglobules are a biosynthetic platform contributing to carotenoid accumulation during tomato fruit maturation	Chromoplasts, Plastoglobules, Tomato, carotenoid	Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) fruit maturation is associated with a developmental transition from chloroplasts (in mature green fruit) to chromoplasts (in red fruit). The hallmark red color of ripe tomatoes is due to carotenogenesis and accumulation of the red carotenoid lycopene inside chromoplasts. Plastoglobules (PG) are lipid droplets in plastids that are involved in diverse lipid metabolic pathways. In tomato, information on the possible role of PG in carotogenesis and the PG proteome is largely lacking. Here, we outline the role of PG in carotenogenesis giving particular attention to tomato fruit PG proteomes and metabolomes. The proteome analysis revealed the presence of PG-typical FBNs, ABC1K-like kinases, and metabolic enzymes, and those were decreased in the PG of tomato chromoplasts compared to chloroplasts. Notably, the complete beta-carotene biosynthesis pathway was recruited to chromoplast PG, and the enzymes PHYTOENE SYNTHASE 1 (PSY-1), PHYTOENE DESATURASE (PDS), ZETA-CAROTENE DESATURASE (ZDS), and CAROTENOID ISOMERASE (CRTISO) were enriched up to twelvefold compared to chloroplast PG. We profiled the carotenoid and prenyl lipid changes in PG during the chloroplast to chromoplast transition and demonstrated large increases of lycopene and beta-carotene in chromoplast PG. The PG proteome and metabolome are subject to extensive remodeling resulting in high accumulation of lycopene during the chloroplast-to-chromoplast transition. Overall, the results indicate that PGs contribute to carotenoid accumulation during tomato fruit maturation and suggest that they do so by functioning as a biosynthetic platform for carotenogenesis.
PXD033280	36473392	The new landscape of differentially expression proteins in placenta tissues of gestational diabetes based on iTRAQ proteomics. 	The new landscape of differentially expression proteins in placenta tissues of gestational diabetes based on iTRAQ proteomics	Differentially expressed proteins, Gestational diabetes mellitus, Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation, Placenta	INTRODUCTION: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) refers to abnormal glucose tolerance that occurs or is firstly diagnosed during pregnancy. GDM is related to various adverse pregnancy outcomes, but GDM pathogeny has not been fully elucidated. Nevertheless, previous studies have observed that many proteins in the placentas of patients with GDM are dysregulated. The present study aimed to establish a novel differentially expressed protein (DEP) landscape of GDM and normal maternal placentas and to explore the possible connection between DEPs and GDM pathogenesis. This study provides new insights into the mechanism of GDM and should make an important contribution to the development of biomarkers. METHODS: The morphological characteristics of the placenta were observed on 30 GDM and normal maternal placental tissues stained with haematoxylin and eosin. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) was used in the proteomics screening of the DEPs of the normal and GDM maternal placentas. Bioinformatics analysis was performed on the DEPs, and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was performed to verify the DEPs. Finally, the quantitative analysis of iTRAQ and PRM was verified by immunohistochemical assay. RESULTS: A total of 68 DEPs in the GDM placenta were identified with iTRAQ proteomics experiment, comprising 21 up-regulated and 47 down-regulated DEPs. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the regulation of transport, catabolic process of non-coding RNA, cytoskeleton and cell binding were the most abundant Gene Ontology terms, and RNA degradation was an important pathway for significant enrichment. Protein-protein interaction network analysis showed that heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins A2/B1 (HNRNPA2B1), heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A/B (HNRNPAB), heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L (HNRNPL) and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A3 (HNRNPA3) were the cores of the up-regulated proteins. Band 3 anion transport protein (SLC4A1), spectrin beta chain erythrocytic (SPTB), ankyrin-1 (ANK1), spectrin beta chain non-erythrocytic 2 (SPTBN2), D-3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) and exosome complex component RRP42 (EXOSC7) were the cores of the down-regulated proteins. These proteins are involved in the binding, splicing, processing, transport and degradation of RNA and in the formation and maintenance of the cytoskeleton. PRM verification results showed that seven proteins, namely, epiplakin (EPPK1), cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRBP), HNRNPA2B1, HNRNPAB, HNRNPL, Ras-related protein Rab-21 (RAB21) and Ras-related protein Rab-3B (RAB3B), were up-regulated, whereas SPTB and SLC4A1 were down-regulated. The results of immunohistochemical assay also showed that the expression of five proteins, namely EPPK1, HNRNPA2B1, HNRNPAB, CIRBP and RAB21, were significantly higher in GDM placental tissues (P < 0.01). The GDM placentas showed changes in the morphological evaluation, including poor villous maturation, obvious increase in the number of syncytiotrophoblast nodules, thickening of the wall of dry villous arterioles with lumen stenosis, increased fibrinous exudation and excessive filling of villous interstitial vessels. DISCUSSION: Differentially expressed proteins related to a variety of biological processes in the GDM placenta were found. Fourteen proteins, namely, HNRNPA2B1, HNRNPAB, HNRNPL, HNRNPA3, EPPK1, CIRBP, RAB21, RAB3B, SLC4A1, SPTB, ANK1, SPTBN2, PHGDH and EXOSC7, which were differentially expressed in the placenta, may play an important role in regulating the occurrence and development of gestational diabetes through multi-channel and multi-link regulation.
PXD033633	36473839	The role of auxiliary domains in modulating CHD4 activity suggests mechanistic commonality between enzyme families. 	The modulation of CHD4 nucleosome remodelling activity by auxiliary domains suggests unifies mechanistic aspects of chromatin remodelling across enzyme families	CHD4, NuRD, XLMS, crosslinking, nucleosome remodelling	CHD4 is an essential, widely conserved ATP-dependent translocase that is also a broad tumour dependency. In common with other SF2-family chromatin remodelling enzymes, it alters chromatin accessibility by repositioning histone octamers. Besides the helicase and adjacent tandem chromodomains and PHD domains, CHD4 features 1000 residues of N- and C-terminal sequence with unknown structure and function. We demonstrate that these regions regulate CHD4 activity through different mechanisms. An N-terminal intrinsically disordered region (IDR) promotes remodelling integrity in a manner that depends on the composition but not sequence of the IDR. The C-terminal region harbours an auto-inhibitory region that contacts the helicase domain. Auto-inhibition is relieved by a previously unrecognized C-terminal SANT-SLIDE domain split by ~150 residues of disordered sequence, most likely by binding of this domain to substrate DNA. Our data shed light on CHD4 regulation and reveal strong mechanistic commonality between CHD family members, as well as with ISWI-family remodellers.
PXD038138	36473858	SESAME-catalyzed H3T11 phosphorylation inhibits Dot1-catalyzed H3K79me3 to regulate autophagy and telomere silencing. 	SESAME-catalyzed H3T11 phosphorylation inhibits Dot1-catalyzed H3K79me3 to regulate autophagy and telomere silencing	H3K79me3 autophagy H3T11 phosphorylation	The glycolytic enzyme, pyruvate kinase Pyk1 maintains telomere heterochromatin by phosphorylating histone H3T11 (H3pT11), which promotes SIR (silent information regulator) complex binding at telomeres and prevents autophagy-mediated Sir2 degradation. However, the exact mechanism of action for H3pT11 is poorly understood. Here, we report that H3pT11 directly inhibits Dot1-catalyzed H3K79 tri-methylation (H3K79me3) and uncover how this histone crosstalk regulates autophagy and telomere silencing. Mechanistically, Pyk1-catalyzed H3pT11 directly reduces the binding of Dot1 to chromatin and inhibits Dot1-catalyzed H3K79me3, which leads to transcriptional repression of autophagy genes and reduced autophagy. Despite the antagonism between H3pT11 and H3K79me3, they work together to promote the binding of SIR complex at telomeres to maintain telomere silencing. Furthermore, we identify Reb1 as a telomere-associated factor that recruits Pyk1-containing SESAME (Serine-responsive SAM-containing Metabolic Enzyme) complex to telomere regions to phosphorylate H3T11 and prevent the invasion of H3K79me3 from euchromatin into heterochromatin to maintain telomere silencing. Together, these results uncover a histone crosstalk and provide insights into dynamic regulation of silent heterochromatin and autophagy in response to cell metabolism.
PXD035452	36475596	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis-Associated Mutants of SOD1 Modulate miRNA Biogenesis through Aberrant Interactions with Exportin 5. 	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis-associated Mutants of SOD1 Modulate miRNA Biogenesis through Aberrant Interactions with Exportin 5	LC-MS Affinity Purification SOD1 APEX	Mutations in the SOD1 (superoxide dismutase 1) gene are associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a fatal neurodegenerative disease. By employing ascorbate peroxidase-based proximity labeling, coupled with LC-MS/MS analysis, we uncovered 43 and 24 proteins exhibiting higher abundance in the proximity proteomes of SOD1(G85R) and SOD1(G93A), respectively, than that of wild-type SOD1. Immunoprecipitation followed by western blot analysis indicated the preferential binding of one of these proteins, exportin 5 (XPO5), toward the two mutants of SOD1 over the wild-type counterpart. In line with the established function of XPO5 in pre-miRNA transport, we observed diminished nucleocytoplasmic transport of pre-miRNAs in cells with ectopic expression of the two SOD1 mutants over those expressing the wild-type protein. On the other hand, RT-qPCR results revealed significant elevations in mature miRNA in cells expressing the two SOD1 mutants, which are attributed to the diminished inhibitory effect of XPO5 on Dicer-mediated cleavage of pre-miRNA to mature miRNA. Together, our chemoproteomic approach led to the revelation of a novel mechanism through which ALS-associated mutants of SOD1 perturb miRNA biogenesis, that is, through aberrant binding toward XPO5.
PXD031018	36475778	Systematic Analysis of Lysine Acetylation Reveals Diverse Functions in Azorhizobium caulinodans Strain ORS571. 	Global lysine acetylation data in Azorhizobium caulinodans ORS 571	lysine acetylation,Azorhizobium caulinodans ORS 571	Protein acetylation can quickly modify the physiology of bacteria to respond to changes in environmental or nutritional conditions, but little information on these modifications is available in rhizobia. In this study, we report the lysine acetylome of Azorhizobium caulinodans strain ORS571, a model rhizobium isolated from stem nodules of the tropical legume Sesbania rostrata that is capable of fixing nitrogen in the free-living state and during symbiosis. Antibody enrichment and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis were used to characterize the acetylome. There are 2,302 acetylation sites from 982 proteins, accounting for 20.8% of the total proteins. Analysis of the acetylated motifs showed the preferences for the amino acid residues around acetylated lysines. The response regulator CheY1, previously characterized to be involved in chemotaxis in strain ORS571, was identified as an acetylated protein, and a mutation of the acetylated site of CheY1 significantly impaired the strain's motility. In addition, a Zn(+)-dependent deacetylase (AZC_0414) was characterized, and the construction of a deletion mutant strain showed that it played a role in chemotaxis. Our study provides the first global analysis of lysine acetylation in ORS571, suggesting that acetylation plays a role in various physiological processes. In addition, we demonstrate its involvement in the chemotaxis process. The acetylome of ORS571 provides insights to investigate the regulation mechanism of rhizobial physiology. IMPORTANCE Acetylation is an important modification that regulates protein function and has been found to regulate physiological processes in various bacteria. The physiology of rhizobium A. caulinodans ORS571 is regulated by multiple mechanisms both when free living and in symbiosis with the host; however, the regulatory role of acetylation is not yet known. Here, we took an acetylome-wide approach to identify acetylated proteins in A. caulinodans ORS571 and performed clustering analyses. Acetylation of chemotaxis proteins was preliminarily investigated, and the upstream acetylation-regulating enzyme involved in chemotaxis was characterized. These findings provide new insights to explore the physiological mechanisms of rhizobia.
PXD034650	36475791	Arginine methylation of BRD4 by PRMT2/4 governs transcription and DNA repair. 	: Arginine methylation of BRD4 by PRMT2/4 governs transcription and DNA repair	BRD4, DNA repair, PRMT2/4, arginine methylation, transcription	BRD4 functions as an epigenetic reader and plays a crucial role in regulating transcription and genome stability. Dysregulation of BRD4 is frequently observed in various human cancers. However, the molecular details of BRD4 regulation remain largely unknown. Here, we report that PRMT2- and PRMT4-mediated arginine methylation is pivotal for BRD4 functions on transcription, DNA repair, and tumor growth. Specifically, PRMT2/4 interacts with and methylates BRD4 at R179, R181, and R183. This arginine methylation selectively controls a transcriptional program by promoting BRD4 recruitment to acetylated histones/chromatin. Moreover, BRD4 arginine methylation is induced by DNA damage and thereby promotes its binding to chromatin for DNA repair. Deficiency in BRD4 arginine methylation significantly suppresses tumor growth and sensitizes cells to BET inhibitors and DNA damaging agents. Therefore, our findings reveal an arginine methylation-dependent regulatory mechanism of BRD4 and highlight targeting PRMT2/4 for better antitumor effect of BET inhibitors and DNA damaging agents.
PXD038010	36476517	Global profiling identifies a stress-responsive tyrosine site on EDC3 regulating biomolecular condensate formation. 	Global profiling identifies a stress-responsive tyrosine site on EDC3 regulating biomolecular condensate formation	EDC3, LLPS, P-bodies, RNA granule, SuTEx, chemoproteomics, condensate, stress, stress granules, tyrosine	RNA granules are cytoplasmic condensates that organize biochemical and signaling complexes in response to cellular stress. Functional proteomic investigations under RNA-granule-inducing conditions are needed to identify protein sites involved in coupling stress response with ribonucleoprotein regulation. Here, we apply chemical proteomics using sulfonyl-triazole (SuTEx) probes to capture cellular responses to oxidative and nutrient stress. The stress-responsive tyrosine and lysine sites detected mapped to known proteins involved in processing body (PB) and stress granule (SG) pathways, including LSM14A, FUS, and Enhancer of mRNA-decapping protein 3 (EDC3). Notably, disruption of EDC3 tyrosine 475 (Y475) resulted in hypo-phosphorylation at S161 and S131 and altered protein-protein interactions (PPIs) with decapping complex components (DDX6, DCP1A/B) and 14-3-3 proteins. This resulting mutant form of EDC3 was capable of rescuing the PB-deficient phenotype of EDC3 knockout cells. Taken together, our findings identify Y475 as an arsenic-responsive site that regulates RNA granule formation by coupling EDC3 post-translational modification and PPI states.
PXD052856	36476851	Systematic multi-omics cell line profiling uncovers principles of Ewing sarcoma fusion oncogene-mediated gene regulation. 	Systematic multi-omics cell line profiling uncovers principles of Ewing sarcoma fusion oncogene-mediated gene regulation	Cell Culture, Ewing Sarcoma	Ewing sarcoma (EwS) is characterized by EWSR1-ETS fusion transcription factors converting polymorphic GGAA microsatellites (mSats) into potent neo-enhancers. Although the paucity of additional mutations makes EwS a genuine model to study principles of cooperation between dominant fusion oncogenes and neo-enhancers, this is impeded by the limited number of well-characterized models. Here we present the Ewing Sarcoma Cell Line Atlas (ESCLA), comprising whole-genome, DNA methylation, transcriptome, proteome, and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) data of 18 cell lines with inducible EWSR1-ETS knockdown. The ESCLA shows hundreds of EWSR1-ETS-targets, the nature of EWSR1-ETS-preferred GGAA mSats, and putative indirect modes of EWSR1-ETS-mediated gene regulation, converging in the duality of a specific but plastic EwS signature. We identify heterogeneously regulated EWSR1-ETS-targets as potential prognostic EwS biomarkers. Our freely available ESCLA (http://r2platform.com/escla/) is a rich resource for EwS research and highlights the power of comprehensive datasets to unravel principles of heterogeneous gene regulation by chimeric transcription factors.
PXD024940	36476874	USP32-regulated LAMTOR1 ubiquitination impacts mTORC1 activation and autophagy induction. 	LAMTOR1 interactome upon knock out of USP32	LAMTOR1, LFQ, Q Exactive HF, USP32, ubiquitin	The endosomal-lysosomal system is a series of organelles in the endocytic pathway that executes trafficking and degradation of proteins and lipids and mediates the internalization of nutrients and growth factors to ensure cell survival, growth, and differentiation. Here, we reveal regulatory, non-proteolytic ubiquitin signals in this complex system that are controlled by the enigmatic deubiquitinase USP32. Knockout (KO) of USP32 in primary hTERT-RPE1 cells results among others in hyperubiquitination of the Ragulator complex subunit LAMTOR1. Accumulation of LAMTOR1 ubiquitination impairs its interaction with the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase, reduces Ragulator function, and ultimately limits mTORC1 recruitment. Consistently, in USP32 KO cells, less mTOR kinase localizes to lysosomes, mTORC1 activity is decreased, and autophagy is induced. Furthermore, we demonstrate that depletion of USP32 homolog CYK-3 in Caenorhabditis elegans results in mTOR inhibition and autophagy induction. In summary, we identify a control mechanism of the mTORC1 activation cascade at lysosomes via USP32-regulated LAMTOR1 ubiquitination.
PXD030579	36477252	Glycosylated proteins in the protozoan alga Euglena gracilis: a proteomic approach. 	Glycosylated proteins identified for the first time in the alga Euglena gracilis	Euglena gracilis, glycoproteins	Protein glycosylation, and in particular N-linked glycans, is a hallmark of eukaryotic cells and has been well-studied in mammalian cells and parasites. However, little research has been conducted to investigate the conservation and variation of protein glycosylation pathways in other eukaryotic organisms. Euglena gracilis is an industrially important microalga, used in the production of biofuels and nutritional supplements. It is evolutionarily highly divergent from green algae and more related to kinetoplastid pathogens. It was recently shown that E. gracilis possesses the machinery for producing a range of protein glycosylations and make simple N-glycans, but the modified proteins were not identified. This study identifies the glycosylated proteins, including transporters, extracellular proteases, and those involved in cell surface signalling. Notably, many of the most highly expressed and glycosylated proteins are not related to any known sequences and are, therefore, likely to be involved in important novel functions in Euglena.
PXD036166	36477263	Remodeling of algal photosystem I through phosphorylation. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of the high light response of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii	Chlamydomonas, phosphorylation, photosynthesis, photosystems	Photosystem I (PSI) with its associated light-harvesting system is the most important generator of reducing power in photosynthesis. The PSI core complex is highly conserved, whereas peripheral subunits as well as light-harvesting proteins (LHCI) reveal a dynamic plasticity. Moreover, in green alga, PSI-LHCI complexes are found as monomers, dimers, and state transition complexes, where two LHCII trimers are associated. Herein, we show light-dependent phosphorylation of PSI subunits PsaG and PsaH as well as Lhca6. Potential consequences of the dynamic phosphorylation of PsaG and PsaH are structurally analyzed and discussed in regard to the formation of the monomeric, dimeric, and LHCII-associated PSI-LHCI complexes.
PXD034930	36477943	Fast and Dynamic Mapping of the Protein Corona on Nanoparticle Surfaces by Photocatalytic Proximity Labeling. 	Photocatalytic proximity labeling technology for nanoparticle protein corona	Nanoparticle, Photocatalytic proximity labeling technology, Plasma proteins, Protein corona	Protein corona broadly affects the delivery of nanomedicines in vivo. Although it has been widely studied by multiple strategies like centrifugal sedimentation, the rapidly forming mechanism and the dynamic structure of the protein corona at the seconds level remains challenging. Here, a photocatalytic proximity labeling technology in nanoparticles (nano-PPL) is developed. By fabricating a "core-shell" nanoparticle co-loaded with chlorin e6 catalyst and biotin-phenol probe, nano-PPL technology is validated for the rapid and precise labeling of corona proteins in situ. Nano-PPL significantly improves the temporal resolution of nano-protein interactions to 5 s duration compared with the classical centrifugation method (>30 s duration). Furthermore, nano-PPL achieves the fast and dynamic mapping of the protein corona on anionic and cationic nanoparticles, respectively. Finally, nano-PPL is deployed to verify the effect of the rapidly formed protein corona on the initial interaction of nanoparticles with cells. These findings highlight a significant methodological advance toward nano-protein interactions in the delivery of nanomedicines in vivo.
PXD034350	36479207	Dynamic regulation of the transcriptome and proteome of the equine embryo during maternal recognition of pregnancy. 	Dynamic regulation of the proteome of the equine embryo during maternal recognition of pregnancy.	Embryo, Equus caballus, pregancy	During initial maternal recognition of pregnancy (MRP), the equine embryo displays a series of unique events characterized by rapid blastocyst expansion, secretion of a diverse array of molecules, and transuterine migration to interact with the uterine surface. Up to date, the intricate transcriptome and proteome changes of the embryo underlying these events have not been critically studied in horses. Thus, the objective of this study was to perform an integrative transcriptomic (including mRNA, miRNAs, and other small non-coding RNAs) and proteomic analysis of embryos collected from days 10 to 13 of gestation. The results revealed dynamic transcriptome profiles with a total of 1311 differentially expressed genes, including 18 microRNAs (miRNAs). Two main profiles for mRNAs and miRNAs were identified, one with higher expression in embryos <=5 mm and the second with higher expression in embryos >=7 mm. At the protein level, similar results were obtained, with 259 differentially abundant proteins between small and large embryos. Overall, the findings demonstrated fine-tuned transcriptomic and proteomic regulations in the developing embryo associated with embryo growth. The identification of specific regulation of mRNAs, proteins, and miRNAs on days 12 and 13 of gestation suggested these molecules as pivotal for embryo development and as involved in MRP, and in establishment of pregnancy in general. In addition, the results revealed new insights into prostaglandin synthesis by the equine embryo, miRNAs and genes potentially involved in modulation of the maternal immune response, regulation of endometrial receptivity and of late implantation in the mare.
PXD036468	36479985	Differentially expressed glycoproteins in pre- and post-digital rectal examination urine samples for detecting aggressive prostate cancer. 	Differentially Expressed Glycoproteins in Pre- and Post-Digital Rectal Examination Urine Samples for Detecting Aggressive Prostate Cancer	aggressive prostate cancer, digital rectal examination, glycoproteomics, urinary glycoproteins	Urinary glycoproteins associated with aggressive prostate cancer (AG-PCa) were previously reported using post-digital rectal examination (DRE) urine specimens. To explore the potential of using pre-DRE urine specimens for detecting AG-PCa, we compared glycoproteins between pre- and post-DRE urine specimens, verified the previously identified post-DRE AG-PCa-associated urinary glycoproteins in pre-DRE urine specimens, and explored potential new glycoproteins for AG-PCa detection in pre-DRE urine specimens. Quantitative glycoproteomic data were acquired for 154 pre-DRE urine specimens from 41 patients with no cancer at biopsy, 48 patients with non-AG-PCa (Gleason score = 6), and 65 patients with AG-PCa (Gleason score 7 or above). Compared to glycopeptides from the post-DRE urine data, humoral immunity-related proteins were enriched in pre-DRE urine samples, whereas cell mediated immune response proteins were enriched in post-DRE urine samples. Analyses of AG-PCa-associated glycoproteins from pre-DRE urine revealed that the three urinary glycoproteins, prostate-specific antigen (PSA), prostatic acid phosphatase (ACPP), and CD97 antigen (CD97) that were previously identified in post-DRE urine samples, were also observed as AG-PCa associated glycoproteins in pre-DRE urine. In addition, we identified three new glycoproteins, fibrillin 1 (FBN1), vitronectin (VTN), and hemicentin 2 (HMCN2), to be potentially associated with AG-PCa in pre-DRE urine specimens. In summary, glycoprotein profiles differ between pre- and post-DRE urine specimens. The identified AG-PCa-associated glycoproteins may be further evaluated in large cohort of pre-DRE urine specimens for detecting clinically significant PCa.
PXD032278	36480164	Metabolic reconstruction of the near complete microbiome of the model sponge Ianthella basta. 	Complete metabolic reconstruction of the microbiome of the model sponge Ianthella basta	host-microbe interaction, marine sponge, metaproteomics	Many marine sponges host highly diverse microbiomes that contribute to various aspects of host health. Although the putative function of individual groups of sponge symbionts has been increasingly described, the extreme diversity has generally precluded in-depth characterization of entire microbiomes, including identification of syntrophic partnerships. The Indo-Pacific sponge Ianthella basta is emerging as a model organism for symbiosis research, hosting only three dominant symbionts: a Thaumarchaeotum, a Gammaproteobacterium, and an Alphaproteobacterium and a range of other low abundance or transitory taxa. Here, we retrieved metagenome assembled genomes (MAGs) representing >90% of I. basta's microbial community, facilitating the metabolic reconstruction of the sponge's near complete microbiome. Through this analysis, we identified metabolic complementarity between microbes, including vitamin sharing, described the importance of low abundance symbionts, and characterized a novel microbe-host attachment mechanism in the Alphaproteobacterium. We further identified putative viral sequences, highlighting the role viruses can play in maintaining symbioses in I. basta through the horizontal transfer of eukaryotic-like proteins, and complemented this data with metaproteomics to identify active metabolic pathways in bacteria, archaea, and viruses. This data provide the framework to adopt I. basta as a model organism for studying host-microbe interactions and provide a basis for in-depth physiological experiments.
PXD029416	36480176	Acetic Acid Ion Pairing Additive for Reversed-Phase HPLC Improves Detection Sensitivity in Bottom-up Proteomics Compared to Formic Acid. 	Formic acid and Acetic acid for peptide LC-MS	ESI, Reversed phase chromatography, peptide, phosphopeptide	Despite the general acceptance of formic acid as the additive of choice for peptide reversed-phase LC-MS/MS applications, some still argue that the selection of acetic acid represents a better option. To settle this debate, we investigated both the difference in MS sensitivity and chromatographic behavior of peptides between these two systems. This interlaboratory study was performed using different MS setups and C18 separation media employing both 0.1% formic and 0.5% acetic acid as ion pairing modifiers. Relative to formic acid, we find an overall ~2.2-2.5x increase in MS signal and a slight decrease in RP LC retention (-0.7% acetonitrile on average) for acetic acid conditions. While these two features have opposing effects on peptide detectability, we find that acetic acid produces up to 60% higher peptide ID output depending on the type of sample. The drop in RPLC retention increases with peptide net charge at acidic pH. MS signal is dependent on the difference between the charge of the precursor ion and the charge of the peptide in solution, favoring species with a low pI. Lower peptide retention under acetic acid conditions demonstrates its higher hydrophilicity and, as expected, leads to composition and sequence-dependent character of the observed retention shift.
PXD033914	36480405	The ubiquitin-like protein Hub1/UBL-5 functions in pre-mRNA splicing in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	Pre-mRNA splicing function of the ubiquitin-like protein Hub1/UBL-5 in Caenorhabditis elegans	Pre-mRNA splicing, outron-containing transcripts, spliceosome, trans-splicing and C. elegans	The ubiquitin-like protein Hub1/UBL-5 associates with proteins non-covalently. Hub1 promotes alternative splicing and splicing of precursor mRNAs with weak introns in yeast and mammalian cells; however, its splicing function has remained elusive in multicellular organisms. Here, we demonstrate the splicing function of Hub1/UBL-5 in the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Hub1/UBL-5 binds to the HIND-containing splicing factors Snu66/SART-1 and PRP-38 and associates with other spliceosomal proteins. C. elegans hub1/ubl-5 mutants die at the Larval 3 stage and show splicing defects for selected targets, similar to the mutants in yeast and mammalian cells. UBL-5 complemented growth and splicing defects in Schizosaccharomyces pombe hub1 mutants, confirming its functional conservation. Thus, UBL-5 is important for C. elegans development and plays a conserved pre-mRNA splicing function.
PXD035289	36482407	Temporal proteomics of human cerebrospinal fluid after severe traumatic brain injury. 	Temporal proteomics of human cerebrospinal fluid reveals novel differentially-regulated proteins after severe traumatic brain injury	TBI, biomarker, cerebrospinal fluid, inflammation, proteins, secondary injury	The pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury (TBI) requires further characterization to fully elucidate changes in molecular pathways. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) provides a rich repository of brain-associated proteins. In this retrospective observational study, we implemented high-resolution mass spectrometry to evaluate changes to the CSF proteome after severe TBI. 91 CSF samples were analyzed with mass spectrometry, collected from 16 patients with severe TBI (mean 32 yrs; 81% male) on day 0, 1, 2, 4, 7 and/or 10 post-injury (8-16 samples/timepoint) and compared to CSF obtained from 11 non-injured controls. We quantified 1152 proteins with mass spectrometry, of which approximately 80% were associated with CSF. 1083 proteins were differentially regulated after TBI compared to control samples. The most highly-upregulated proteins at each timepoint included neutrophil elastase, myeloperoxidase, cathepsin G, matrix metalloproteinase-8, and S100 calcium-binding proteins A8, A9 and A12-all proteins involved in neutrophil activation, recruitment, and degranulation. Pathway enrichment analysis confirmed the robust upregulation of proteins associated with innate immune responses. Conversely, downregulated pathways included those involved in nervous system development, and several proteins not previously identified after TBI such as testican-1 and latrophilin-1. We also identified 7 proteins (GM2A, Calsyntenin 1, FAT2, GANAB, Lumican, NPTX1, SFRP2) positively associated with an unfavorable outcome at 6 months post-injury. Together, these findings highlight the robust innate immune response that occurs after severe TBI, supporting future studies to target neutrophil-related processes. In addition, the novel proteins we identified to be differentially regulated by severe TBI warrant further investigation as potential biomarkers of brain damage or therapeutic targets.
PXD030927	36482940	Comparative glycoproteomics study on the surface of SKOV3 versus IOSE80 cell lines. 	Comparative glycomics study on the surface of SKOV3 versus IOSE80 cell lines	SKOV3 IOSE80	Objective: Site- and structure-specific quantitative N-glycoproteomics study of differential cell-surface N-glycosylation of ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells with the non-cancerous ovarian epithelial IOSE80 cells as the control. Methods: C18-RPLC-MS/MS (HCD with stepped normalized collision energies) was used to analyze the 1: 1 mixture of labeled intact N-glycopeptides from SKOV3 and IOSE80 cells, and the site- and structure-specific intact N-glycopeptide search engine GPSeeker was used to conduct qualitative and quantitative search on the obtained raw datasets. Results: With the control of the spectrum-level false discovery rate <=1%, 13,822 glycopeptide spectral matches coming from 2,918 N-glycoproteins with comprehensive N-glycosite and N-glycan structure information were identified; 3,733 N-glycosites and 3,754 N-glycan sequence structures were confirmed by site-determining and structure-diagnostic fragment ions, respectively. With the control of no less than two observations among the three technical replicates, fold change >=1.5, and p-value <= 0.05, 746 DEPGs in SKOV3 cells relative to IOSE80 cells were quantified, where 421 were upregulated and 325 downregulated. Conclusion: Differential cell-surface N-glycosylation of ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells were quantitatively analyzed by isotopic labeling and site- and structure-specific N-glycoproteomics. This discovery study provides putative N-glycoprotein biomarker candidates for future validation study using multiple reaction monitoring and biochemical methods.
PXD009835	36483536	Phosphoproteomic mapping of CCR5 and ACKR2 signaling properties. 	D6_T3                         .	D6 phosphoproteimics  SILAC	ACKR2 is an atypical chemokine receptor which is structurally uncoupled from G proteins and is unable to activate signaling pathways used by conventional chemokine receptors to promote cell migration. Nonetheless, ACKR2 regulates inflammatory and immune responses by shaping chemokine gradients in tissues via scavenging inflammatory chemokines. To investigate the signaling pathways downstream to ACKR2, a quantitative SILAC-based phosphoproteomic analysis coupled with a systems biology approach with network analysis, was carried out on a HEK293 cell model expressing either ACKR2 or its conventional counterpart CCR5. The model was stimulated with the common agonist CCL3L1 for short (3 min) and long (30 min) durations. As expected, many of the identified proteins are known to participate in conventional signal transduction pathways and in the regulation of cytoskeleton dynamics. However, our analyses revealed unique phosphorylation and network signatures, suggesting roles for ACKR2 other than its scavenger activity. In conclusion, the mapping of phosphorylation events at a holistic level indicated that conventional and atypical chemokine receptors differ in signaling properties. This provides an unprecedented level of detail in chemokine receptor signaling and identifying potential targets for the regulation of ACKR2 and CCR5 function.
PXD036552	36483554	Proteomic characteristics of saliva in patients with different subgroups of IgG4-RD. 	The proteomics of IgG4-related disease and healthy controls	Healthy controls, IgG4-related disease	Background: Immunoglobulin G4-related disease (IgG4-RD) is a newly defined disease entity, with great heterogeneity among IgG4-RD subgroups with different organ involvement patterns. Identification of the proteomic characteristics of IgG4-RD subgroups will be critical for the understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of IgG4-RD. Method: In this study, we performed proteomic analysis using Tandem Mass Tags (TMT) technology with "high field" mass analyzer with improved resolution and sequencing speed to investigate the proteomic profile of saliva and plasma samples from ten untreated IgG4-RD patients and five healthy controls (HCs). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified by "t test" function in R package. Functional enrichment analysis was used to investigate pathways enriched in IgG4-RD samples. Results: Most salivary DEPs identified in IgG4-RD patients compared with HCs were mainly enriched in neutrophil mediated GO bioprocess. Within the comparisons between four IgG4-RD subgroups, more DEPs were identified in the comparison of Mikulicz group and Head and neck group. Among four subgroups of IgG4-RD, Head and neck group showed the most distinctive proteomic expression pattern when compared with HCs. Moreover, "Neutrophil mediated process" related GO bioprocess was commonly identified between comparisons of Mikulicz group and Head and neck group, Head and neck group and Retroperitoneal aorta group, Head and neck group and HCs, IgG4-RD patients with saliva gland involvement and those without saliva gland involvement. Key DEPs that involved in this GO bioprocess were identified. Besides, we performed proteomic analysis for plasma samples between ten IgG4-RD and five HCs and there were several DEPs identified overlapped in saliva and plasma. Conclusion: We identified multiple processes/factors and several signaling pathways in saliva that may be involved in the IgG4-RD pathogenesis.
PXD037579	36483564	IL-17A and TNF-alpha inhibitors induce multiple molecular changes in psoriasis. 	IL-17A and TNF-alpha inhibitors induce multiple molecules andsignal pathway change in psoriasis	Biological Agent, Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, Parallel Reaction Monitoring, Psoriasis	Adalimumab and secukinumab are commonly used for moderate to severe psoriasis vulgaris (PV). Although distinct individual responses to and impaired effectiveness of these biological agents occur occasionally, little is known about the underlying reasons. Here, we report a proteomic analysis of psoriatic lesions from patients treated with these drugs using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS). Thousands of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) changed over 12 weeks of treatment. Network analysis showed that DEPs could interact and induce transformation in matrix components, metabolic regulation, and immune response. The results of parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis suggested that S100s, STAT1, KRT2, TYMP, SOD2, HSP90AB1, TFRC, and COL5A1 were the most significantly changed proteins in both groups. There was a positive association between the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score and three proteins (TFRC, IMPDH2, KRT2). Our study findings suggest that inhibition of IL-17A and TNF-alpha can induce changes in multiple molecules in psoriatic lesions and have an overlapping influence on the immune response and process through direct or indirect effects.
PXD033100	36484105	Salmonella antibacterial Rhs polymorphic toxin inhibits translation through ADP-ribosylation of EF-Tu P-loop. 	Salmonella antibacterial Rhs polymorphic toxin inhibits translation through ADP-ribosylation of EF-Tu P-loop	ADPribosylation, P-loop, T6SS, elongation factor, modification, rearrangement hot spots, toxin, translation	Rearrangement hot spot (Rhs) proteins are members of the broad family of polymorphic toxins. Polymorphic toxins are modular proteins composed of an N-terminal region that specifies their mode of secretion into the medium or into the target cell, a central delivery module, and a C-terminal domain that has toxic activity. Here, we structurally and functionally characterize the C-terminal toxic domain of the antibacterial Rhsmain protein, TreTu, which is delivered by the type VI secretion system of Salmonella enterica Typhimurium. We show that this domain adopts an ADP-ribosyltransferase fold and inhibits protein synthesis by transferring an ADP-ribose group from NAD+ to the elongation factor Tu (EF-Tu). This modification is specifically placed on the side chain of the conserved D21 residue located on the P-loop of the EF-Tu G-domain. Finally, we demonstrate that the TriTu immunity protein neutralizes TreTu activity by acting like a lid that closes the catalytic site and traps the NAD+.
PXD033702	36490335	Biochemical and structural insights into SARS-CoV-2 polyprotein processing by Mpro. 	Biochemical and structural insights into SARS-CoV-2 polyprotein processing by Mpro (HDX-MS pulse labeling)	Covid-19, HDX-MS, Mpro, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, polyprotein, pulse labeling	SARS-CoV-2, a human coronavirus, is the causative agent of the COVID-19 pandemic. Its genome is translated into two large polyproteins subsequently cleaved by viral papain-like protease and main protease (Mpro). Polyprotein processing is essential yet incompletely understood. We studied Mpro-mediated processing of the nsp7-11 polyprotein, whose mature products include cofactors of the viral replicase, and identified the order of cleavages. Integrative modeling based on mass spectrometry (including hydrogen-deuterium exchange and cross-linking) and x-ray scattering yielded a nsp7-11 structural ensemble, demonstrating shared secondary structural elements with individual nsps. The pattern of cross-links and HDX footprint of the C145A Mpro and nsp7-11 complex demonstrate preferential binding of the enzyme active site to the polyprotein junction sites and additional transient contacts to help orient the enzyme on its substrate for cleavage. Last, proteolysis assays were used to characterize the effect of inhibitors/binders on Mpro processing/inhibition using the nsp7-11 polyprotein as substrate.
PXD031401	36490367	Cov(2)MS: An Automated and Quantitative Matrix-Independent Assay for Mass Spectrometric Measurement of SARS-CoV-2 Nucleocapsid Protein. 	CovMS: an automated matrix-independent assay for mass spectrometric detection and measurement of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein	Covid-19, Diagnostics, Peptides, SARS-CoV-2, Viral proteins	The pandemic readiness toolbox needs to be extended, targeting different biomolecules, using orthogonal experimental set-ups. Here, we build on our Cov-MS effort using LC-MS, adding SISCAPA technology to enrich proteotypic peptides of the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) protein from trypsin-digested patient samples. The Cov(2)MS assay is compatible with most matrices including nasopharyngeal swabs, saliva, and plasma and has increased sensitivity into the attomole range, a 1000-fold improvement compared to direct detection in a matrix. A strong positive correlation was observed with qPCR detection beyond a quantification cycle of 30-31, the level where no live virus can be cultured. The automatable sample preparation and reduced LC dependency allow analysis of up to 500 samples per day per instrument. Importantly, peptide enrichment allows detection of the N protein in pooled samples without sensitivity loss. Easily multiplexed, we detect variants and propose targets for Influenza A and B detection. Thus, the Cov(2)MS assay can be adapted to test for many different pathogens in pooled samples, providing longitudinal epidemiological monitoring of large numbers of pathogens within a population as an early warning system.
PXD030616	36493345	RUNX1 isoform disequilibrium promotes the development of trisomy 21-associated myeloid leukemia. 	RUNX1 isoforms in leukemogenesis	Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Down syndrome, GATA1, RUNX1, Transient Abnormal Myelopoiesis	Gain of chromosome 21 (Hsa21) is among the most frequent aneuploidies in leukemia. However, it remains unclear how partial or complete amplifications of Hsa21 promote leukemogenesis and why children with Down syndrome (DS) (ie, trisomy 21) are particularly at risk of leukemia development. Here, we propose that RUNX1 isoform disequilibrium with RUNX1A bias is key to DS-associated myeloid leukemia (ML-DS). Starting with Hsa21-focused CRISPR-CRISPR-associated protein 9 screens, we uncovered a strong and specific RUNX1 dependency in ML-DS cells. Expression of the RUNX1A isoform is elevated in patients with ML-DS, and mechanistic studies using murine ML-DS models and patient-derived xenografts revealed that excess RUNX1A synergizes with the pathognomonic Gata1s mutation during leukemogenesis by displacing RUNX1C from its endogenous binding sites and inducing oncogenic programs in complex with the MYC cofactor MAX. These effects were reversed by restoring the RUNX1A:RUNX1C equilibrium in patient-derived xenografts in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, pharmacological interference with MYC:MAX dimerization using MYCi361 exerted strong antileukemic effects. Thus, our study highlights the importance of alternative splicing in leukemogenesis, even on a background of aneuploidy, and paves the way for the development of specific and targeted therapies for ML-DS, as well as for other leukemias with Hsa21 aneuploidy or RUNX1 isoform disequilibrium.
PXD032079	36493393	SEC14-GOLD protein PATELLIN2 binds IRON-REGULATED TRANSPORTER1 linking root iron uptake to vitamin E. 	Arabidopsis thaliana PATLN 2 interactome	PATLN2, ferroptosis, iron, roots	Organisms require micronutrients, and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) IRON-REGULATED TRANSPORTER1 (IRT1) is essential for iron (Fe2+) acquisition into root cells. Uptake of reactive Fe2+ exposes cells to the risk of membrane lipid peroxidation. Surprisingly little is known about how this is avoided. IRT1 activity is controlled by an intracellular variable region (IRT1vr) that acts as a regulatory protein interaction platform. Here, we describe that IRT1vr interacted with peripheral plasma membrane SEC14-Golgi dynamics (SEC14-GOLD) protein PATELLIN2 (PATL2). SEC14 proteins bind lipophilic substrates and transport or present them at the membrane. To date, no direct roles have been attributed to SEC14 proteins in Fe import. PATL2 affected root Fe acquisition responses, interacted with ROS response proteins in roots, and alleviated root lipid peroxidation. PATL2 had high affinity in vitro for the major lipophilic antioxidant vitamin E compound alpha-tocopherol. Molecular dynamics simulations provided insight into energetic constraints and the orientation and stability of the PATL2-ligand interaction in atomic detail. Hence, this work highlights a compelling mechanism connecting vitamin E with root metal ion transport at the plasma membrane with the participation of an IRT1-interacting and alpha-tocopherol-binding SEC14 protein.
PXD032994	36493779	Integrated transcriptome-proteome analyses of human stem cells reveal source-dependent differences in their regenerative signature. 	Proteomic Analysis of Umbilical Cord and Adult Mesenchymal Stem Cells	stem cells	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are gaining increasing prominence as an effective regenerative cellular therapy. However, ensuring consistent and reliable effects across clinical populations has proved to be challenging. In part, this can be attributed to heterogeneity in the intrinsic molecular and regenerative signature of MSCs, which is dependent on their source of origin. The present work uses integrated omics-based profiling, at different functional levels, to compare the anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, and angiogenic properties between MSCs from neonatal (umbilical cord MSC [UC-MSC]) and adult (adipose tissue MSC [AD-MSC], and bone marrow MSC [BM-MSC]) sources. Using multi-parametric analyses, we identified that UC-MSCs promote a more robust host innate immune response; in contrast, adult-MSCs appear to facilitate remodeling of the extracellular matrix (ECM) with stronger activation of angiogenic cascades. These data should help facilitate the standardization of source-specific MSCs, such that their regenerative signatures can be confidently used to target specific disease processes.
PXD035726	36494437	Acute and chronic blood serum proteome changes in patients with methanol poisoning. 	Human serum samples - Acute and chronic blood serum proteome changes in patients with methanol poisoning	acute poisoning, methanol, serum	Twenty-four blood serum samples from patients with acute methanol poisoning (M) from the mass methanol poisoning outbreak in the Czech Republic in 2012 were compared with 46 patient samples taken four years after poisoning (S) (overlap of 10 people with group M) and with a control group (C) of 24 samples of patients with a similar proportion of chronic alcohol abuse. When comparing any two groups, tens to hundreds of proteins with a significant change in concentration were identified. Fifteen proteins showed significant changes when compared between any two groups. The group with acute methanol poisoning showed significant changes in protein concentrations for at least 64 proteins compared to the other groups. Among the most important identified proteins closely related to intoxication are mainly those involved in blood coagulation, metabolism of vitamin A (increased retinol-binding protein), immune response (e.g., increased complement factor I, complement factors C3 and C5), and lipid transport (increased apolipoprotein A I, apolipoprotein A II, adiponectin). For blood coagulation, the most affected proteins with significant changes in the methanol poisoning group were von Willebrand factor, carboxypeptidase N, alpha-2-antiplasmin (all increased), inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H4, kininogen-1, plasma serine protease inhibitor, plasminogen (all decreased). However, heparin administration used for the methanol poisoning group could have interfered with some of the changes in their concentrations. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD035726.
PXD037406	36494469	An oncogene addiction phosphorylation signature and its derived scores inform tumor responsiveness to targeted therapies. 	An oncogene addiction phosphorylation signature and its derived scores inform tumor responsiveness to targeted therapies	oncogene addiction, phosphosignature, selected reaction monitoring	PURPOSE: Oncogene addiction provides important therapeutic opportunities for precision oncology treatment strategies. To date the cellular circuitries associated with driving oncoproteins, which eventually establish the phenotypic manifestation of oncogene addiction, remain largely unexplored. Data suggest the DNA damage response (DDR) as a central signaling network that intersects with pathways associated with deregulated addicting oncoproteins with kinase activity in cancer cells. EXPERIMENTAL: DESIGN: We employed a targeted mass spectrometry approach to systematically explore alterations in 116 phosphosites related to oncogene signaling and its intersection with the DDR following inhibition of the addicting oncogene alone or in combination with irradiation in MET-, EGFR-, ALK- or BRAF (V600)-positive cancer models. An NSCLC tissue pipeline combining patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) and ex vivo patient organotypic cultures has been established for treatment responsiveness assessment. RESULTS: We identified an 'oncogene addiction phosphorylation signature' (OAPS) consisting of 8 protein phosphorylations (ACLY S455, IF4B S422, IF4G1 S1231, LIMA1 S490, MYCN S62, NCBP1 S22, P3C2A S259 and TERF2 S365) that are significantly suppressed upon targeted oncogene inhibition solely in addicted cell line models and patient tissues. We show that the OAPS is present in patient tissues and the OAPS-derived score strongly correlates with the ex vivo responses to targeted treatments. CONCLUSIONS: We propose a score derived from OAPS as a quantitative measure to evaluate oncogene addiction of cancer cell samples. This work underlines the importance of protein phosphorylation assessment for patient stratification in precision oncology and corresponding identification of tumor subtypes sensitive to inhibition of a particular oncogene.
PXD036822	36494494	High-quality and robust protein quantification in large clinical/pharmaceutical cohorts with IonStar proteomics investigation. 	High-quality and robust protein quantification in large clinical cohort of serum samples with IonStar	IonStar, high-resolution mass spectrometry, large-cohort clinical study, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, quantitative proteomics	Robust, reliable quantification of large sample cohorts is often essential for meaningful clinical or pharmaceutical proteomics investigations, but it is technically challenging. When analyzing very large numbers of samples, isotope labeling approaches may suffer from substantial batch effects, and even with label-free methods, it becomes evident that low-abundance proteins are not reliably measured owing to unsufficient reproducibility for quantification. The MS1-based quantitative proteomics pipeline IonStar was designed to address these challenges. IonStar is a label-free approach that takes advantage of the high sensitivity/selectivity attainable by ultrahigh-resolution (UHR)-MS1 acquisition (e.g., 120-240k full width at half maximum at m/z = 200) which is now widely available on ultrahigh-field Orbitrap instruments. By selectively and accurately procuring quantitative features of peptides within precisely defined, very narrow m/z windows corresponding to the UHR-MS1 resolution, the method minimizes co-eluted interferences and substantially enhances signal-to-noise ratio of low-abundance species by decreasing noise level. This feature results in high sensitivity, selectivity, accuracy and precision for quantification of low-abundance proteins, as well as fewer missing data and fewer false positives. This protocol also emphasizes the importance of well-controlled, robust experimental procedures to achieve high-quality quantification across a large cohort. It includes a surfactant cocktail-aided sample preparation procedure that achieves high/reproducible protein/peptide recoveries among many samples, and a trapping nano-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry strategy for sensitive and reproducible acquisition of UHR-MS1 peptide signal robustly across a large cohort. Data processing and quality evaluation are illustrated using an example dataset ( http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org ), and example results from pharmaceutical project and one clinical project (patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome) are shown. The complete IonStar pipeline takes ~1-2 weeks for a sample cohort containing ~50-100 samples.
PXD034916	36494688	Male guanine-rich RNA sequence binding factor 1 knockout mice (Grsf1(-/-)) gain less body weight during adolescence and adulthood. 	Systemic knockout of the guanine-rich RNA sequence binding factor 1 gene (Grsf1-/-) induces gender specific developmental retardation in male individuals when aging.	RNA binding proteins, embryogenesis, gene expression regulation, hematopoiesis, lipoxygenase, redox homeostasis	The guanine-rich RNA sequence binding factor 1 (GRSF1) is an RNA-binding protein of the heterogenous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H/F (hnRNP H/F) family that binds to guanine-rich RNA sequences forming G-quadruplex structures. In mice and humans there are single copy GRSF1 genes, but multiple transcripts have been reported. GRSF1 has been implicated in a number of physiological processes (e.g. embryogenesis, erythropoiesis, redox homeostasis, RNA metabolism) but also in the pathogenesis of viral infections and hyperproliferative diseases. These postulated biological functions of GRSF1 originate from in vitro studies rather than complex in vivo systems. To assess the in vivo relevance of these findings, we created systemic Grsf1(-/-) knockout mice lacking exons 4 and 5 of the Grsf1 gene and compared the basic functional characteristics of these animals with those of wildtype controls. We found that Grsf1-deficient mice are viable, reproduce normally and have fully functional hematopoietic systems. Up to an age of 15 weeks they develop normally but when male individuals grow older, they gain significantly less body weight than wildtype controls in a gender-specific manner. Profiling Grsf1 mRNA expression in different mouse tissues we observed high concentrations in testis. Comparison of the testicular transcriptomes of Grsf1(-/-) mice and wildtype controls confirmed near complete knock-out of Grsf1 but otherwise subtle differences in transcript regulations. Comparative testicular proteome analyses suggested perturbed mitochondrial respiration in Grsf1(-/-) mice which may be related to compromised expression of complex I proteins. Here we present, for the first time, an in vivo complete Grsf1 knock-out mouse with comprehensive physiological, transcriptomic and proteomic characterization to improve our understanding of the GRSF1 beyond in vitro cell culture models.
PXD027341	36495079	Glioblastoma stem cells express non-canonical proteins and exclusive mesenchymal-like or non-mesenchymal-like protein signatures. 	Proteomic profiling of glioblastoma tumour tissue	HiRIEF, brain cancer, glioblastoma, tissue	Glioblastoma (GBM) cancer stem cells (GSCs) contribute to GBM's origin, recurrence, and resistance to treatment. However, the understanding of how mRNA expression patterns of GBM subtypes are reflected at global proteome level in GSCs is limited. To characterize protein expression in GSCs, we performed in-depth proteogenomic analysis of patient-derived GSCs by RNA-sequencing and mass-spectrometry. We quantified > 10 000 proteins in two independent GSC panels and propose a GSC-associated proteomic signature characterizing two distinct phenotypic conditions; one defined by proteins upregulated in proneural and classical GSCs (GPC-like), and another by proteins upregulated in mesenchymal GSCs (GM-like). The GM-like protein set in GBM tissue was associated with necrosis, recurrence, and worse overall survival. Through proteogenomics, we discovered 252 non-canonical peptides in the GSCs, i.e., protein sequences that are variant or derive from genome regions previously considered non-protein-coding, including variants of the heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins implicated in RNA splicing. In summary, GSCs express two protein sets that have an inverse association with clinical outcomes in GBM. The discovery of non-canonical protein sequences questions existing gene models and pinpoints new protein targets for research in GBM.
PXD037970	36495123	Cystatin B increases autophagic flux by sustaining proteolytic activity of cathepsin B and fuels glycolysis in pancreatic cancer: CSTB orchestrates autophagy and glycolysis in PDAC. 	CSTB increases autophagic flux by sustaining the proteolytic activity of Cathepsin B and fuels glycolysis in pancreatic cancer	Interactome of CSTB	BACKGROUND: Both autophagy and glycolysis are essential for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) survival due to desmoplasia. We investigated whether targeting a hub gene which participates in both processes could be an efficient strategy for PDAC treatment. METHODS: The expression pattern of glycolysis signatures (GS) and autophagy signatures (AS) and their correlation with cystatin B (CSTB) in PDAC were analysed. It was discovered how CSTB affected the growth, glycolysis, and autophagy of PDAC cells. We assessed competitive binding to cathepsin B (CTSB) between CSTB and cystatin C (CSTC) via immunoprecipitation (IP) and immunofluorescence (IF). Chromatin immunoprecipitation quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and luciferase reporter gene assays were used to unveil the mechanism underlying CSTB upregulation. The expression pattern of CSTB was examined in clinical samples and KrasG12D/+, Trp53R172H/+, Pdx1-Cre (KPC) mice. RESULTS: GS and AS were enriched and closely associated in PDAC tissues. CSTB increased autophagic flux and provided substrates for glycolysis. CSTB knockdown attenuated the proliferation of PDAC cells and patient-derived xenografts. The liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay indicated CSTB interacted with CTSB and contributed to the proteolytic activity of CTSB in lysosomes. IF and IP assays demonstrated that CSTB competed with CSTC to bind to CTSB. Mutation of the key sites of CSTB abolished the interaction between CSTB and CTSB. CSTB was highly expressed in PDAC due to H3K27acetylation and SP1 expression. High expression of CSTB in PDAC was observed in tissue microarray and patients' serum samples. CONCLUSIONS: Our work demonstrated the tumorigenic roles of autophagy and glycolysis in PDAC. CSTB is a key role in orchestrating these processes to ensure energy supply of PDAC cells.
PXD036133	36495310	Profiling the Heme-Binding Proteomes of Bacteria Using Chemical Proteomics. 	Profiling the heme-binding proteomes of bacteria using chemical proteomics	Bacterial pathogens, cofactor, heme	Heme is a cofactor with myriad roles and essential to almost all living organisms. Beyond classical gas transport and catalytic functions, heme is increasingly appreciated as a tightly controlled signalling molecule regulating protein expression. However, heme acquisition, biosynthesis and regulation is poorly understood beyond a few model organisms, and the heme-binding proteome has not been fully characterised in bacteria. Yet as heme homeostasis is critical for bacterial survival, heme-binding proteins are promising drug targets. Herein we report a chemical proteomics method for global profiling of heme-binding proteins in live cells for the first time. Employing a panel of heme-based clickable and photoaffinity probes enabled the profiling of 32-54 % of the known heme-binding proteomes in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. This simple-to-implement profiling strategy could be interchangeably applied to different cell types and systems and fuel future research into heme biology.
PXD036296	36495869	Excessive proteostasis contributes to pathology in fragile X syndrome. 	Analysis of changes in protein expression in inferior colliculus	AGS, Fragile X, inferior colliculus, proteasome	In fragile X syndrome (FX), the leading monogenic cause of autism, excessive neuronal protein synthesis is a core pathophysiology; however, an overall increase in protein expression is not observed. Here, we tested whether excessive protein synthesis drives a compensatory rise in protein degradation that is protective for FX mouse model (Fmr1(-/y)) neurons. Surprisingly, although we find a significant increase in protein degradation through ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS), this contributes to pathological changes. Normalizing proteasome activity with bortezomib corrects excessive hippocampal protein synthesis and hyperactivation of neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) in response to auditory stimulation. Moreover, systemic administration of bortezomib significantly reduces the incidence and severity of audiogenic seizures (AGS) in the Fmr1(-/y) mouse, as does genetic reduction of proteasome, specifically in the IC. Together, these results identify excessive activation of the UPS pathway in Fmr1(-/y) neurons as a contributor to multiple phenotypes that can be targeted for therapeutic intervention.
PXD036646	36495876	Epidermal stratification requires retromer-mediated desmoglein-1 recycling. 	Epidermal Stratification Requires Retromer-Mediated Desmoglein-1 Recycling	BioID, Dsg1, GLUT1, SAM syndrome, VPS35, cadherin, desmosome, endosomal trafficking, epidermal differentiation, keratinocyte, retromer chaperone, skin disease	Sorting transmembrane cargo is essential for tissue development and homeostasis. However, mechanisms of intracellular trafficking in stratified epidermis are poorly understood. Here, we identify an interaction between the retromer endosomal trafficking component, VPS35, and the desmosomal cadherin, desmoglein-1 (Dsg1). Dsg1 is specifically expressed in stratified epidermis and, when properly localized on the plasma membrane of basal keratinocytes, promotes stratification. We show that the retromer drives Dsg1 recycling from the endo-lysosomal system to the plasma membrane to support human keratinocyte stratification. The retromer-enhancing chaperone, R55, promotes the membrane localization of Dsg1 and a trafficking-deficient mutant associated with a severe inflammatory skin disorder, enhancing its ability to promote stratification. In the absence of Dsg1, retromer association with and expression of the glucose transporter GLUT1 increases, exposing a potential link between Dsg1 deficiency and epidermal metabolism. Our work provides evidence for retromer function in epidermal regeneration, identifying it as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD036708	36496390	Structure of nucleosome-bound human PBAF complex. 	Structure of nucleosome-bound human PBAF complex	LC-MS, Mass spectrometry analysis of acetylated nucleosome, NCP, PBAF	BAF and PBAF are mammalian SWI/SNF family chromatin remodeling complexes that possess multiple histone/DNA-binding subunits and create nucleosome-depleted/free regions for transcription activation. Despite previous structural studies and recent advance of SWI/SNF family complexes, it remains incompletely understood how PBAF-nucleosome complex is organized. Here we determined structure of 13-subunit human PBAF in complex with acetylated nucleosome in ADP-BeF3-bound state. Four PBAF-specific subunits work together with nine BAF/PBAF-shared subunits to generate PBAF-specific modular organization, distinct from that of BAF at various regions. PBAF-nucleosome structure reveals six histone-binding domains and four DNA-binding domains/modules, the majority of which directly bind histone/DNA. This multivalent nucleosome-binding pattern, not observed in previous studies, suggests that PBAF may integrate comprehensive chromatin information to target genomic loci for function. Our study reveals molecular organization of subunits and histone/DNA-binding domains/modules in PBAF-nucleosome complex and provides structural insights into PBAF-mediated nucleosome association complimentary to the recently reported PBAF-nucleosome structure.
PXD032717	36496412	Lyve-1 deficiency enhances the hepatic immune microenvironment entailing altered susceptibility to melanoma liver metastasis. 	Lyve-1 deficiency plasma proteomics	LYVE-1, hepatic immune microenvironment, liver homeostasis, liver metastasis, plasma	BACKGROUND: Hyaluronan receptor LYVE-1 is expressed by liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSEC), lymphatic endothelial cells and specialized macrophages. Besides binding to hyaluronan, LYVE-1 can mediate adhesion of leukocytes and cancer cells to endothelial cells. Here, we assessed the impact of LYVE-1 on physiological liver functions and metastasis. METHODS: Mice with deficiency of Lyve-1 (Lyve-1-KO) were analyzed using histology, immunofluorescence, microarray analysis, plasma proteomics and flow cytometry. Liver metastasis was studied by intrasplenic/intravenous injection of melanoma (B16F10 luc2, WT31) or colorectal carcinoma (MC38). RESULTS: Hepatic architecture, liver size, endothelial differentiation and angiocrine functions were unaltered in Lyve-1-KO. Hyaluronan plasma levels were significantly increased in Lyve-1-KO. Besides, plasma proteomics revealed increased carbonic anhydrase-2 and decreased FXIIIA. Furthermore, gene expression analysis of LSEC indicated regulation of immunological pathways. Therefore, liver metastasis of highly and weakly immunogenic tumors, i.e. melanoma and colorectal carcinoma (CRC), was analyzed. Hepatic metastasis of B16F10 luc2 and WT31 melanoma cells, but not MC38 CRC cells, was significantly reduced in Lyve-1-KO mice. In vivo retention assays with B16F10 luc2 cells were unaltered between Lyve-1-KO and control mice. However, in tumor-free Lyve-1-KO livers numbers of hepatic CD4(+), CD8(+) and regulatory T cells were increased. In addition, iron deposition was found in F4/80(+) liver macrophages known to exert pro-inflammatory effects. CONCLUSION: Lyve-1 deficiency controlled hepatic metastasis in a tumor cell-specific manner leading to reduced growth of hepatic metastases of melanoma, but not CRC. Anti-tumorigenic effects are likely due to enhancement of the premetastatic hepatic immune microenvironment influencing early liver metastasis formation.
PXD037312	36496439	CRL2(ZER1/ZYG11B) recognizes small N-terminal residues for degradation. 	CRL2ZER1/ZYG11B recognizes small N-terminal residues for degradation	CRL2ZER1/ZYG11B, N-terminal acetylation, Nt-Ser	N-degron pathway plays an important role in the protein quality control and maintenance of cellular protein homeostasis. ZER1 and ZYG11B, the substrate receptors of the Cullin 2-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL2), recognize N-terminal (Nt) glycine degrons and participate in the Nt-myristoylation quality control through the Gly/N-degron pathway. Here we show that ZER1 and ZYG11B can also recognize small Nt-residues other than glycine. Specifically, ZER1 binds better to Nt-Ser, -Ala, -Thr and -Cys than to -Gly, while ZYG11B prefers Nt-Gly but also has the capacity to recognize Nt-Ser, -Ala and -Cys in vitro. We found that Nt-Ser, -Ala and -Cys undergo Nt-acetylation catalyzed by Nt-acetyltransferase (NAT), thereby shielding them from recognition by ZER1/ZYG11B in cells. Instead, ZER1/ZYG11B readily targets a selection of small Nt-residues lacking Nt-acetylation for degradation in NAT-deficient cells, implicating its role in the Nt-acetylation quality control. Furthermore, we present the crystal structures of ZER1 and ZYG11B bound to various small Nt-residues and uncover the molecular mechanism of non-acetylated substrate recognition by ZER1 and ZYG11B.
PXD038516	36497184	Oxidative Stress and Extracellular Matrix Remodeling Are Signature Pathways of Extracellular Vesicles Released upon Morphine Exposure on Human Brain Microvascular Endothelial Cells. 	Oxidative Stress and Extracellular Matrix Remodeling Are  Signature Pathways of Extracellular Vesicles Released upon Morphine Exposure on Human Brain Microvascular  Endothelial Cells	BBB, CNS, DIA-MS, HIF-1, cell adhesion, endothelial cells, extracellular matrix remodeling, extracellular vesicles, morphine, oxidative stress	Morphine, a commonly used antinociceptive drug in hospitals, is known to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) by first passing through brain endothelial cells. Despite its pain-relieving effect, morphine also has detrimental effects, such as the potential induction of redox imbalance in the brain. However, there is still insufficient evidence of these effects on the brain, particularly on the brain endothelial cells and the extracellular vesicles that they naturally release. Indeed, extracellular vesicles (EVs) are nanosized bioparticles produced by almost all cell types and are currently thought to reflect the physiological state of their parent cells. These vesicles have emerged as a promising source of biomarkers by indicating the functional or dysfunctional state of their parent cells and, thus, allowing a better understanding of the biological processes involved in an adverse state. However, there is very little information on the morphine effect on human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs), and even less on their released EVs. Therefore, the current study aimed at unraveling the detrimental mechanisms of morphine exposure (at 1, 10, 25, 50 and 100 microM) for 24 h on human brain microvascular endothelial cells as well as on their associated EVs. Isolation of EVs was carried out using an affinity-based method. Several orthogonal techniques (NTA, western blotting and proteomics analysis) were used to validate the EVs enrichment, quality and concentration. Data-independent mass spectrometry (DIA-MS)-based proteomics was applied in order to analyze the proteome modulations induced by morphine on HBMECs and EVs. We were able to quantify almost 5500 proteins in HBMECs and 1500 proteins in EVs, of which 256 and 148, respectively, were found to be differentially expressed in at least one condition. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that the "cell adhesion and extracellular matrix remodeling" process and the "HIF1 pathway", a pathway related to oxidative stress responses, were significantly modulated upon morphine exposure in HBMECs and EVs. Altogether, the combination of proteomics and bioinformatics findings highlighted shared pathways between HBMECs exposed to morphine and their released EVs. These results put forward molecular signatures of morphine-induced toxicity in HBMECs that were also carried by EVs. Therefore, EVs could potentially be regarded as a useful tool to investigate brain endothelial cells dysfunction, and to a different extent, the BBB dysfunction in patient circulation using these "signature pathways".
PXD037858	36499482	A Dual Role for FADD in Human Precursor T-Cell Neoplasms. 	A dual role for FADD in human T-cell lymphoblastic neo-plasms	DIA, FADD, T-LBL	A reduction in FADD levels has been reported in precursor T-cell neoplasms and other tumor types. Such reduction would impact on the ability of tumor cells to undergo apoptosis and has been associated with poor clinical outcomes. However, FADD is also known to participate in non-apoptotic functions, but these mechanisms are not well-understood. Linking FADD expression to the severity of precursor T-cell neoplasms could indicate its use as a prognostic marker and may open new avenues for targeted therapeutic strategies. Using transcriptomic and clinical data from patients with precursor T-cell neoplasms, complemented by in vitro analysis of cellular functions and by high-throughput interactomics, our results allow us to propose a dual role for FADD in precursor T-cell neoplasms, whereby resisting cell death and chemotherapy would be a canonical consequence of FADD deficiency in these tumors, whereas deregulation of the cellular metabolism would be a relevant non-canonical function in patients expressing FADD. These results reveal that evaluation of FADD expression in precursor T-cell neoplasms may aid in the understanding of the biological processes that are affected in the tumor cells. The altered biological processes can be of different natures depending on the availability of FADD influencing its ability to exert its canonical or non-canonical functions. Accordingly, specific therapeutic interventions would be needed in each case.
PXD034222	36499490	Promitotic Action of Oenothera biennis on Senescent Human Dermal Fibroblasts. 	Oenothera effect on senescent NDHF	data independent mass spectrometry, fibroblasts, hydrophilic extract of Oenothera biennis cell cultures, senescence	Accumulation of senescent dermal fibroblasts drives skin aging. The reactivation of proliferation is one strategy to modulate cell senescence. Recently, we reported the exact chemical composition of the hydrophilic extract of Oenothera biennis cell cultures (ObHEx) and we showed its skin anti-aging properties. The aim of this work is to assess its biological effect specifically on cell senescence. ObHEx action has been evaluated on normal human dermal fibroblasts subjected to stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS) through an ultra-deep proteomic analysis, leading to the most global senescence-associated proteome so far. Mass spectrometry data show that the treatment with ObHEx re-establishes levels of crucial mitotic proteins, strongly downregulated in senescent cells. To validate our proteomics findings, we proved that ObHEx can, in part, restore the activity of 'senescence-associated-beta-galactosidase', the most common hallmark of senescent cells. Furthermore, to assess if the upregulation of mitotic protein levels translates into a cell cycle re-entry, FACS experiments have been carried out, demonstrating a small but significative reactivation of senescent cell proliferation by ObHEx. In conclusion, the deep senescence-associated global proteome profiling published here provides a panel of hundreds of proteins deregulated by SIPS that can be used by the community to further understand senescence and the effect of new potential modulators. Moreover, proteomics analysis pointed to a specific promitotic effect of ObHEx on senescent cells. Thus, we suggest ObHEx as a powerful adjuvant against senescence associated with skin aging.
PXD028816	36499675	Fluoxetine Enhances Synaptic Vesicle Trafficking and Energy Metabolism in the Hippocampus of Socially Isolated Rats. 	Fluoxetine triggers synaptic vesicle exo/endocytosis, mitochondrial energy metabolism and dynamics in hippocampus of socially isolated rats	Hippocampus, LC-MS, rat	Chronic social isolation (CSIS)-induced alternation in synaptic and mitochondrial function of specific brain regions is associated with major depressive disorder (MDD). Despite the wide number of available medications, treating MDD remains an important challenge. Although fluoxetine (Flx) is the most frequently prescribed antidepressant, its mode of action is still unknown. To delineate affected molecular pathways of depressive-like behavior and identify potential targets upon Flx treatment, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis of hippocampal purified synaptic terminals (synaptosomes) of rats exposed to six weeks of CSIS, an animal model of depression, and/or followed by Flx treatment (lasting three weeks of six-week CSIS) to explore synaptic protein profile changes. Results showed that Flx in controls mainly induced decreased expression of proteins involved in energy metabolism and the redox system. CSIS led to increased expression of proteins that mainly participate in Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (Camk2)-related neurotransmission, vesicle transport, and ubiquitination. Flx treatment of CSIS rats predominantly increased expression of proteins involved in synaptic vesicle trafficking (exocytosis and endocytosis), and energy metabolism (glycolytic and mitochondrial respiration). Overall, these Flx-regulated changes in synaptic and mitochondrial proteins of CSIS rats might be critical targets for new therapeutic development for the treatment of MDD.
PXD037506	36500247	High Throughput Isolation and Data Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry (DIA-MS) of Urinary Extracellular Vesicles to Improve Prostate Cancer Diagnosis. 	Proteomic Profile of Urinary Extracellular Vesicles Unravelled Biomarkers for Prostate Cancer Recognition	Biomarkers, Extracellular Vesicles, Prostate Cancer	Proteomic profiling of extracellular vesicles (EVs) represents a promising approach for early detection and therapeutic monitoring of diseases such as cancer. The focus of this study was to apply robust EV isolation and subsequent data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) for urinary EV proteomics of prostate cancer and prostate inflammation patients. Urinary EVs were isolated by functionalized magnetic beads through chemical affinity on an automatic station, and EV proteins were analyzed by integrating three library-base analyses (Direct-DIA, GPF-DIA, and Fractionated DDA-base DIA) to improve the coverage and quantitation. We assessed the levels of urinary EV-associated proteins based on 40 samples consisting of 20 cases and 20 controls, where 18 EV proteins were identified to be differentiated in prostate cancer outcome, of which three (i.e., SERPINA3, LRG1, and SCGB3A1) were shown to be consistently upregulated. We also observed 6 out of the 18 (33%) EV proteins that had been developed as drug targets, while some of them showed protein-protein interactions. Moreover, the potential mechanistic pathways of 18 significantly different EV proteins were enriched in metabolic, immune, and inflammatory activities. These results showed consistency in an independent cohort with 20 participants. Using a random forest algorithm for classification assessment, including the identified EV proteins, we found that SERPINA3, LRG1, or SCGB3A1 add predictable value in addition to age, prostate size, body mass index (BMI), and prostate-specific antigen (PSA). In summary, the current study demonstrates a translational workflow to identify EV proteins as molecular markers to improve the clinical diagnosis of prostate cancer.
PXD037354	36504793	Rcs phosphorelay affects the sensitivity of Escherichia coli to plantaricin BM-1 by regulating biofilm formation. 	Proteomics of E. coli JW5917 and E. coli K12(2)	E. coli JW5917, E. coli K12	Introduction: Plantaricin BM-1 is a class IIa bacteriocin produced by Lactobacillus plantarum BM-1 that exerts significant antibacterial activity against many foodborne bacteria. Studies have shown that class IIa bacteriocins inhibit Gram-positive bacteria via the mannose phosphotransferase system; however, their mechanism of action against Gram-negative bacteria remains unknown. In this study, we explored the mechanism through which the Rcs phosphorelay affects the sensitivity of Escherichia coli K12 cells to plantaricin BM-1. Methods and Results: The minimum inhibitory concentrations of plantaricin BM-1 against E. coli K12, E. coli JW5917 (rcsC mutant), E. coli JW2204 (rcsD mutant), and E. coli JW2205 (rcsB mutant) were 1.25, 0.59, 1.31, and 1.22 mg/ml, respectively. Growth curves showed that E. coli JW5917 sensitivity to plantaricin BM-1 increased to the same level as that of E. coli K12 after complementation. Meanwhile, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy revealed that, under the action of plantaricin BM-1, the appearance of E. coli JW5917 cells did not significantly differ from that of E. coli K12 cells; however, cell contents were significantly reduced and plasmolysis and shrinkage were observed at both ends. Crystal violet staining and laser scanning confocal microscopy showed that biofilm formation was significantly reduced after rcsC mutation, while proteomic analysis identified 382 upregulated and 260 downregulated proteins in E. coli JW5917. In particular, rcsC mutation was found to affect the expression of proteins related to biofilm formation, with growth curve assays showing that the deletion of these proteins increased E. coli sensitivity to plantaricin BM-1. Discussion: Consequently, we speculated that the Rcs phosphorelay may regulate the sensitivity of E. coli to plantaricin BM-1 by affecting biofilm formation. This finding of class IIa bacteriocin against Gram-negative bacteria mechanism provides new insights.
PXD035303	36504839	Temporal extracellular vesicle protein changes following intraarticular treatment with integrin alpha10beta1-selected mesenchymal stem cells in equine osteoarthritis. 	Global Extracellular Vesicle Proteome Changes Across Time Upon Intraarticular Treatment of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells in an In Vivo model of Equine Osteoarthritis	Osteoarthritis, extracellular vesicles, horse, synovial fluid	Introduction: Equine osteoarthritis (OA) is a heterogeneous, degenerative disease of the musculoskeletal system with multifactorial causation, characterized by a joint metabolic imbalance. Extracellular vesicles are nanoparticles involved in intracellular communication. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy is a form of regenerative medicine that utilizes their properties to repair damaged tissues. Despite its wide use in veterinary practice, the exact mechanism of action of MSCs is not fully understood. The aim of this study was to determine the synovial fluid extracellular vesicle protein cargo following integrin alpha10beta1-selected mesenchymal stem cell (integrin alpha10-MSC) treatment in an experimental model of equine osteoarthritis with longitudinal sampling. Methods: Adipose tissue derived, integrin alpha10-MSCs were injected intraarticularly in six horses 18 days after experimental induction of OA. Synovial fluid samples were collected at day 0, 18, 21, 28, 35, and 70. Synovial fluid was processed and extracellular vesicles were isolated and characterized. Extracellular vesicle cargo was then analyzed using data independent acquisition mass spectrometry proteomics. Results: A total of 442 proteins were identified across all samples, with 48 proteins differentially expressed (FDR <= 0.05) between sham-operated control joint without MSC treatment and OA joint treated with MSCs. The most significant pathways following functional enrichment analysis of the differentially abundant protein dataset were serine endopeptidase activity (p = 0.023), complement activation (classical pathway) (p = 0.023), and collagen containing extracellular matrix (p = 0.034). Due to the lack of an OA group without MSC treatment, findings cannot be directly correlated to only MSCs. Discussion: To date this is the first study to quantify the global extracellular vesicle proteome in synovial fluid following MSC treatment of osteoarthritis. Changes in the proteome of the synovial fluid-derived EVs following MSC injection suggest EVs may play a role in mediating the effect of cell therapy through altered joint homeostasis. This is an important step toward understanding the potential therapeutic mechanisms of MSC therapy, ultimately enabling the improvement of therapeutic efficacy.
PXD027535	36505781	Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry identification of extracellular vesicle biomarkers for gastric adenocarcinoma. 	Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry Identification of Serum-derived Extracellular Vesicle Proteomics for Gastric Adenocarcinoma	extracellular vesicles, gastric adenocarcinoma, serum	Early diagnosis of gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) can effectively prevent the progression of the disease and significantly improve patient survival. Currently, protein markers in clinical practice barely meet patient needs; it is therefore imperative to develop new diagnostic biomarkers with high sensitivity and specificity. In this study, we extracted extracellular vesicles (EV) from the sera of 33 patients with GAC and 19 healthy controls, then applied data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry to measure protein expression profiles. Differential protein expression analysis identified 23 proteins showing expression patterns across different cancer stages, from which 15 proteins were selected as candidate biomarkers for GAC diagnosis. From this subset of 15 proteins, up to 6 proteins were iteratively selected as features and logistic regression was used to distinguish patients from healthy controls. Furthermore, serum-derived EV from a new cohort of 12 patients with gastric cancer and 18 healthy controls were quantified using the same method. A classification panel consisting of GSN, HP, ORM1, PIGR, and TFRC showed the best performance, with a sensitivity and negative predictive value (NPV) of 0.83 and 0.82. The area under curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) is 0.80. Finally, to facilitate the diagnosis of advanced stage GAC, we identified a 3-protein panel consisting of LYZ, SAA1, and F12 that showed reasonably good performance with an AUC of 0.83 in the validation dataset. In conclusion, we identified new protein biomarker panels from serum EVs for early diagnosis of gastric cancer that worth further validation.
PXD027870	36506101	Discovering new peripheral plasma biomarkers to identify cognitive decline in type 2 diabetes. 	Discovering new peripheral plasma biomarkers to identify cognitive decline in type 2 diabetes	Alzheimers disease, CIP2A, Type 2 diabetes, diagnostic biomarkers, mild cognitive impairment	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is an independent risk factor of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and thus identifying who among the increasing T2DM populations may develop into AD is important for early intervention. By using TMT-labeling coupled high-throughput mass spectrometry, we conducted a comprehensive plasma proteomic analysis in none-T2DM people (Ctrl, n = 30), and the age-/sex-matched T2DM patients with mild cognitive impairment (T2DM-MCI, n = 30) or T2DM without MCI (T2DM-nMCI, n = 25). The candidate biomarkers identified by proteomics and bioinformatics analyses were verified by ELISA, and their diagnostic capabilities were evaluated with machine learning. A total of 53 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in T2DM-MCI compared with T2DM-nMCI patients. These DEPs were significantly enriched in multiple biological processes, such as amyloid neuropathies, CNS disorders, and metabolic acidosis. Among the DEPs, alpha-1-antitrypsin (SERPINA1), major viral protein (PRNP), and valosin-containing protein (VCP) showed strong correlation with AD high-risk genes APP, MAPT, APOE, PSEN1, and PSEN2. Also, the levels of PP2A cancer inhibitor (CIP2A), PRNP, corticotropin-releasing factor-binding protein (CRHBP) were significantly increased, while the level of VCP was decreased in T2DM-MCI patients compared with that of the T2DM-nMCI, and these changes were correlated with the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score. Further machine learning data showed that increases in PRNP, CRHBP, VCP, and rGSK-3beta(T/S9) (ratio of total to serine-9-phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3beta) had the greatest power to identify mild cognitive decline in T2DM patients.
PXD038145	36506545	Identification of pharmacokinetic markers for safflower injection using a combination of system pharmacology, multicomponent pharmacokinetics, and quantitative proteomics study. 	Identification of pharmacokinetic markers for safflower injection using a combination of system pharmacology, multicomponent pharmacokinetics, and quantitative proteomics study	H2O2 induced injury, H9c2, Rat cardiomyocyte, oxidative stress	Safflower injection (SI), a water-extract preparation from safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.), has been widely used for the treatment of cardio-cerebrovascular diseases. This work aims to develop an approach for identifying PK markers of cardiovascular herbal medicines using SI as a case study. Firstly, qualitative and quantitative analyses were performed to reveal ingredients of the preparation via HPLC-MS. Subsequently, multiple PK ingredients and integrated PK investigations were carried out to ascertain ingredients with favorable PK properties (e.g., easily detected at conventional PK time points and high system exposure) for the whole preparation. Next, ingredients against cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) in the preparation were predicted with target fishing and system pharmacology studies. Finally, ingredients with favorable PK properties, satisfactory PK representativeness for the preparation, and high relevance to CVDs were considered as potential PK markers. Their therapeutic effect was further evaluated using the H2O2-induced H9c2 cardiomyocyte-injured model and a proteomics study to identify objective PK markers. As results, it disclosed that SI mainly contains 11 ingredients. Among them, five ingredients, namely, hydroxysafflor yellow A (HSYA), syringin (SYR), p-coumaric acid (p-CA), scutellarin (SCU), and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (p-HBA), showed favorable PK properties. HSYA, SYR, and rutin (RU) were predicted to show high relevance to CVDs and screened as potential PK markers. However, only HSYA and SYR were confirmed as therapeutic ingredients against CVDs. Combined with these findings, only HSYA demonstrated satisfactory representativeness on PK properties and therapeutic effects of multiple ingredients of the preparation, thereby indicating that HSYA is a potential PK marker for the SI. The results of this study can provide a reference for the characterization of PK markers for traditional Chinese medicines.
PXD036970	36507225	A multi-omics based anti-inflammatory immune signature characterizes long COVID-19 syndrome. 	Multi-omics provide evidence for an anti-inflammatory immune signature and metabolic alterations in patients with Long COVID Syndrome - an exploratory study (supernatants of M1 and M2-like macrophages)	Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Covid-19, Long Covid Syndrome, Macrophage Polarization, Metabolomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2	To investigate long COVID-19 syndrome (LCS) pathophysiology, we performed an exploratory study with blood plasma derived from three groups: 1) healthy vaccinated individuals without SARS-CoV-2 exposure; 2) asymptomatic recovered patients at least three months after SARS-CoV-2 infection and; 3) symptomatic patients at least 3 months after SARS-CoV-2 infection with chronic fatigue syndrome or similar symptoms, here designated as patients with long COVID-19 syndrome (LCS). Multiplex cytokine profiling indicated slightly elevated pro-inflammatory cytokine levels in recovered individuals in contrast to patients with LCS. Plasma proteomics demonstrated low levels of acute phase proteins and macrophage-derived secreted proteins in LCS. High levels of anti-inflammatory oxylipins including omega-3 fatty acids in LCS were detected by eicosadomics, whereas targeted metabolic profiling indicated high levels of anti-inflammatory osmolytes taurine and hypaphorine, but low amino acid and triglyceride levels and deregulated acylcarnitines. A model considering alternatively polarized macrophages as a major contributor to these molecular alterations is presented.
PXD025897	36507396	Does filter-aided sample preparation provide sufficient method linearity for quantitative plant shotgun proteomics? 	Validation of filter aided sample preparation (FASP) approach for quantitative plant shotgun proteomics	Detergent-assisted proteolysis, LC-MS, filter aided sample preparation (FASP), label-free quantification, phenol extraction, plant proteomics, shotgun proteomics, sodium dodecyl sulfate	Due to its outstanding throughput and analytical resolution, gel-free LC-based shotgun proteomics represents the gold standard of proteome analysis. Thereby, the efficiency of sample preparation dramatically affects the correctness and reliability of protein quantification. Thus, the steps of protein isolation, solubilization, and proteolysis represent the principal bottleneck of shotgun proteomics. The desired performance of the sample preparation protocols can be achieved by the application of detergents. However, these compounds ultimately compromise reverse-phase chromatographic separation and disrupt electrospray ionization. Filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) represents an elegant approach to overcome these limitations. Although this method is comprehensively validated for cell proteomics, its applicability to plants and compatibility with plant-specific protein isolation protocols remain to be confirmed. Thereby, the most important gap is the absence of the data on the linearity of underlying protein quantification methods for plant matrices. To fill this gap, we address here the potential of FASP in combination with two protein isolation protocols for quantitative analysis of pea (Pisum sativum) seed and Arabidopsis thaliana leaf proteomes by the shotgun approach. For this aim, in comprehensive spiking experiments with bovine serum albumin (BSA), we evaluated the linear dynamic range (LDR) of protein quantification in the presence of plant matrices. Furthermore, we addressed the interference of two different plant matrices in quantitative experiments, accomplished with two alternative sample preparation workflows in comparison to conventional FASP-based digestion of cell lysates, considered here as a reference. The spiking experiments revealed high sensitivities (LODs of up to 4 fmol) for spiked BSA and LDRs of at least 0.6 x 10(2). Thereby, phenol extraction yielded slightly better recoveries, whereas the detergent-based method showed better linearity. Thus, our results indicate the very good applicability of FASP to quantitative plant proteomics with only limited impact of the protein isolation technique on the method's overall performance.
PXD037608	36507906	Proteomics Analysis of Plasma-Derived Exosomes Unveils the Aberrant Complement and Coagulation Cascades in Dermatomyositis/Polymyositis. 	Proteomics analysis of plasma-derived exosomes unveils the aberrant complement and coagulation cascades in dermatomyositis/polymyositis	Complement and coagulation cascades., Dermatomyositis, Exosomes, Polymyositis	Dermatomyositis and polymyositis (DM/PM) are systemic autoimmune diseases characterized by proximal muscle weakness. The underlying pathogenetic mechanism of this disease remains under-researched. Here, using proteomics analysis, a great overlap of differentially expressed plasma exosomal proteins involved in the complement and coagulation cascade pathway, including FGA, FGB, FGG, C1QB, C1QC, and VWF, was identified in DM/PM patients versus healthy controls. Correlation analysis showed that the expression levels of complement-associated proteins (C1QB and C1QC) correlated positively with CRP, ESR, and platelet count. ROC curve analysis demonstrated that complement and coagulation cascade-associated proteins could be strong predictors for DM/PM. In addition, we also identified several other proteins that were differentially expressed in DM and PM. The selected candidate proteins were further validated by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Together, our findings indicate that these exosome-derived proteins might participate in microvascular damage in DM/PM through the activation of the complement and coagulation cascade pathway and function as biomarkers for the clinical diagnosis of DM/PM.
PXD037839	36508259	MetaLab-MAG: A Metaproteomic Data Analysis Platform for Genome-Level Characterization of Microbiomes from the Metagenome-Assembled Genomes Database. 	single bacterial species LC-MS/MS	single bacterial species	The studies of microbial communities have drawn increased attention in various research fields such as agriculture, environment, and human health. Recently, metaproteomics has become a powerful tool to interpret the roles of the community members by investigating the expressed proteins of the microbes. However, analyzing the metaproteomic data sets at genome resolution is still challenging because of the lack of efficient bioinformatics tools. Here we develop MetaLab-MAG, a specially designed tool for the characterization of microbiomes from metagenome-assembled genomes databases. MetaLab-MAG was evaluated by analyzing various human gut microbiota data sets and performed comparably or better than searching the gene catalog protein database directly. MetaLab-MAG can quantify the genome-level microbiota compositions and supports both label-free and isobaric labeling-based quantification strategies. MetaLab-MAG removes the obstacles of metaproteomic data analysis and provides the researchers with in-depth and comprehensive information from the microbiomes.
PXD029338	36508875	Proteomic profiling of canine fibrosarcoma and adjacent peritumoral tissue. 	Proteomic profiling of canine fibrosarcomas and adjacent unaffected peritumoral tissue using laser-capture microdissected FFPE tissue	Canis Lupus familiaris, DIA, abel-free quantification, adipose and connective tissue, fibrosarcoma and matched adjacent peritumoral skeletal muscle, shotgun proteomics	Fibrosarcoma (FSA) are rare soft tissue tumors that display aggressive local behavior and invasive growth leading to high rates of tumor recurrence. While the low incidence in humans hampers detailed understanding of the disease, FSA are frequent in dogs and present potential models for the human condition. However, a lack of in-depth molecular characterization of FSA and unaffected peritumoral tissue (PTT) in both species impedes the translational potential of dogs. To address this shortcoming, we characterized canine FSA and matched skeletal muscle, adipose and connective tissue using laser-capture microdissection (LCM) and LC-MS/MS in 30 formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) specimens. Principal component analysis of 3'530 different proteins detected across all samples clearly separates the four tissues, with several targets strongly differentiating tumor from all three PTTs. 25 proteins were exclusively found in tumor tissue in >=80% of cases. Among these, CD68 (a macrophage marker), Optineurin (OPTN), Nuclear receptor coactivator 5 (NCOA5), RAP1GDS1 (Rap1 GTPase-GDP dissociation stimulator 1) and Stromal cell derived factor 2 like 1 (SDF2L1) were present in >=90% of FSA. Protein expression across all FSA was highly homogeneous and characterized by MYC and TP53 signaling, hyperactive EIF2 and immune-related changes as well as strongly decreased oxidative phosphorylation and oxidative lipid metabolism. Finally, we demonstrate significant molecular homology between canine FSA and human soft-tissue sarcomas, emphasizing the relevance of studying canine FSA as a model for human FSA. In conclusion, we provide the first detailed overview of proteomic changes in FSA and surrounding PTT with relevance for the human disease.
PXD029265	36509450	Dietary Sugar Shifts Mitochondrial Metabolism and Small RNA Biogenesis in Sperm. 	Dietary sugar shifts mitochondrial metabolism and small RNA biogenesis in sperm 	Drosophila melanogaster, seminal vesicle, sperm	Aims: Increasing concentrations of dietary sugar results in a linear accumulation of triglycerides in male Drosophila, while inducing a U-shaped obesity response in their offspring. Here, using a combination of proteomics and small RNA (sRNA) sequencing, we aimed at understanding the molecular underpinning in sperm for such plasticity. Results: Proteomic analysis of seminal vesicles revealed that increasing concentrations of dietary sugar resulted in a bell-shaped induction of proteins involved in metabolic/redox regulation. Using stains and in vivo redox reporter flies, this pattern could be explained by changes in sperm production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), more exactly mitochondria-derived H2O2. By quenching ROS with the antioxidant N-acetyl cysteine and performing sRNA-seq on sperm, we found that sperm miRNA is increased in response to ROS. Moreover, we found sperm mitosRNA to be increased in high-sugar diet conditions (independent of ROS). Reanalyzing our previously published data revealed a similar global upregulation of human sperm mitosRNA in response to a high-sugar diet, suggesting evolutionary conserved mechanisms. Innovation: This work highlights a fast response to dietary sugar in mitochondria-produced H2O2 in Drosophila sperm and identifies redox-sensitive miRNA downstream of this event. Conclusions: Our data support a model where changes in the sperm mitochondria in response to dietary sugar are the primary event, and changes in redox homoeostasis are secondary to mitochondrial ROS production. These data provide multiple candidates for paternal intergenerational metabolic responses as well as potential biomarkers for human male fertility. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 38, 1167-1183.
PXD030905	36509750	Idarubicin combats abiraterone and enzalutamide resistance in prostate cells via targeting XPA protein. 	Proteome profile dataset of IDA treatment	IDA	Although second-generation therapies like abiraterone (ABI) and enzalutamide (ENZ) benefit patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), drug resistance frequently occurs, eventually resulting in therapy failure. In this study, we used two libraries, FDA-approved drug library and CRISP/Cas9 knockout (GeCKO) library to screen for drugs that overcome treatment resistance and to identify the potential drug-resistant genes involved in treatment resistance. Our screening results showed that the DNA-damaging agent idarubicin (IDA) overcame abiraterone and enzalutamide resistance in prostate cancer cells. IDA treatment inhibited the DNA repair protein XPA expression in a transcription-independent manner. Consistently, XPA knockout sensitized prostate cancer cells to abiraterone and enzalutamide treatment. In conclusion, IDA combats abiraterone and enzalutamide resistance by reducing XPA protein level in prostate cancer.
PXD033953	36509894	A key role of the WEE1-CDK1 axis in mediating TKI-therapy resistance in FLT3-ITD positive acute myeloid leukemia patients. 	A network-based approach reveals a novel mechanism of resistance to TKI-therapy in AML	AML, Ba/F3 cells, FLT3, TKI, acute myeloid leukemia, midostaurin, phosphoproteomics, quizartinib, tyrosine kinase inhibitors	The insertion site of the internal tandem duplications (ITDs) in the FLT3 gene affects the sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) therapy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Patients with the ITD in the tyrosine kinase domain lack effective therapeutic options. Here, to identify genotype-driven strategies increasing the TKI therapy efficacy, we developed SignalingProfiler, a strategy supporting the integration of high-sensitive mass spectrometry-based (phospho)proteomics, RNA sequencing datasets with literature-derived signaling networks. The approach generated FLT3-ITD genotype-specific predictive models and revealed a conserved role of the WEE1-CDK1 axis in TKIs resistance. Remarkably, pharmacological inhibition of the WEE1 kinase synergizes and strengthens the pro-apoptotic effect of TKIs therapy in cell lines and patient-derived primary blasts. Finally, we propose a new molecular mechanism of TKIs resistance in AML and suggest the combination of WEE1 inhibitor and TKI as a therapeutic option to improve patients clinical outcome.
PXD035006	36511424	ZSWIM1 Promotes the Proliferation and Metastasis of Lung Adenocarcinoma Cells through the STK38/MEKK2/ERK1/2 Axis. 	ZSWIM1 promotes the proliferation and metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma cells through the STK38/MEKK2/ERK1/2 axis	ERK1/2, Lung adenocarcinoma, Migration, Proliferation, STK38, ZSWIM1	Investigating the functions of the proteins with no or less functional annotations is an important goal of the HPP (Human Proteome Project) Grand Project. In this study, we investigated the function of such a protein, ZSWIM1 (C20orf162), its gene located on chromosome 20. Its expression is upregulated in lung adenocarcinoma compared with the adjacent normal tissues and negatively correlated with the overall survival. Overexpressing ZSWIM1 markedly promotes the proliferation, migration, invasion as well as epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in lung adenocarcinoma cells, while knocking down ZSWIM1 functions oppositely. The interactome of ZSWIM1 was identified by immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, and we verified the interaction of ZSWIM1 with the potential partner, STK38. ZSWIM1 antagonized the function of STK38. Mechanically, ZSWIM1 promoted the activation of MEKK2/ERK1/2 pathway through interacting with STK38, leading to the release of MEKK2. Taken together, ZSWIM1 can be annotated as an oncogene in lung adenocarcinoma, and the STK38/MEKK2/ERK1/2 axis mediates its promoting role in lung adenocarcinoma.
PXD029715	36511516	Mitoquinone mesylate attenuates pathological features of lean and obese allergic asthma in mice. 	Targeting mitochondrial reactive oxygen species alleviates allergic airway disease in a mouse model of obese allergic asthma	MitoQuinone, Obesity, airway oxidome, allergic asthma, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mROS), tissue eosinophilia, unfolded protein response (UPR).	Obesity is associated with severe, difficult-to-control asthma, and increased airway oxidative stress. Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mROS) are an important source of oxidative stress in asthma, leading us to hypothesize that targeting mROS in obese allergic asthma might be an effective treatment. Using a mouse model of house dust mite (HDM)-induced allergic airway disease in mice fed a low- (LFD) or high-fat diet (HFD), and the mitochondrial antioxidant MitoQuinone (MitoQ), we investigated the effects of obesity and ROS on HDM-induced airway inflammation, remodeling, and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR). Obese allergic mice showed increased lung tissue eotaxin, airway tissue eosinophilia, and AHR compared with lean allergic mice. MitoQ reduced airway inflammation, remodeling, and hyperreactivity in both lean and obese allergic mice, and tissue eosinophilia in obese-allergic mice. Similar effects were observed with decyl triphosphonium (dTPP(+)), the hydrophobic cationic moiety of MitoQ lacking ubiquinone. HDM-induced oxidative sulfenylation of proteins was increased particularly in HFD mice. Although only MitoQ reduced sulfenylation of proteins involved in protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), ER stress was attenuated by both MitoQ and dTPP(+) suggesting the anti-allergic effects of MitoQ are mediated in part by effects of its hydrophobic dTPP(+) moiety reducing ER stress. In summary, oxidative signaling is an important mediator of allergic airway disease. MitoQ, likely through reducing protein oxidation and affecting the UPR pathway, might be effective for the treatment of asthma and specific features of obese asthma.
PXD037050	36512753	Structural Analysis of Phosphorylation Proteoforms in a Dynamic Heterogeneous System Using Flash Oxidation Coupled In-Line with Ion Exchange Chromatography. 	Structural Analysis of Phosphorylation Proteoforms in a Dynamic Heterogeneous System Using Flash Oxidation Coupled In-Line with Ion Exchange Chromatography	Flash Oxidation, LC-FOX, Ovalbumin, PhosphoProteoforms	Protein posttranslational modifications (PTMs) are key modulators of protein structure and function that often change in a dynamic fashion in response to cellular stimuli. Dynamic PTMs are very challenging to structurally characterize using modern techniques, including covalent labeling methods, due to the presence of multiple proteoforms and conformers together in solution. We have coupled an ion exchange high-performance liquid chromatography separation with a flash oxidation system [ion exchange chromatography liquid chromatography-flash oxidation (IEX LC-FOX)] to successfully elucidate structural changes among three phosphoproteoforms of ovalbumin (OVA) during dephosphorylation with alkaline phosphatase. Real-time dosimetry indicates no difference in the effective radical dose between peaks or across the peak, demonstrating both the lack of scavenging of the NaCl gradient and the lack of a concentration effect on radical dose between peaks of different intensities. The use of IEX LC-FOX allows us to structurally probe into each phosphoproteoform as it elutes from the column, capturing structural data before the dynamics of the system to reintroduce heterogeneity. We found significant differences in the residue-level oxidation between the hydroxyl radical footprint of nonphosphorylated, monophosphorylated, and diphosphorylated OVA. Not only were our data consistent with the previously reported stabilization of OVA structure by phosphorylation, but local structural changes were also consistent with the measured order of dephosphorylation of Ser344 being removed first. These results demonstrate the utility of IEX LC-FOX for measuring the structural effects of PTMs, even in dynamic systems.
PXD032244	36515178	Simultaneous loss of skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain IIx and IIb causes severe skeletal muscle hypoplasia in postnatal mice. 	KH_dKO: Simultaneous loss of skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain IIx and IIb causes severe hypoplasia of skeletal muscles in young mice	genome editing, myofiber, myosin, skeletal muscle	The skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain (MyHC) is a fundamental component of the sarcomere structure and muscle contraction. Two of the three adult fast MyHCs, MyHC-IIx and MyHC-IIb, are encoded by Myh1 and Myh4, respectively. However, skeletal muscle disorders have not yet been linked to these genes in humans. MyHC-IIb is barely detectable in human skeletal muscles. Thus, to characterize the molecular function of skeletal muscle MyHCs in humans, investigation of the effect of simultaneous loss of MyHC-IIb and other MyHCs on skeletal muscle in mice is essential. Here, we generated double knockout (dKO) mice with simultaneous loss of adult fast MyHCs by introducing nonsense frameshift mutations into the Myh1 and Myh4 genes. The dKO mice appeared normal after birth and until 2 weeks of age but showed severe skeletal muscle hypoplasia after 2 weeks. In 3-week-old dKO mice, increased expression of other skeletal muscle MyHCs, such as MyHC-I, MyHC-IIa, MyHC-neo, and MyHC-emb, was observed. However, these expressions were not sufficient to compensate for the loss of MyHC-IIb and MyHC-IIx. Moreover, the aberrant sarcomere structure with altered expression of sarcomere components was observed in dKO mice. Our findings imply that the simultaneous loss of MyHC-IIb and MyHC-IIx is substantially detrimental to postnatal skeletal muscle function and will contribute to elucidating the molecular mechanisms of skeletal muscle wasting disorders caused by the loss of skeletal muscle MyHCs.
PXD020945	36516243	Mechanistic insight into female predominance in Alzheimer's disease based on aberrant protein S-nitrosylation of C3. 	Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Lewy Body Dementia (LBD): Detection of S-Nitrosylation in Key Proteins in Human, Post-mortem Brain Samples	AD, LBD, LC-MS2	Protein S-nitros(yl)ation (SNO) is a posttranslational modification involved in diverse processes in health and disease and can contribute to synaptic damage in Alzheimer's disease (AD). To identify SNO proteins in AD brains, we used triaryl phosphine (SNOTRAP) combined with mass spectrometry (MS). We detected 1449 SNO proteins with 2809 SNO sites, representing a wide range of S-nitrosylated proteins in 40 postmortem AD and non-AD human brains from patients of both sexes. Integrative protein ranking revealed the top 10 increased SNO proteins, including complement component 3 (C3), p62 (SQSTM1), and phospholipase D3. Increased levels of S-nitrosylated C3 were present in female over male AD brains. Mechanistically, we show that formation of SNO-C3 is dependent on falling beta-estradiol levels, leading to increased synaptic phagocytosis and thus synapse loss and consequent cognitive decline. Collectively, we demonstrate robust alterations in the S-nitrosoproteome that contribute to AD pathogenesis in a sex-dependent manner.
PXD036749	36516475	A Dual Detergent Strategy to Capture a Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteome in Peptidiscs for Characterization by Mass Spectrometry and Binding Assays. 	A Simple Method to Isolate and Characterize a Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteome by Bottom-Up Mass Spectrometry	E. coli, antibiotic resistance, outer membrane proteome, peptidiscs	The outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria plays a critical role in protecting the cell against external stressors, including antibiotics, and therefore is a prime target for antimicrobial discovery. To facilitate the discovery efforts, a precise knowledge of the outer membrane proteome, and possible variations during pathogenesis, is important. Characterization of the bacterial outer membrane remain challenging, however, and low throughput, due to the high hydrophobicity and relatively low abundance of this cell compartment. Here we adapt our peptidisc-based method to selectively isolate the outer membrane proteome before analysis by mass spectrometry. Using a dual detergent membrane solubilization approach, followed by protein purification in peptidiscs, we capture over 70 outer membrane proteins, including 26 integral beta-barrels and 26 lipoproteins. Many of these proteins are present at high peptide intensities, indicative of a high abundance in the library sample. We further show that the isolated outer membrane proteome can be employed in downstream ligand-binding assays. This peptidisc library made of outer membrane proteins may therefore be useful to systematically survey other bacterial outer membrane proteomes, but also as a nanoparticle format able to support the discovery of next-generation antimicrobials. Data are available via ProteomeXchange identifier PXD036749.
PXD038311	36516484	Proteome Decomplexation of Trimeresurus erythrurus Venom from Mizoram, India. 	Proteome decomplexation of Trimeresurus erythrurus from India	Green pit viper, Rp-HPLC, Trimeresurus	Green pit vipers are the largest group of venomous vipers in tropical and subtropical Asia, which are responsible for most of the bite cases across this region. Among the green pit vipers of the Indian subcontinent, Trimeresurus erythrurus is the most prevalent; however, limited knowledge is available about its venomics. Proteome decomplexation of T. erythrurus venom using mass spectrometry revealed a blend of 53 different proteins/peptides belonging to 10 snake venom protein families. Phospholipase A2 and snake venom serine proteases were found to be the major enzymatic families, and Snaclec was the major nonenzymatic family in this venom. These protein families might be responsible for consumptive coagulopathy in victims. Along with these, snake venom metalloproteases, l-amino acid oxidases, disintegrins, and cysteine-rich secretory proteins were also found, which might be responsible for inducing painful edema, tissue necrosis, blistering, and defibrination in patients. Protein belonging to C-type lectins, C-type natriuretic peptides, and glutaminyl-peptide cyclotransfreases were also observed as trace proteins. The crude venom shows platelet aggregation in the absence of any agonist, suggesting their role in alterations in platelet functions. This study is the first proteomic analysis of T. erythrurus venom, contributing an overview of different snake venom proteins/peptides responsible for various pathophysiological disorders obtained in patients. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD038311.
PXD037414	36516773	Chromatin-associated YTHDC1 coordinates heat-induced reprogramming of gene expression. 	MS-based characterization of YTHDC1 interactome	YTHDC1, interactome, nanoLC-MS/MS, nuclear m6A reader	Heat stress (HS) induces a cellular response leading to profound changes in gene expression. Here, we show that human YTHDC1, a reader of N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) RNA modification, mostly associates to the chromatin fraction and that HS induces a redistribution of YTHDC1 across the genome, including to heat-induced heat shock protein (HSP) genes. YTHDC1 binding to m(6)A-modified HSP transcripts co-transcriptionally promotes expression of HSPs. In parallel, hundreds of the genes enriched in YTHDC1 during HS have their transcripts undergoing YTHDC1- and m(6)A-dependent intron retention. Later, YTHDC1 concentrates within nuclear stress bodies (nSBs) where it binds to m(6)A-modified SATIII non-coding RNAs, produced in an HSF1-dependent manner upon HS. These findings reveal that YTHDC1 plays a central role in a chromatin-associated m(6)A-based reprogramming of gene expression during HS. Furthermore, they support the model where the subsequent and temporary sequestration of YTHDC1 within nSBs calibrates the timing of this YTHDC1-dependent gene expression reprogramming.
PXD035716	36516775	AKTIP loss is enriched in ERalpha-positive breast cancer for tumorigenesis and confers endocrine resistance. 	Identification of AKTIP protein interaction partners in breast cancer cells MCF7	AKTIP, FTS, IP-MS, Immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry	Recurrent deletion of 16q12.2 is observed in luminal breast cancer, yet the causal genomic alterations in this region are largely unknown. In this study, we identify that loss of AKTIP, which is located on 16q12.2, drives tumorigenesis of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)-positive, but not ERalpha-negative, breast cancer cells and is associated with poor prognosis of patients with ERalpha-positive breast cancer. Intriguingly, AKTIP-depleted tumors have increased ERalpha protein level and activity. Cullin-associated and neddylation-dissociated protein 1 (CAND1), which regulates the cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligases, protects ERalpha from cullin 2-dependent proteasomal degradation. Apart from ERalpha signaling, AKTIP loss triggers JAK2-STAT3 activation, which provides an alternative survival signal when ERalpha is inhibited. AKTIP-depleted MCF7 cells and ERalpha-positive patient-derived organoids are more resistant to ERalpha antagonists. Importantly, the resistance can be overcome by co-inhibition of JAK2/STAT3. Together, our results highlight the subtype-specific functional consequences of AKTIP loss and provide a mechanistic explanation for the enriched AKTIP copy-number loss in ERalpha-positive breast cancer.
PXD032969	36517414	Plasma proteome profiling of healthy subjects undergoing bed rest reveals unloading-dependent changes linked to muscle atrophy. 	Plasma proteome profiling of healthy subjects undergoing bed rest reveals unload-dependent changes linked to muscle atrophy.Plasma proteome profiling of healthy subjects undergoing bed rest reveals unload-dependent changes linked to muscle atrophy.	atrophy, bed rest, cachexia, plasma, skeletal muscle	BACKGROUND: Inactivity and unloading induce skeletal muscle atrophy, loss of strength and detrimental metabolic effects. Bed rest is a model to study the impact of inactivity on the musculoskeletal system. It not only provides information for bed-ridden patients care, but it is also a ground-based spaceflight analogue used to mimic the challenges of long space missions for the human body. In both cases, it would be desirable to develop a panel of biomarkers to monitor muscle atrophy in a minimally invasive way at point of care to limit the onset of muscle loss in a personalized fashion. METHODS: We applied mass spectrometry-based proteomics to measure plasma protein abundance changes in response to 10 days of bed rest in 10 young males. To validate the correlation between muscle atrophy and the significant hits emerging from our study, we analysed in parallel, with the same pipeline, a cohort of cancer patients with or without cachexia and age-matched controls. Our analysis resulted in the quantification of over 500 proteins. RESULTS: Unloading affected plasma concentration of proteins of the complement cascade, lipid carriers and proteins derived from tissue leakage. Among the latter, teneurin-4 increased 1.6-fold in plasma at bed rest day 10 (BR10) compared with BR0 (6.E9 vs. 4.3E9, P = 0.02) and decreased to 0.6-fold the initial abundance after 2 days of recovery at normal daily activity (R + 2, 2.7E9, P = 3.3E-4); the extracellular matrix protein lumican was decreased to 0.7-fold (1.2E9 vs. 8.5E8, P = 1.5E-4) at BR10 and remained as low at R + 2. We identified six proteins distinguishing subjects developing unloading-mediated muscle atrophy (decrease of >4% of quadriceps cross-sectional area) from those largely maintaining their initial muscle mass. Among them, transthyretin, a thyroid hormone-binding protein, was significantly less abundant at BR10 in the plasma of subjects with muscle atrophy compared with those with no atrophy (1.6E10 vs. 2.6E10, P = 0.001). Haptoglobin-related protein was also significantly reduced in the serum of cancer patients with cachexia compared with that of controls. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight a combination or proteomic changes that can be explored as potential biomarkers of muscle atrophy occurring under different conditions. The panel of significant proteomic differences distinguishing atrophy-prone and atrophy-resistant subjects after 10 days of bed rest need to be tested in a larger cohort to validate their potential to predict inactivity-triggered muscle loss in humans.
PXD037041	36517484	In-depth mapping of protein localizations in whole tissue by micro-scaffold assisted spatial proteomics (MASP). 	MASP micro-specimen samples at different spatial locations	MASP	Accurate, in-depth mapping of proteins on whole-tissue levels provides comprehensive insights into the spatially-organized regulatory processes/networks in tissues, but is challenging. Here we describe a micro-scaffold assisted spatial proteomics (MASP) strategy, based on spatially-resolved micro-compartmentalization of tissue using a 3D-printed micro-scaffold, capable of mapping thousands of proteins across a whole-tissue slice with excellent quantitative accuracy/precision. The pipeline includes robust tissue micro-compartmentalization with precisely-preserved spatial information, reproducible procurement and preparation of the micro-specimens, followed by sensitive LC-MS analysis and map generation by a MAsP app. The mapping accuracy was validated by comparing the MASP-generated maps of spiked-in peptides and brain-region-specific markers with known patterns, and by correlating the maps of the two protein components of the same heterodimer. The MASP was applied in mapping >5000 cerebral proteins in the mouse brain, encompassing numerous important brain markers, regulators, and transporters, where many of these proteins had not previously been mapped on the whole-tissue level.
PXD033502	36517485	Composition and toxicity of venom produced by araneophagous white-tailed spiders (Lamponidae: Lampona sp. ). 	Taxon-specific toxicity and composition of venom produced by araneophagous white-tailed spiders (Lamponidae: Lampona sp.)	peptide toxin, spider, venom	Prey-specialised spiders are adapted to capture specific prey items, including dangerous prey. The venoms of specialists are often prey-specific and less complex than those of generalists, but their venom composition has not been studied in detail. Here, we investigated the venom of the prey-specialised white-tailed spiders (Lamponidae: Lampona), which utilise specialised morphological and behavioural adaptations to capture spider prey. We analysed the venom composition using proteo-transcriptomics and taxon-specific toxicity using venom bioassays. Our analysis identified 208 putative toxin sequences, comprising 103 peptides < 10 kDa and 105 proteins > 10 kDa. Most peptides belonged to one of two families characterised by scaffolds containing eight or ten cysteine residues. Toxin-like proteins showed similarity to galectins, leucine-rich repeat proteins, trypsins and neprilysins. The venom of Lampona was shown to be more potent against the preferred spider prey than against alternative cricket prey. In contrast, the venom of a related generalist was similarly potent against both prey types. These data provide insights into the molecular adaptations of venoms produced by prey-specialised spiders.
PXD028477	36517492	A Mycobacterium tuberculosis fingerprint in human breath allows tuberculosis detection. 	Mycobacterium tuberculosis fingerprint in human lungs	Exhaled breath condensate, Tuberculosis, diagnosis, lipid, lipoarabinomannan, protein	An estimated one-third of tuberculosis (TB) cases go undiagnosed or unreported. Sputum samples, widely used for TB diagnosis, are inefficient at detecting infection in children and paucibacillary patients. Indeed, developing point-of-care biomarker-based diagnostics that are not sputum-based is a major priority for the WHO. Here, in a proof-of-concept study, we tested whether pulmonary TB can be detected by analyzing patient exhaled breath condensate (EBC) samples. We find that the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb)-specific lipids, lipoarabinomannan lipoglycan, and proteins in EBCs can efficiently differentiate baseline TB patients from controls. We used EBCs to track the longitudinal effects of antibiotic treatment in pediatric TB patients. In addition, Mtb lipoarabinomannan and lipids were structurally distinct in EBCs compared to ex vivo cultured bacteria, revealing specific metabolic and biochemical states of Mtb in the human lung. This provides essential information for the rational development or improvement of diagnostic antibodies, vaccines and therapeutic drugs. Our data collectively indicate that EBC analysis can potentially facilitate clinical diagnosis of TB across patient populations and monitor treatment efficacy. This affordable, rapid and non-invasive approach seems superior to sputum assays and has the potential to be implemented at point-of-care.
PXD037991	36517588	Wound healing approach based on excretory-secretory product and lysate of liver flukes. 	Opisthorchis felineus excretory-secretory product (ESP) and lysate proteomics by GeLC-MS / MS	Opisthorchis felineus, SDS-PAGE, excretory-secretory product, lysate	Exogenous bioactive peptides are considered promising for the wound healing therapy in humans. In this regard, parasitic trematodes proteins may potentially become a new perspective agents. Foodborne trematode Opisthorchis felineus is widespread in Europe and has the ability to stimulate proliferation of bile duct epithelium. In this study, we investigated skin wound healing potential of O. felineus proteins in mouse model. C57Bl/6 mice were inflicted with superficial wounds with 8 mm diameter. Experimental groups included several non-specific controls and specific treatment groups (excretory-secretory product and lysate). After 10 days of the experiment, the percentage of wound healing in the specific treatment groups significantly exceeded the control values. We also found that wound treatment with excretory-secretory product and worm lysate resulted in: (i) inflammation reducing, (ii) vascular response modulating, (iii) type 1 collagen deposition promoting dermal ECM remodeling. An additional proteomic analysis of excretory-secretory product and worm lysate samples was revealed 111 common proteins. The obtained data indicate a high wound-healing potential of liver fluke proteins and open prospects for further research as new therapeutic approaches.
PXD037257	36517592	A male germ-cell-specific ribosome controls male fertility. 	PRM-based quantitative proteomic analysis of ribosomes in GC-1 cell line	GC-1, PRM, protein quantification, ribosome	Ribosomes are highly sophisticated translation machines that have been demonstrated to be heterogeneous in the regulation of protein synthesis(1,2). Male germ cell development involves complex translational regulation during sperm formation(3). However, it remains unclear whether translation during sperm formation is performed by a specific ribosome. Here we report a ribosome with a specialized nascent polypeptide exit tunnel, Ribosome(ST), that is assembled with the male germ-cell-specific protein RPL39L, the paralogue of core ribosome (Ribosome(Core)) protein RPL39. Deletion of Ribosome(ST) in mice causes defective sperm formation, resulting in substantially reduced fertility. Our comparison of single-particle cryo-electron microscopy structures of ribosomes from mouse kidneys and testes indicates that Ribosome(ST) features a ribosomal polypeptide exit tunnel of distinct size and charge states compared with Ribosome(Core). Ribosome(ST) predominantly cotranslationally regulates the folding of a subset of male germ-cell-specific proteins that are essential for the formation of sperm. Moreover, we found that specialized functions of Ribosome(ST) were not replaceable by Ribosome(Core). Taken together, identification of this sperm-specific ribosome should greatly expand our understanding of ribosome function and tissue-specific regulation of protein expression pattern in mammals.
PXD032870	36518171	Adsorption of extracellular proteases and pyocyanin produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa using a macroporous magnesium oxide-templated carbon decreases cytotoxicity. 	Identification of the extracellular proteins of P. aeruginosa that are involved in toxicity and adsorbed by microporous carbon	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, extracellular protein	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is one of the most common pathogens isolated in clinical settings and produces a wide range of extracellular molecules that contributes to the virulence. Chemotherapy options to prevent and treat P. aeruginosa infections are limited because this pathogen is highly and innately resistant to some classes of conventional drugs. Alternative methods to conquer P. aeruginosa, including multidrug resistant strains, are being investigated. This study showed that a macroporous magnesium oxide (MgO)-templated carbon material (MgOC150) attenuates the toxicity of this bacterium in human epithelial cells. A proteomic analysis revealed that MgOC150 adsorbs some extracellular proteases, including elastase (LasB) and alkaline protease (AprA), required for the virulence of P. aeruginosa, which decreases the accumulation of these molecules. MgOC150 also adsorbed pyocyanin, which is another molecule involved in its pathogenesis, but is a nonprotein small-sized molecule. These results suggest a potency of MgOC150 that suppresses the virulence of P. aeruginosa. MgOC150 has been used for industrial purposes, as an electrode catalyst and a bioelectrode and for enzyme immobilization. Thus, MgOC150 could be beneficial for developing novel anti-Pseudomonas therapy.
PXD024008	36518247	Epididymal epithelial degeneration and lipid metabolism impairment account for male infertility in occludin knockout mice. 	Proteome from whole epididymis and caput epididymidis of WT and Ocln knockout mice	DC2 cell lines, IP-MS/MS, TMT labeled proteomics, epididymis, mice	Occludin (OCLN) is a tight junction protein and Ocln deletion mutation causes male infertility in mice. However, the role of OCLN in male reproductive system remains unknown. In this study, we used an interdisciplinary approach to elucidate the underlying mechanism of male infertility in related to OCLN function, including Ocln knockout mice as well as a combined omics analysis and immunofluorescent labelling. Our results showed that the epididymis of Ocln-null mice displayed a phenomenon resembling epididymal sperm granuloma, which occurred especially in the junctional region between caput and corpus epididymidis. Sperm motility and fertilisation capacity were also impaired in these Ocln-null mice, accompanied by enlarged tubules in the proximal regions and degeneration in the distal regions of epididymis. Cellular localization analysis showed that OCLN immunofluorescence was enriched only in the apical junction of epithelial principal cells in the proximal regions of epididymis. Integrative omics analysis revealed the downregulation of gene clusters enriched in acid secretion and fatty acid metabolism in the Ocln-null epididymis, especially the enzymes related to the unsaturated arachidonic acid pathway. The number of proton-pump V-ATPase-expression clear cells, a key player of luminal acidification in the epididymis, declined drastically from prepubertal age before sperm arrival but not in the early postnatal age. This was accompanied by programmed cell death of clear cells and increased pH in the epididymal fluid of OCLN-deficient mice. The lipidomics results showed significantly increased levels of specific DAGs conjugated to unsaturated fatty acids in the Ocln-mutant. Immunofluorescent labelling showed that the arachidonic acid converting enzyme PTGDS and phospholipase PLA2g12a were prominently altered in the principal cells and luminal contents of the Ocln-mutant epididymis. Whereas the carboxylate ester lipase CES1, originally enriched in the WT basal cells, was found upregulated in the Ocln-mutant principal cells. Overall, this study demonstrates that OCLN is essential for maintaining caput-to-corpus epithelial integrity, survival of acid-secreting clear cells, and unsaturated fatty acid catabolism in the mouse epididymis, thereby ensuring sperm maturation and male fertility.
PXD034212	36518382	A proteomic study to unveil lead toxicity-induced memory impairments invoked by synaptic dysregulation. 	Impact of neonatal lead exposure on memory: A study highlighting the association between hippocampal synaptic proteome and cognitive decline in rats	hippocampus, lead toxicity, memory impairment	Lead (Pb(2+)), a ubiquitously present heavy metal toxin, has various detrimental effects on memory and cognition. However, the molecular processes affected by Pb(2+) causing structural and functional anomalies are still unclear. To explore this, we employed behavioral and proteomic approaches using rat pups exposed to lead acetate through maternal lactation from postnatal day 0 (P0) until weaning. Behavioral results from three-month-old rats clearly emphasized the early life Pb(2+) exposure induced impairments in spatial cognition. Further, proteomic analysis of synaptosomal fractions revealed differential alteration of 289 proteins, which shows functional significance in elucidating Pb(2+) induced physiological changes. Focusing on the association of Small Ubiquitin-like MOdifier (SUMO), a post-translational modification, with Pb(2+) induced cognitive abnormalities, we identified 45 key SUMO target proteins. The significant downregulation of SUMO target proteins such as metabotropic glutamate receptor 3 (GRM3), glutamate receptor isoforms 2 and 3 (GRIA 2 and GRIA3) and flotilin-1 (FLOT1) indicates SUMOylation at the synapses could contribute to and drive Pb(2+) induced physiological imbalance. These findings identify SUMOylation as a vital protein modifier with potential roles in hippocampal memory consolidation and regulation of cognition. Data availbility: The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD034212&#34.
PXD033622	36520032	Integrated proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of gastric adenocarcinoma reveals molecular signatures capable of stratifying patient outcome. 	Integrated proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of gastric adenocarcinoma reveals molecular signatures capable of stratifying patient outcome	SPON1, TNXB, biomarker, gastric adenocarcinoma, lymph node metastasis	Metastasis is one of the main causes of low survival rate of gastric cancer patients. Exploring key proteins in the progression of gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) may provide new candidates for prognostic biomarker development and therapeutic intervention. We applied quantitative mass spectrometry to compare the proteome and phosphoproteome of primary tumor tissues between GAC patients with and without lymph node metastasis (LNM). We then performed an integrated analysis of the proteomic and transcriptomic data to reveal the molecular features. We quantified a total of 5536 proteins, and we found 218 upregulated and 49 downregulated proteins in tumor samples from patients with LNM compared to those without LNM. Clustering analysis identified a number of hub proteins that have been previously shown to play important roles in gastric cancer progression. We also found that two extracellular proteins, TNXB and SPON1, are overexpressed in patients with LNM, which correlates with poor survival of GAC patients. Overexpression of TNXB and SPON1 was validated by western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, treating gastric cancer cells with anti-TNXB antibody significantly reduced cell migration. Finally, quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis combined with activity-based kinase capture revealed a number of activated kinases in primary tumor tissues from patients with LNM, among which GSK3 might be a new target that warrants further study. Our study provides a snapshot of the proteome and phosphoproteome of GAC tumor tissues that have metastatic potential, and identifies potential biomarkers for GAC progression.
PXD039306	36520605	Evolutionary and cellular analysis of the 'dark' pseudokinase PSKH2. 	Evolutionary and cellular analysis of the'dark'pseudokinase PSKH2	PSKH2, Pseudokinase	Pseudokinases, so named because they lack one or more conserved canonical amino acids that define their catalytically active relatives, have evolved a variety of biological functions in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. Human PSKH2 is closely related to the canonical kinase PSKH1, which maps to the CAMK family of protein kinases. Primates encode PSKH2 in the form of a pseudokinase, which is predicted to be catalytically inactive due to loss of the invariant catalytic Asp residue. Although the biological role(s) of vertebrate PSKH2 proteins remains unclear, we previously identified species-level adaptions in PSKH2 that have led to the appearance of kinase or pseudokinase variants in vertebrate genomes alongside a canonical PSKH1 paralog. In this paper we confirm that, as predicted, PSKH2 lacks detectable protein phosphotransferase activity, and exploit structural informatics, biochemistry and cellular proteomics to begin to characterise vertebrate PSKH2 orthologues. AlphaFold 2-based structural analysis predicts functional roles for both the PSKH2 N- and C-regions that flank the pseudokinase domain core, and cellular truncation analysis confirms that the N-terminal domain, which contains a conserved myristoylation site, is required for both stable human PSKH2 expression and localisation to a membrane-rich subcellular fraction containing mitochondrial proteins. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we confirm that human PSKH2 is part of a cellular mitochondrial protein network, and that its expression is regulated through client-status within the HSP90/Cdc37 molecular chaperone system. HSP90 interactions are mediated through binding to the PSKH2 C-terminal tail, leading us to predict that this region might act as both a cis and trans regulatory element, driving outputs linked to the PSKH2 pseudokinase domain that are important for functional signalling.
PXD033846	36520888	Endosomal lipid signaling reshapes the endoplasmic reticulum to control mitochondrial function. 	APEX2 proximity labeling of PI(3)P dependent ER and early endosome membrane contact tether proteins	APEX2, ER, HeLa, LC-MS, MTM1, early endosome, membrane contact	Cells respond to fluctuating nutrient supply by adaptive changes in organelle dynamics and in metabolism. How such changes are orchestrated on a cell-wide scale is unknown. We show that endosomal signaling lipid turnover by MTM1, a phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate [PI(3)P] 3-phosphatase mutated in X-linked centronuclear myopathy in humans, controls mitochondrial morphology and function by reshaping the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Starvation-induced endosomal recruitment of MTM1 impairs PI(3)P-dependent contact formation between tubular ER membranes and early endosomes, resulting in the conversion of ER tubules into sheets, the inhibition of mitochondrial fission, and sustained oxidative metabolism. Our results unravel an important role for early endosomal lipid signaling in controlling ER shape and, thereby, mitochondrial form and function to enable cells to adapt to fluctuating nutrient environments.
PXD037553	36521247	Quantitative proteomics reveals common and unique molecular mechanisms underlying beneficial effects of caffeine and trigonelline on human hepatocytes. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals common and unique molecular mechanisms underlying beneficial effects of caffeine and trigonelline on human hepatocytes	Coffee, HepG2, Hepatoprotection, Protein synthesis, Ribosome, Translation	Caffeine and trigonelline are the major bioactive compounds in coffee. Caffeine alone or combined with other coffee compounds shows hepatoprotective effects. However, molecular mechanisms underlying such hepatoprotective effects remain unclear. We therefore addressed molecular effects of caffeine and trigonelline on human hepatocytes using quantitative proteomics followed by bioinformatic analyses to obtain topological and functional significance. HepG2 cells were treated with 100 muM caffeine or trigonelline for 24-h and evaluated by quantitative proteomics using nanoLC-ESI-LTQ-Orbitrap MS/MS. A total of 26 and 25 significantly altered proteins were identified in caffeine-treated and trigonelline-treated cells, respectively, compared with control cells. Topological analyses revealed that ribosomal and translation regulatory proteins predominantly served as the hub proteins associated with protein clusters. Functional analyses also revealed that these two bioactive compounds shared some molecular mechanisms via induction of translational processes. There were also other unique molecular functions and biological processes triggered or suppressed by either caffeine or trigonelline. These data highlight common and unique molecular mechanisms underlying the hepatoprotective effects of caffeine and trigonelline that may be useful for future clinical applications.
PXD038798	36522330	Structural insights into p300 regulation and acetylation-dependent genome organisation. 	Structural insights into p300 regulation and acetylation-dependent genome organisation	Acetylation, nucleosome, p300	Histone modifications are deposited by chromatin modifying enzymes and read out by proteins that recognize the modified state. BRD4-NUT is an oncogenic fusion protein of the acetyl lysine reader BRD4 that binds to the acetylase p300 and enables formation of long-range intra- and interchromosomal interactions. We here examine how acetylation reading and writing enable formation of such interactions. We show that NUT contains an acidic transcriptional activation domain that binds to the TAZ2 domain of p300. We use NMR to investigate the structure of the complex and found that the TAZ2 domain has an autoinhibitory role for p300. NUT-TAZ2 interaction or mutations found in cancer that interfere with autoinhibition by TAZ2 allosterically activate p300. p300 activation results in a self-organizing, acetylation-dependent feed-forward reaction that enables long-range interactions by bromodomain multivalent acetyl-lysine binding. We discuss the implications for chromatin organisation, gene regulation and dysregulation in disease.
PXD035350	36522427	Structure of a volume-regulated heteromeric LRRC8A/C channel. 	Structure of a volume-regulated heteromeric LRRC8A/C channel	Exploris 480, LRRC8, PRM, Volume-regulated anion channels, X-ray chrystallography, affinity purification, cryo-EM, nanobody	Volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) participate in the cellular response to osmotic swelling. These membrane proteins consist of heteromeric assemblies of LRRC8 subunits, whose compositions determine permeation properties. Although structures of the obligatory LRRC8A, also referred to as SWELL1, have previously defined the architecture of VRACs, the organization of heteromeric channels has remained elusive. Here we have addressed this question by the structural characterization of murine LRRC8A/C channels. Like LRRC8A, these proteins assemble as hexamers. Despite 12 possible arrangements, we find a predominant organization with an A:C ratio of two. In this assembly, four LRRC8A subunits cluster in their preferred conformation observed in homomers, as pairs of closely interacting proteins that stabilize a closed state of the channel. In contrast, the two interacting LRRC8C subunits show a larger flexibility, underlining their role in the destabilization of the tightly packed A subunits, thereby enhancing the activation properties of the protein.
PXD036225	36522779	Aedes aegypti Malpighian tubules are immunologically activated following systemic Toll activation. 	Aedes aegypti Malpighian tubules are immunologically activated following systemic Toll activation	Aedes, Cactus, Hemolymph, LFQ, Toll	BACKGROUND: Canine heartworm is a widespread and potentially fatal mosquito-borne disease caused by infections with the parasitic nematode, Dirofilaria immitis. We have previously shown that systemic activation of the Toll immune pathway via silencing of the negative regulator Cactus in Aedes aegypti blocks parasite development in the Malpighian tubules (MT), the mosquito renal organ. However, it was not established whether the MT were directly responding to Toll activation or were alternatively responding to upregulated proteins or other changes to the hemolymph driven by other tissues. Distinguishing these possibilities is crucial for developing more precise strategies to block D. immitis while potentially avoiding the fitness cost to the mosquito associated with Cactus silencing. METHODS: This study defines the transcriptional response of the MT and changes to the hemolymph proteome of Ae. aegypti after systemic Toll activation via intra-thoracic injection of double-stranded Cactus (dsCactus) RNA. RESULTS: Malpighian tubules significantly increased expression of the Toll pathway target genes that significantly overlapped expression changes occurring in whole mosquitoes. A significant overlap between the transcriptional response of the MT and proteins upregulated in the hemolymph was also observed. CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that MT are capable of RNA interference-mediated gene silencing and directly respond to dsCactus treatment by upregulating targets of the canonical Toll pathway. Although not definitive, the strong correspondence between the MT transcriptional response and the hemolymph proteomic responses provides evidence that the MT may contribute to mosquito humoral immunity.
PXD036389	36523490	Exploring the "gene-protein-metabolite" network of coronary heart disease with phlegm and blood stasis syndrome by integrated multi-omics strategy. 	DIA-based proteomic analysis of CHD patients with PBS Syndrome	Coronary heart disease, DIA, Phlegm and Blood Stasis Syndrome	Background: According to the theory of traditional Chinese medicine, phlegm and blood stasis (PBS) is the pathological basis for coronary heart disease (CHD). This study aimed to explore the biological basis of PBS syndrome in CHD. Methods: Using a strategy that integrated RNA-seq, DIA-based proteomics, and untargeted metabolomics on 90 clinic samples, we constructed a "gene-protein-metabolite" network for CHD-PBS syndrome. We expanded the sample size and validated the differential genes and metabolites in the network through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: Our findings revealed that the "gene-protein-metabolite" network of CHD-PBS syndrome included 33 mRNAs, four proteins, and 25 metabolites. JNK1, FOS, CCL2, CXCL8, PTGS2, and CSF1 were all poorly expressed in the PBS group during the sequencing stage, whereas arachidonic acid (AA) was highly expressed. During the validation stage, JNK1, AP-1, CCL2, and CXCL8 were poorly expressed, whereas PTGS2, CSF1, and AA were highly expressed. The area under the receiver operating curve was as follows: CSF1 [0.9635, 95%CI (0.9295, 0.9976)] >JNK1 [0.9361, 95% CI (0.8749, 0.9972)] >CXCL8 [0.8953, 95% CI (0.8222, 0.9684)] > CCL2 [0.8458, 95% CI (0.7676, 0.9241)] >AP-1 [0.7884, 95%CI (0.6869, 0.8899)]. The logistic regression model composed of CSF1 and JNK1 showed the greatest diagnostic value and significance for PBS syndrome. Conclusion: PBS syndrome is characterized by low levels of FOS, AP-1, CCL2, CXCL8, and JNK1 and elevated levels of PTGS2 and CSF1, implying that the AA metabolism is abnormal and that the JNK/AP-1 pathway is inhibited. PBS syndromes, as a subtype of CHD, may have unique molecular changes. Background. Globally, coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death, and this would likely continue until 2030 (Mirzaei et al., 2009, 95, 740-746). According to the disease course, CHD can be classified as chronic stable CHD (or chronic coronary syndrome) and acute coronary syndrome (ACS) (Katus et al., 2017; Knuuti, 2019). Although stable CHD is not as lethal as ACS, it has a varied incidence range and patients with CHD have prolonged angina. Some symptoms of stable angina are alleviated with pharmacological therapy, but it cannot eliminate recurrent angina (Rousan et al., 2017). The clinical outcomes were not significantly improved in patients who underwent revascularization compared with those who received optimal pharmacological therapy (Shaw et al., 2008; Antman and Braunwald, 2020). A bottleneck appears to exist in CHD treatment, and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) can act as a favorable complement. Because of its individualized treatment approach, TCM is widely practiced in eastern civilizations (Teng et al., 2016). TCM has become a principal complement in western countries (Wieland et al., 2013). Like "disease" is used in western medicine, "syndrome" is used in TCM to comprehend anomalous human conditions on the basis of patients' symptoms, tongue, and pulse (Li et al., 2012). On the basis of disease-syndrome diagnose, a TCM doctor can subclassify CHD patients into various categories, such as phlegm and blood stasis (PBS) syndrome, cold congealing and Qi stagnation syndrome, and Qi stagnation and blood stasis syndrome. PBS syndrome has recently emerged as a hot research topic in the TCM field. Objective diagnosis, expert consultations, and efficacy evaluation scales have been developed for PBS syndrome (Ren et al., 2020; Liu et al., 2021; Zheng et al., 2022). The concept of "omics" originates from the genome. It refers to the vocabulary generated by biological molecules at different levels to describe high-sequence molecular biological data resources (Dai and Shen, 2022). RNA, protein, and metabolites decipher the essence of complex etiologies, and the integration of transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics are becoming a promising research mode (Pan et al., 2022). Multi-omics studies have revealed the biological characteristics of APOE transgenic mice, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and plant tolerant to heavy metals (Singh et al., 2016; Lal et al., 2018; Mohler et al., 2020). Over the past few years, many academic achievements related to CHD-PBS syndrome have been accrued in the single-omic area. For example, Zhou identified the differential metabolites between PBS syndrome and Qi and Yin deficiency syndrome by using the urine samples of 1072 volunteers. Some of the specific metabolites of PBS syndrome are pyroglutamic acid, glutaric acid, glucose, mannitol, and xanthine (Zhou et al., 2019). Li's metabolomic study suggested that valine, leucine, isoleucine, and glycerol phospholipid metabolism could represent PBS syndrome (Zheng et al., 2022). Although some progress has been made in the understanding of PBS syndrome in CHD through the studies conducted, some issues still exist, such as a single-omics level, a lack of in-depth research, an inability to verify each other's research results, and a lack of validation of research conclusions. Overall, a systematic description of the biological foundation of PBS syndrome is lacking. Thus, the present study utilizes system biology methodologies and constructs a multi-omics network by integrating differential genes, proteins, and metabolites to systematically and comprehensively reveal the biological basis of CHD-PBS syndrome. The current study explored 1) the characteristics of the transcriptome, proteome, and metabolome for CHD-PBS syndrome; 2) the "gene-protein-metabolite" network based on differential genes (DGs), differential proteins (DPs), and differential metabolites (DMs); 3) the key biological process and metabolic pathway most related to PBS syndrome; and 4) quantitative results and the diagnostic potential of biomarkers for PSB syndrome. Materials and methods. Multi-omics sequencing, bioinformatics analysis, and clinical validation research strategy. We collected the blood samples from healthy subjects as well as CHD patients with PBS and non-phlegm and blood stasis (NPBS) syndrome to compare the differences between them by subjecting the samples to the transcriptome, proteome, and metabolomics analyses. Bioinformatics analysis identified differential molecules as well as related biological processes and pathways. Next, the "gene-protein-metabolite" network was constructed using the MetaboAnalyst database, String database, and Cytoscape software. We selected molecules with strong centrality and biological association as potential PBS syndrome biomarkers and recruited more volunteers for further validation by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Finally, the ROC curve was utilized to assess the level and diagnostic efficacy of various molecules (Figure 1).
PXD025076	36524113	Combined proteomics and single cell RNA-sequencing analysis to identify biomarkers of disease diagnosis and disease exacerbation for systemic lupus erythematosus. 	Global Phosphoproteomics Reveals Molecular Networks in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus	Kinases, Phosproteomics, SLE active stage, SLE remission stage, parallel reaction monitoring	Introduction: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease for which there is no cure. Effective diagnosis and precise assessment of disease exacerbation remains a major challenge. Methods: We performed peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) proteomics of a discovery cohort, including patients with active SLE and inactive SLE, patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and healthy controls (HC). Then, we performed a machine learning pipeline to identify biomarker combinations. The biomarker combinations were further validated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) in another cohort. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from active SLE, inactive SLE, and HC PBMC samples further elucidated the potential immune cellular sources of each of these PBMC biomarkers. Results: Screening of the PBMC proteome identified 1023, 168, and 124 proteins that were significantly different between SLE vs. HC, SLE vs. RA, and active SLE vs. inactive SLE, respectively. The machine learning pipeline identified two biomarker combinations that accurately distinguished patients with SLE from controls and discriminated between active and inactive SLE. The validated results of ELISAs for two biomarker combinations were in line with the discovery cohort results. Among them, the six-protein combination (IFIT3, MX1, TOMM40, STAT1, STAT2, and OAS3) exhibited good performance for SLE disease diagnosis, with AUC of 0.723 and 0.815 for distinguishing SLE from HC and RA, respectively. Nine-protein combination (PHACTR2, GOT2, L-selectin, CMC4, MAP2K1, CMPK2, ECPAS, SRA1, and STAT2) showed a robust performance in assessing disease exacerbation (AUC=0.990). Further, the potential immune cellular sources of nine PBMC biomarkers, which had the consistent changes with the proteomics data, were elucidated by PBMC scRNAseq. Discussion: Unbiased proteomic quantification and experimental validation of PBMC samples from two cohorts of patients with SLE were identified as biomarker combinations for diagnosis and activity monitoring. Furthermore, the immune cell subtype origin of the biomarkers in the transcript expression level was determined using PBMC scRNAseq. These findings present valuable PBMC biomarkers associated with SLE and may reveal potential therapeutic targets.
PXD037432	36524443	Recruitment of TRIM33 to cell-context specific PML nuclear bodies regulates nodal signaling in mESCs. 	Proximity labelling with TurboID shows that client proteins of PML NBs differ in three cell contexts	NaAsO2, PML, TurboID, differentiation, mESC	TRIM33 is a chromatin reader required for mammalian mesendoderm differentiation after activation of Nodal signaling, while its role in mESCs is still elusive. Here, we report that TRIM33 co-localizes with promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies (PML-NBs) specifically in mESCs, to mediate Nodal signaling-directed transcription of Lefty1/2. We show that TRIM33 puncta formation in mESCs depends on PML and on specific assembly of PML-NBs. Moreover, TRIM33 and PML co-regulate Lefty1/2 expression in mESCs, with both PML protein and formation of mESCs-specific PML-NBs being required for TRIM33 recruitment to these loci, and PML-NBs directly associating with the Lefty1/2 loci. Finally, a TurboID proximity-labeling experiment confirmed that TRIM33 is highly enriched only in mESCs-specific PML-NBs. Thus, our study supports a model in which TRIM33 condensates regulate Nodal signaling-directed transcription in mESCs and shows that PML-NBs can recruit distinct sets of client proteins in a cell-context-dependent manner.
PXD027892	36524729	Downregulation of HbFPS1 affects rubber biosynthesis of Hevea brasiliensis suffering from tapping panel dryness. 	HHbFPS1 may play an important role in the effect of tapping panel dryness on the natural rubber biosynthesis in Hevea brasiliensis latex	Hevea brasiliensis, iTRAQ, latex, tapping panel dryness	Tapping panel dryness (TPD) is a century-old problem that has plagued the natural rubber production of Hevea brasiliensis. TPD may result from self-protective mechanisms of H. brasiliensis in response to stresses such as excessive hormone stimulation and mechanical wounding (bark tapping). It has been hypothesized that TPD impairs rubber biosynthesis; however, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. In the present study, we firstly verified that TPD-affected rubber trees exhibited lower rubber biosynthesis activity and greater rubber molecular weight compared to healthy rubber trees. We then demonstrated that HbFPS1, a key gene of rubber biosynthesis, and its expression products were downregulated in the latex of TPD-affected rubber trees, as revealed by transcriptome sequencing and iTRAQ-based proteome analysis. We further discovered that the farnesyl diphosphate synthase HbFPS1 could be recruited to small rubber particles by HbSRPP1 through protein-protein interactions to catalyze farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) synthesis and facilitate rubber biosynthesis initiation. FPP content in the latex of TPD-affected rubber trees was significantly decreased with the downregulation of HbFPS1, ultimately resulting in abnormal development of rubber particles, decreased rubber biosynthesis activity, and increased rubber molecular weight. Upstream regulator assays indicated that a novel regulator, MYB2-like, may be an important regulator of downregulation of HbFPS1 in the latex of TPD-affected rubber trees. Our findings not only provide new directions for studying the molecular events involved in rubber biosynthesis and TPD syndrome and contribute to rubber management strategies, but also broaden our knowledge of plant isoprenoid metabolism and its regulatory networks.
PXD035794	36525503	Disentangling the lipid divide: Identification of key enzymes for the biosynthesis of membrane-spanning and ether lipids in Bacteria. 	Biosynthesis of membrane-spanning ether lipids in Thermotoga maritima.	Temperature, Thermotoga maritima, ether lipids, growth phase, lipid divide, membrane-spanning lipids	Bacterial membranes are composed of fatty acids (FAs) ester-linked to glycerol-3-phosphate, while archaea have membranes made of isoprenoid chains ether-linked to glycerol-1-phosphate. Many archaeal species organize their membrane as a monolayer of membrane-spanning lipids (MSLs). Exceptions to this "lipid divide" are the production by some bacterial species of (ether-bound) MSLs, formed by tail-to-tail condensation of FAs resulting in the formation of (iso) diabolic acids (DAs), which are the likely precursors of paleoclimatological relevant branched glycerol dialkyl glycerol tetraether molecules. However, the enzymes responsible for their production are unknown. Here, we report the discovery of bacterial enzymes responsible for the condensation reaction of FAs and for ether bond formation and confirm that the building blocks of iso-DA are branched iso-FAs. Phylogenomic analyses of the key biosynthetic genes reveal a much wider diversity of potential MSL (ether)-producing bacteria than previously thought, with importantt implications for our understanding of the evolution of lipid membranes.
PXD029347	36525747	Biodistribution of (89)Zr-DFO-labeled avian pathogenic Escherichia coli outer membrane vesicles by PET imaging in chickens. 	Proteomics raw data of APEC-OMV isolated from APEC (AE17) and APEC-OMV isolated from APEC infected DF-1 cells	APEC-OMV Proteomics Raw Data	Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) is a serious systemic infectious disease in poultry infections, causing severe economic losses to the poultry industry. Previous studies have shown that secretion of virulence proteins was required for the pathogenicity of APEC through the secretion system. Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) are a generalized secretion system of Gram-negative bacteria that play a key role in the long-distance delivery of virulence factors, but whether they are associated with the pathogenic mechanism of APEC has not been determined. In this study, OMVs were purified and characterized from AE17 (O2 serotype) by ultracentrifugation and density gradient centrifugation and their protein cargo was identified using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). In addition, (89)Zr was labeled after chelating AE17 OMVs by DFO and positron emission tomography PET imaging was used to track (89)Zr-DFO-OMVs in chickens and to pathologically analyze the distribution sites. This study showed that AE17 OMVs were membrane vesicles ranging in size from 20 to 200 nm and proteomic analysis revealed the presence of virulence proteins, including adhesion proteins OmpA, OmpC, OmpF, OmpX, FimH, FimC and FigE, and serum resistance proteins OmpT and MliC and immune response regulator proteins (FliC). In addition, in vivo PET imaging to track the biodistribution of AE17 OMVs showed that AE17 OMVs were taken up by the lung region and the gastrointestinal and renal regions but were not detected in other areas. Pathological analysis of the tissue sites where AE17 OMVs were ingested showed inflammatory responses and damage. These findings suggested that AE17 OMVs not only contained a group of virulence proteins associated with AE17 infection but can also deliver these virulence proteins over long distances and caused tissue inflammatory damage. Our study revealed a previously unidentified causative microbial signal in the pathogenesis of APEC that could aid in the development of vaccines and antibiotics effective against APEC.
PXD031000	36525778	Cold-adapted amphipod species upon heat stress: Proteomic responses and their correlation with transcriptomic responses. 	Proteomes of the cold-adapted Baikal region amphipods exposed to heat shock	TMT-labeling, amphipods, heat shock	The cellular heat shock response (HSR) comprises transcriptomic and proteomic reactions to thermal stress. It was here addressed, how the proteomic, together with the transcriptomic HSR, relate to the thermal sensitivities of three cold-adapted but differently thermo-sensitive freshwater amphipod species. The proteomes of thermosensitive Eulimnogammarus verrucosus and thermotolerant Eulimnogammarus cyaneus, both endemic to Lake Baikal, and of thermotolerant Holarctic Gammarus lacustris were investigated upon 24 h exposure to the species-specific 10 % lethal temperatures (LT10). Furthermore, correlations of heat stress induced changes in proteomes (this study) and transcriptomes (previous study with identical experimental design) were examined. Proteomes indicated that the HSR activated processes encompassed (i) proteostasis maintenance, (ii) maintenance of cell adhesion, (iii) oxygen transport, (iv) antioxidant response, and (v) regulation of protein synthesis. Thermo-sensitive E. verrucosus showed the most pronounced proteomic HSR and the lowest correlation of transcriptomic and proteomic HSRs. For proteins related to translation (ribosomal proteins, elongation factors), transcriptomic and proteomic changes were inconsistent: transcripts were downregulated in many cases, with levels of corresponding proteins remaining unchanged. In the Eulimnogammarus species, levels of hemocyanin protein but not transcript were increased upon heat stress, suggesting a HSR also directed to enhance oxygen transport. Thermosensitive E. verrucosus showed the most pronounced relocation of transcription/translation activity to proteostasis maintenance, which may indicate that the general species-specific stability of protein structure could be a fundamental determinant of thermotolerance. By combining transcriptomic and proteomic response data, this study provides a comprehensive picture of the cellular HSR components in the studied amphipods.
PXD031927	36526365	Comparative Proteomics Analysis of Growth-Primed Adult Dorsal Root Ganglia Reveals Key Molecular Mediators for Peripheral Nerve Regeneration. 	Comparative proteomics analysis of growth-primed adult dorsal root ganglia reveals key molecular mediators for peripheral nerve regeneration	DRGs, Nerve regeneration, comparative proteomics, rat, sciatic nerve, sensory neuron of dorsal root ganglion, spinal root	Injuries to peripheral nerves are frequent, yet no drug therapies are available for effective nerve repair. The slow growth rate of axons and inadequate access to growth factors challenge natural repair of nerves. A better understanding of the molecules that can promote the rate of axon growth may reveal therapeutic opportunities. Molecular profiling of injured neurons at early intervals of injury, when regeneration is at the maximum, has been the gold standard for exploring growth promoters. A complementary in vitro regenerative priming model was recently shown to induce enhanced outgrowth in adult sensory neurons. In this work, we exploited the in vitro priming model to reveal novel candidates for adult nerve regeneration. We performed a whole-tissue proteomics analysis of the in vitro primed dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) from adult SD rats and compared their molecular profile with that of the in vivo primed, and control DRGs. The proteomics data generated are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD031927. From the follow-up analysis, Bioinformatics interventions, and literature curation, we identified several molecules that were differentially expressed in the primed DRGs with a potential to modulate adult nerve regrowth. We then validated the growth promoting roles of mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF), one of the hits we identified, in adult rat sensory neurons. Overall, in this study, we explored two growth priming paradigm and shortlisted several candidates, and validated MANF, as potential targets for adult nerve regeneration. We also demonstrate that the in vitro priming model is a valid tool for adult nerve regeneration studies.
PXD038653	36526632	Hepatic neddylation deficiency triggers fatal liver injury via inducing NF-kappaB-inducing kinase in mice. 	Posttranslation modification of NF-kB inducing kinase	NIK	The conjugation of neural precursor cell expressed, developmentally downregulated 8 (NEDD8) to target proteins, termed neddylation, participates in many cellular processes and is aberrant in various pathological diseases. Its relevance to liver function and failure remains poorly understood. Herein, we show dysregulated expression of NAE1, a regulatory subunit of the only NEDD8 E1 enzyme, in human acute liver failure. Embryonic- and adult-onset deletion of NAE1 in hepatocytes causes hepatocyte death, inflammation, and fibrosis, culminating in fatal liver injury in mice. Hepatic neddylation deficiency triggers oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and hepatocyte reprogramming, potentiating liver injury. Importantly, NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK), a serine/Thr kinase, is a neddylation substrate. Neddylation of NIK promotes its ubiquitination and degradation. Inhibition of neddylation conversely causes aberrant NIK activation, accentuating hepatocyte damage and inflammation. Administration of N-acetylcysteine, a glutathione surrogate and antioxidant, mitigates liver failure caused by hepatic NAE1 deletion in adult male mice. Therefore, hepatic neddylation is important in maintaining postnatal and adult liver homeostasis, and the identified neddylation targets/pathways provide insights into therapeutically intervening acute liver failure.
PXD030009	36526981	Proteomic profiling of end-stage COVID-19 lung biopsies. 	Proteomics profiling of end-stage COVID-19 diseased human lungs	ARDS, COVID, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, lung, pneumonia	The outbreak of a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in 2019 led to a worldwide pandemic, which remains an integral part of our lives to this day. Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a flu like condition, often accompanied by high fever and respiratory distress. In some cases, conjointly with other co-morbidities, COVID-19 can become severe, leading to lung arrest and even death. Although well-known from a clinical standpoint, the mechanistic understanding of lethal COVID-19 is still rudimentary. Studying the pathology and changes on a molecular level associated with the resulting COVID-19 disease is impeded by the highly infectious nature of the virus and the concomitant sampling challenges. We were able to procure COVID-19 post-mortem lung tissue specimens by our collaboration with the BSL-3 laboratory of the Biobanking and BioMolecular resources Research Infrastructure Austria which we subjected to state-of-the-art quantitative proteomic analysis to better understand the pulmonary manifestations of lethal COVID-19. Lung tissue samples from age-matched non-COVID-19 patients who died within the same period were used as controls. Samples were subjected to parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation combined with data-independent acquisition (diaPASEF) on a timsTOF Pro and obtained raw data was processed using DIA-NN software. Here we report that terminal COVID-19 patients display an increase in inflammation, acute immune response and blood clot formation (with concomitant triggering of fibrinolysis). Furthermore, we describe that COVID-19 diseased lungs undergo severe extracellular matrix restructuring, which was corroborated on the histopathological level. However, although undergoing an injury, diseased lungs seem to have impaired proliferative and tissue repair signalling, with several key kinase-mediated signalling pathways being less active. This might provide a mechanistic link to post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC; "Long COVID"). Overall, we emphasize the importance of histopathological patient stratification when interpreting molecular COVID-19 data.
PXD034998	36527478	Bioprospecting for fungal enzymes for applications in microalgal biomass biorefineries. 	bioprospecting for fungal enzymes for applications in microalgal-biomass based biorefineries	Aspergillus niger, biorefinery, glycoside hydrolases, microalga, secretomic analysis	Microalgal biomass is a promising feedstock for biofuels, feed/food, and biomaterials. However, while production and commercialization of single-product commodities are still not economically viable, obtaining multiple products in a biomass biorefinery faces several techno-economic challenges. The aim of this study was to identify a suitable source of hydrolytic enzymes for algal biomass saccharification. Screening of twenty-six fungal isolates for secreted enzymes activity on Chlamydomonas reinhardtii biomass resulted in the identification of Aspergillus niger IB-34 as a candidate strain. Solid-state fermentation on wheat bran produced the most active enzyme preparations. From sixty-five proteins identified by liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS) (ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD034998) from A. niger IB-34, the majority corresponded to predicted secreted proteins belonging to the Gene Ontology categories of catalytic activity/hydrolase activity on glycosyl and O-glycosyl compounds. Skimmed biomass of biotechnologically relevant strains towards the production of commodities, Chlorella sorokiniana and Scenedesmus obliquus, was fully saccharified after a mild pretreatment at 80 degreesC for 10 min, at a high biomass load of 10% (w/v). The soluble liquid stream, after skimming and saccharification of biomass of both strains, was further converted into ethanol by fermentation with Saccharomyces cerevisiae at a theoretical maximum efficiency, in a separated saccharification and fermentation assays. The resulting insoluble protein, after biomass skimming with an organic solvent and enzymatic saccharification, was highly digestible in an in vitro digestion assay. Proof of concept is presented for an enzyme-assisted biomass biorefinery recovering 81% of the main biomass fractions in a likely suitable form for the conversion of lipids and carbohydrates into biofuels and proteins into feed/food. KEY POINTS: * Twenty-six fungal extracts were analyzed for saccharification of microalgal biomass. * Skimmed biomass was fully enzymatically saccharified and fermented into ethanol. * Up to 81% recovery of biomass fractions suitable for biofuels and feed/food.
PXD034979	36528842	An economic and robust TMT labeling approach for high throughput proteomic and metaproteomic analysis. 	Microbiota biobanking using ice recrystalization inhibitor	biobanking, metaproteomics, microbiome	Multiplexed quantitative proteomics using tandem mass tag (TMT) is increasingly used in -omic study of complex samples. While TMT-based proteomics has the advantages of the higher quantitative accuracy, fewer missing values, and reduced instrument analysis time, it is limited by the additional reagent cost. In addition, current TMT labeling workflows involve repeated small volume pipetting of reagents in volatile solvents, which may increase the sample-to-sample variations and is not readily suitable for high throughput applications. In this study, we demonstrated that the TMT labeling procedures could be streamlined by using pre-aliquoted dry TMT reagents in a 96 well plate or 12-tube strip. As little as 50 mug dry TMT per channel was used to label 6-12 mug peptides, yielding high TMT labeling efficiency (~99%) in both microbiome and mammalian cell line samples. We applied this workflow to analyze 97 samples in a study to evaluate whether ice recrystallization inhibitors improve the cultivability and activity of frozen microbiota. The results demonstrated tight sample clustering corresponding to groups and consistent microbiome responses to prebiotic treatments. This study supports the use of TMT reagents that are pre-aliquoted, dried, and stored for robust quantitative proteomics and metaproteomics in high throughput applications.
PXD037828	36529209	Comparative proteomics of whey proteins: New insights into quantitative differences between bovine, goat and camel species. 	Comparative proteomics of whey proteins: new insights into quantitative differences between bovine, goat and camel species	different species, label free proteomics, whey proteins	Whey proteins are the leading proteins class in milk and play an essential role in the immune defense of neonatal mammals. The aim of this study was to analyze whey proteins in bovine, goat and camel milk by label free proteomics techniques. Finally, 840 proteins were identified, which considerably increasing the number of whey proteins identified in these species. The results of the PCA revealed significant differences in whey proteome patterns between bovine, goat and camel milk. Proteins such as PAEP, CST3, SERPING1, CTSB and GLG1 play an important role as markers in the classification of bovine, goat and camel milk. Statistical analysis showed that the relative abundances of many whey proteins such as ALB, LALBA, LTF and LPO were significantly different among different species. GO and KEGG functional analysis have shown that while the distribution of biological functions involved in whey proteins was relatively similar across species, they differed in terms of protein quantity. These data shed light on the quantitative differences and potential physiological functions of whey proteins across species, and may point the way to the production of specific functional whey proteins.
PXD037555	36531135	Endothelin-1, over-expressed in SOD1(G93A) mice, aggravates injury of NSC34-hSOD1G93A cells through complicated molecular mechanism revealed by quantitative proteomics analysis. 	Endothelin-1, over-expressed in SOD1G93A mice, aggravates injury of NSC34-hSOD1G93A cells through complicated molecular mechanism revealed by quantitative proteomics analysis	LC-MS/MS Analysis	Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a secreted signaling peptide, is suggested to be involved in multiple actions in various tissues including the brain, but its role in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains unknown. In this study, we detected the expression changes as well as the cellular localization of ET-1, endothelin A (ET-A) and endothelin B (ET-B) receptors in spinal cord of transgenic SOD1-G93A (TgSOD1-G93A) mice, which showed that the two ET receptors (ET-Rs) expressed mainly on neurons and decreased as the disease progressed especially ET-B, while ET-1 expression was up-regulated and primarily localized on astrocytes. We then explored the possible mechanisms underlying the effect of ET-1 on cultured NSC34-hSOD1G93A cell model. ET-1 showed toxic effect on motor neurons (MNs), which can be rescued by the selective ET-A receptor antagonist BQ-123 or ET-B receptor antagonist BQ-788, suggesting that clinically used ET-Rs pan-antagonist could be a potential strategy for ALS. Using proteomic analysis, we revealed that 110 proteins were differentially expressed in NSC34-hSOD1G93A cells after ET-1 treatment, of which 54 were up-regulated and 56 were down-regulated. Bioinformatic analysis showed that the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were primarily enriched in hippo signaling pathway-multiple species, ABC transporters, ErbB signaling pathway and so on. These results provide further insights on the potential roles of ET-1 in ALS and present a new promising therapeutic target to protect MNs of ALS.
PXD035122	36531183	Red blood cell proteomics reveal remnant protein biosynthesis and folding pathways in PIEZO1-related hereditary xerocytosis. 	Proteomic analysis of reticulocytes treated with the PIEZO-1 activator YODA	PIEZO1, mechanotransduction, reticulocytes, xerocytosis	Hereditary xerocytosis is a dominant red cell membrane disorder characterized by an increased leak of potassium from the inside to outside the red blood cell membrane, associated with loss of water leading to red cell dehydration and chronic hemolysis. 90% of cases are related to heterozygous gain of function mutations in PIEZO1, encoding a mechanotransductor that translates a mechanical stimulus into a biological signaling. Data are still required to understand better PIEZO1-HX pathophysiology. Recent studies identified proteomics as an accurate and high-input tool to study erythroid progenitors and circulating red cell physiology. Here, we isolated red blood cells from 5 controls and 5 HX patients carrying an identified and pathogenic PIEZO1 mutation and performed a comparative deep proteomic analysis. A total of 603 proteins were identified among which 56 were differentially expressed (40 over expressed and 16 under expressed) between controls and HX with a homogenous expression profile within each group. We observed relevant modifications in the protein expression profile related to PIEZO1 mutations, identifying two main "knots". The first contained both proteins of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex involved in the assembly of unfolded proteins, and proteins involved in translation. The second contained proteins involved in ubiquitination. Deregulation of proteins involved in protein biosynthesis was also observed in in vitro-produced reticulocytes after Yoda1 exposure. Thus, our work identifies significant changes in the protein content of PIEZO1-HX erythrocytes, revealing a "PIEZO1 signature" and identifying potentially targetable pathways in this disease characterized by a heterogeneous clinical expression and contra-indication of splenectomy.
PXD037055	36531490	Proteomic analysis reveals proteins and pathways associated with declined testosterone production in male obese mice after chronic high-altitude exposure. 	Characteristics of testis proteome changes in male obese mice after hypoxia exposure	hypoxia, mice, obese, testis	Objective: Obesity is common in highland areas owing to lifestyle alterations. There are pieces of evidence to suggest that both obesity and hypoxia may promote oxidative stress, leading to hypogonadism in males. These findings indicate an increased risk of hypogonadism in obese males following hypoxia exposure. However, the mechanisms underlying the disease process remain unclear. The current study aims to explore the mechanism of testosterone production dysfunction in obese male mice exposed to a chronic high-altitude hypoxia environment. Methods: An obese male mouse model was generated by inducing obesity in mice via a high-fat diet for 14 weeks, and the obese mice were then exposed to a high-altitude hypoxia environment for 24 days. Sera and testicular tissues were collected to detect serum lipids, sex hormone level, and testicular oxidative stress indicators. Morphological examination was performed to assess pathological alterations in testicular tissues and suborganelles in leydig cells. Proteomic alterations in testicular tissues were investigated using quantitative proteomics in Obese/Control and Obese-Hypoxia/Obese groups. Results: The results showed that chronic high-altitude hypoxia exposure aggravated low testosterone production in obese male mice accompanied by increased testicular oxidative stress and histological damages. In total, 363 and 242 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the two comparison groups, Obese/Control and Obese-Hypoxia/Obese, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis demonstrated that several significant functional terms and pathways related to testosterone production were altered in the two comparison groups. These included cholesterol metabolism, steroid hormone biosynthesis, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway, oxidative stress responses, as well as retinol metabolism. Finally, 10 representative DEPs were selected for parallel reaction monitoring verification. Among them, StAR, DHCR7, NSDHL, CYP51A1, FDPS, FDX1, CYP11A1, ALDH1A1, and GPX3 were confirmed to be downregulated in the two groups. Conclusions: Chronic hypoxia exposure could exacerbate low testosterone production in obese male mice by influencing the expression of key proteins involved in steroid hormone biosynthesis, cholesterol biosynthesis, oxidative stress responses and retinol metabolism.
PXD037465	36532352	Effects of pre-partum dietary crude protein level on colostrum fat globule membrane proteins and the performance of Hu ewes and their offspring. 	iTRAQ-based proteomic study investigate the effects of pre-partum dietary crude protein level on colostrum fat globule membrane proteins	colostrum, colostrum fat globule membrane proteins, iTRAQ	Dietary proteins play important roles in the growth and reproduction of sheep, and the ewe's demand for proteins increases dramatically during late pregnancy. This research aimed to investigate the effect of dietary crude protein (CP) levels during late pregnancy on colostrum fat globule membrane (MFGM) protein and the growth performance of Hu sheep and their offspring, and provide a reference for the protein intake of ewes during late pregnancy. A total of 108 multiparous Hu sheep (45.6 +/- 1.18 kg) were selected for this study, then 60 pregnant ewes confirmed by B-scan ultrasonography were randomly divided into three treatments (20 ewes/treatment) and fed by total mixed ration pellet with CP levels at 9.00% (LP), 12.0% (MP), and 15.0% (HP) during late pregnancy, respectively. The weight and dry matter intake of ewes during late pregnancy were recorded to calculate the average daily gain (ADG) and feed conversion ratio (FCR). Twin lambs were weighed on days 0, 7, 14, 30, 60, and 180 after birth to calculate ADG. Meanwhile, the colostrum of ewes was collected within 12 h after delivery. The colostrum MFGM proteins were identified and quantified by the isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry methods. In addition, biological functions of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were annotated by Gene Ontology annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis. The results revealed that a 15.0% CP level had significant effects on the BW of lambs on days 0, 7, and 30 (P < 0.05). Notably, a total of 1,529 MFGM proteins were identified and 286 DEPs were found among three treatments. Functional analysis showed that DEPs were mainly involved in cell growth, differentiation, and tissue repair, and involved in metabolic pathways, such as the porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism pathways. In this study, lambs in HP treatment had better growth performance; moreover, dietary 15.0% CP level also affected the colostrum MFGM proteins composition of Hu ewes. These observations can facilitate future studies on the feeding regimen of ewes during late pregnancy.
PXD036606	36532468	Physiological and comparative proteomic characterization of Desulfolithobacter dissulfuricans gen. nov., sp. nov., a novel mesophilic, sulfur-disproportionating chemolithoautotroph from a deep-sea hydrothermal vent. 	Whole-cell proteome of Desulfolithobacter dissulfuricans strain GF1	bacteria, whole-cell proteome	In deep-sea hydrothermal environments, inorganic sulfur compounds are important energy substrates for sulfur-oxidizing, -reducing, and -disproportionating microorganisms. Among these, sulfur-disproportionating bacteria have been poorly understood in terms of ecophysiology and phylogenetic diversity. Here, we isolated and characterized a novel mesophilic, strictly chemolithoautotrophic, diazotrophic sulfur-disproportionating bacterium, designated strain GF1(T), from a deep-sea hydrothermal vent chimney at the Suiyo Seamount in the Izu-Bonin Arc, Japan. Strain GF1(T) disproportionated elemental sulfur, thiosulfate, and tetrathionate in the presence of ferrihydrite. The isolate also grew by respiratory hydrogen oxidation coupled to sulfate reduction. Phylogenetic and physiological analyses support that strain GF1(T) represents the type strain of a new genus and species in the family Desulfobulbaceae, for which the name Desulfolithobacter dissulfuricans gen. nov. sp. nov. is proposed. Proteomic analysis revealed that proteins related to tetrathionate reductase were specifically and abundantly produced when grown via thiosulfate disproportionation. In addition, several proteins possibly involved in thiosulfate disproportionation, including those encoded by the YTD gene cluster, were also found. The overall findings pointed to a possible diversity of sulfur-disproportionating bacteria in hydrothermal systems and provided a refined picture of microbial sulfur disproportionation.
PXD036636	36533174	Proteomics analysis of the p.G849D variant in neurexin 2 alpha may reveal insight into Parkinson's disease pathobiology. 	Proteomics analysis of the p.G849D variant in neurexin 2 alpha may reveal insight into Parkinson's disease pathobiology	Parkinson's disease, mitochondrial dysfunction, neurexin 2alpha (NRXN2), pG849D, ribosomal functioning, synaptic translation	Parkinson's disease (PD), the fastest-growing neurological disorder globally, has a complex etiology. A previous study by our group identified the p.G849D variant in neurexin 2 (NRXN2), encoding the synaptic protein, NRXN2alpha, as a possible causal variant of PD. Therefore, we aimed to perform functional studies using proteomics in an attempt to understand the biological pathways affected by the variant. We hypothesized that this may reveal insight into the pathobiology of PD. Wild-type and mutant NRXN2alpha plasmids were transfected into SH-SY5Y cells. Thereafter, total protein was extracted and prepared for mass spectrometry using a Thermo Scientific Fusion mass spectrometer equipped with a Nanospray Flex ionization source. The data were then interrogated against the UniProt H. sapiens database and afterward, pathway and enrichment analyses were performed using in silico tools. Overexpression of the wild-type protein led to the enrichment of proteins involved in neurodegenerative diseases, while overexpression of the mutant protein led to the decline of proteins involved in ribosomal functioning. Thus, we concluded that the wild-type NRXN2alpha may be involved in pathways related to the development of neurodegenerative disorders, and that biological processes related to the ribosome, transcription, and tRNA, specifically at the synapse, could be an important mechanism in PD. Future studies targeting translation at the synapse in PD could therefore provide further information on the pathobiology of the disease.
PXD036250	36533583	Translational control by maternal Nanog promotes oogenesis and early embryonic development. 	Translation control by maternal Nanog promotes oocyte maturation and early embryonic development	Nanog, egg, zebrafish	Many maternal mRNAs are translationally repressed during oocyte development and spatio-temporally activated during early embryogenesis, which is crucial for oocyte and early embryo development. By analyzing maternal mutants of nanog (Mnanog) in zebrafish, we demonstrated that Nanog tightly controls translation of maternal mRNA during oogenesis via transcriptional repression of eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1, like 2 (eef1a1l2). Loss of maternal Nanog led to defects of egg maturation, increased endoplasmic reticulum stress, and an activated unfold protein response, which was caused by elevated translational activity. We further demonstrated that Nanog, as a transcriptional repressor, represses the transcription of eefl1a1l2 by directly binding to the eef1a1l2 promoter in oocytes. More importantly, depletion of eef1a1l2 in nanog mutant females effectively rescued the elevated translational activity in oocytes, oogenesis defects and embryonic defects of Mnanog embryos. Thus, our study demonstrates that maternal Nanog regulates oogenesis and early embryogenesis through translational control of maternal mRNA via a mechanism whereby Nanog acts as a transcriptional repressor to suppress transcription of eef1a1l2.
PXD034096	36535621	Quantitative proteomics profiling of spermatozoa and seminal plasma reveals proteins associated with semen quality in Bos indicus bulls. 	Quantitative proteomics profiling of spermatozoa and seminal plasma reveals proteins associated with semen quality in Bos indicus bulls	Animal reproduction, Bos indicus, Quantitative proteomics, Seminal plasma, Spermatozoa, TMT, Veterinary research	Cattle breeding approaches are an evolving field of research in veterinary science. Certain factors such as Ejaculate Rejection Rate (ERR) pose a limitation to such approaches. In this regard, we sought to investigate the spermatozoa and seminal plasma proteome of Hallikar bulls with low (n = 3) and high (n = 3) ERR. Through the Tandem mass spectrometry approach, we identified a total of 2409 proteins, in which 828 proteins were common in both the semen components, whereas 375 and 378 proteins were unique to spermatozoa and seminal plasma respectively. Tandem mass tags (TMT) based protein quantification resulted in 75 spermatozoal, and 42 seminal plasma proteins being differentially regulated between high and low ERR bulls. Proteins such as SPADH2, TIMP-2, and PLA2G7 which are negative regulators of motility were upregulated in the seminal plasma of high ERR bulls. Proteins such as OAZ3, GPx4, and GSTM3 whose upregulation leads to reduced motility were upregulated in the spermatozoa of high ERR bulls. Caltrin and ADM proteins that enhance sperm motility were downregulated in the seminal plasma of high ERR bulls. The regulation of ACE, a negative regulator of sperm motility was upregulated in both the spermatozoa and seminal plasma of high ERR bulls. SIGNIFICANCE: The saying "Bull is more than half of the herd" signifies the importance of bull in the genetic improvement of the herd. Traditionally used semen quality tests will provide limited information about the potential fertility of bulls. The proteomics approach is a promising omics technology to understand the factors involved in male fertility. The present study identified the spermatozoal and seminal plasma proteins that are differentially regulated between high and low ERR bulls. Sperm motility-associated proteins are differentially regulated. This study if improved further, can be used to develop markers associated with semen quality which is useful for the selection of bulls.
PXD031448	36536122	Small molecule-induced epigenomic reprogramming of APL blasts leading to antiviral-like response and c-MYC downregulation. 	Histone PTMs profiles of maltonis treated cells	histone post-translational modifications	Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is an aggressive subtype of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in which the PML/RARalpha fusion protein exerts oncogenic activities by recruiting repressive complexes to the promoter of specific target genes. Other epigenetic perturbations, as alterations of histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation (H3K9me3), have been frequently found in AMLs and are associated with leukemogenesis and leukemia progression. Here, we characterized the epigenomic effects of maltonis, a novel maltol-derived molecule, in APL cells. We demonstrate that maltonis treatments induce a profound remodulation of the histone code, reducing global H3K9me3 signal and modulating other histone post-translational modifications. Transcriptomic and epigenomic analyses revealed that maltonis exposure induces changes of genes expression associated with a genomic redistribution of histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) and lysine 27 acetylation (H3K27ac). Upregulation of interferon alpha and gamma response and downregulation of c-MYC target genes, in function of c-MYC reduced expression (monitored in all the hematopoietic neoplasms tested), represent the most significant modulated pathways. These data demonstrate the ability of maltonis to epigenetically reprogram the gene expression profile of APL cells, inducing an intriguing antiviral-like response, concomitantly with the downregulation of c-MYC-related pathways, thus making it an attractive candidate for antileukemic therapy.
PXD032716	36537190	Cdk1-mediated threonine phosphorylation of Sam68 modulates its RNA binding, alternative splicing activity and cellular functions. 	Cdk1-mediated threonine phosphorylation of Sam68 modulates its RNA binding, alternative splicing activity, and cellular functions	KHDRBS1, Sam68, Warwick_RTP	Sam68, also known as KHDRBS1, is a member of the STAR family of proteins that directly link signal transduction with post-transcriptional gene regulation. Sam68 controls the alternative splicing of many oncogenic proteins and its role is modulated by post-translational modifications, including serine/threonine phosphorylation, that differ at various stages of the cell cycle. However, the molecular basis and mechanisms of these modulations remain largely unknown. Here, we combined mass spectrometry, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and cell biology techniques to provide a comprehensive post-translational modification mapping of Sam68 at different stages of the cell cycle in HEK293 and HCT116 cells. We established that Sam68 is specifically phosphorylated at T33 and T317 by Cdk1, and demonstrated that these phosphorylation events reduce the binding of Sam68 to RNA, control its cellular localization and reduce its alternative splicing activity, leading to a reduction in the induction of apoptosis and an increase in the proliferation of HCT116 cells.
PXD037132	36537219	Transposase N-terminal phosphorylation and asymmetric transposon ends inhibit piggyBac transposition in mammalian cells. 	Identification of phosphorylation sites in piggyBac transposase N-terminus	piggyBac, transposition	DNA transposon systems are widely used in mammalian cells for genetic modification experiments, but their regulation remains poorly understood. We used biochemical and cell-based assays together with AlphaFold modeling and rational protein redesign to evaluate aspects of piggyBac transposition including the previously unexplained role of the transposase N-terminus and the need for asymmetric transposon ends for cellular activity. We found that phosphorylation at predicted casein kinase II sites in the transposase N-terminus inhibits transposition, most likely by preventing transposase-DNA interactions. Deletion of the region containing these sites releases inhibition thereby enhancing activity. We also found that the N-terminal domain promotes transposase dimerization in the absence of transposon DNA. When the N-terminus is deleted, the transposase gains the ability to carry out transposition using symmetric transposon left ends. This novel activity is also conferred by appending a second C-terminal domain. When combined, these modifications together result in a transposase that is highly active when symmetric transposon ends are used. Our results demonstrate that transposase N-terminal phosphorylation and the requirement for asymmetric transposon ends both negatively regulate piggyBac transposition in mammalian cells. These novel insights into the mechanism and structure of the piggyBac transposase expand its potential use for genomic applications.
PXD025739	36537238	CHD8 suppression impacts on histone H3 lysine 36 trimethylation and alters RNA alternative splicing. 	CHD8 Suppression Impacts on Histone H3 Lysine 36 Trimethylation and Alters RNA Alternative Splicing	Alternative Splicing, Autism Spectrum Disorder, CHD8, Chromatin, H3K36me3	Disruptive mutations in the chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 8 gene (CHD8) have been recurrently associated with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). Here we investigated how chromatin reacts to CHD8 suppression by analyzing a panel of histone modifications in induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neural progenitors. CHD8 suppression led to significant reduction (47.82%) in histone H3K36me3 peaks at gene bodies, particularly impacting on transcriptional elongation chromatin states. H3K36me3 reduction specifically affects highly expressed, CHD8-bound genes and correlates with altered alternative splicing patterns of 462 genes implicated in 'regulation of RNA splicing' and 'mRNA catabolic process'. Mass spectrometry analysis uncovered a novel interaction between CHD8 and the splicing regulator heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L (hnRNPL), providing the first mechanistic insights to explain the CHD8 suppression-derived splicing phenotype, partly implicating SETD2, a H3K36me3 methyltransferase. In summary, our results point toward broad molecular consequences of CHD8 suppression, entailing altered histone deposition/maintenance and RNA processing regulation as important regulatory processes in ASD.
PXD038261	36537797	OTU7B Modulates the Mosquito Immune Response to Beauveria bassiana Infection via Deubiquitination of the Toll Adaptor TRAF4. 	OTU7B modulates the mosquito immune response to Beauveria bassiana infection via deubiquitination of the Toll adaptor TRAF4	innate immunity	The Aedes aegypti mosquito transmits devastating flaviviruses, such as Zika, dengue, and yellow fever viruses. For more effective control of the vector, the pathogenicity of Beauveria bassiana, a fungus commonly used for biological control of pest insects, may be enhanced based on in-depth knowledge of molecular interactions between the pathogen and its host. Here, we identified a mechanism employed by B. bassiana, which efficiently blocks the Ae. aegypti antifungal immune response by a protease that contains an ovarian tumor (OTU) domain. RNA-sequencing analysis showed that the depletion of OTU7B significantly upregulates the mRNA level of immunity-related genes after a challenge of the fungus. CRISPR-Cas9 knockout of OTU7B conferred a higher resistance of mosquitoes to the fungus B. bassiana. OTU7B suppressed activation of the immune response by preventing nuclear translocation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor Rel1, a mosquito orthologue of Drosophila Dorsal. Further studies identified tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 4 (TRAF4) as an interacting protein of OTU7B. TRAF4-deficient mosquitoes were more sensitive to fungal infection, indicating TRAF4 to be the adaptor protein that activates the Toll pathway. TRAF4 is K63-link polyubiquitinated at K338 residue upon immune challenge. However, OTU7B inhibited the immune signaling by enzymatically removing the polyubiquitin chains of mosquito TRAF4. Thus, this study has uncovered a novel mechanism of fungal action against the host innate immunity, providing a platform for further improvement of fungal pathogen effectiveness. IMPORTANCE Insects use innate immunity to defend against microbial infection. The Toll pathway is a major immune signaling pathway that is associated with the antifungal immune response in mosquitoes. Our study identified a fungal-induced deubiquitinase, OTU7B, which, when knocked out, promotes the translocation of the NF-kappaB factor Rel1 into the nucleus and confers enhanced resistance to fungal infection. We further found the counterpart of OTU7B, TRAF4, which is a component of the Toll pathway and acts as an adaptor protein. OTU7B enzymatically removes K63-linked polyubiquitin chains from TRAF4. The immune response is suppressed, and mosquitoes become much more sensitive to the Beauveria bassiana infection. Our findings reveal a novel mechanism of fungal action against the host innate immunity.
PXD038602	36541409	Glycosylation Profiling of the Neoplastic Biomarker Alpha Fetoprotein through Intact Mass Protein Analysis. 	Glycosylation Profiling of Neoplastic Biomarker Alpha Fetoprotein Through Intact Mass Protein Analysis	hepatocellular carcinoma, intact proteins	Elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) can be observed in liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The glycosylation patterns of AFP have been shown to differentiate these conditions, with AFP glycoforms with core fucosylation (AFP-L3) serving as a malignancy risk predictor for HCC. We have developed a method to detect endogenously present AFP proteoforms and to quantify the relative abundance of AFP-L3 glycoforms (AFP-L3%) in serum samples. This method consists of immune enrichment of endogenous AFP, followed by liquid chromatography coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) intact protein analysis of AFP. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD038606. Based on the AFP profiles in authentic patient serum samples, we have identified that the frequently observed AFP glycoforms without core fucosylation (AFP-L1) are G2S2 and G2S1, and common AFP-L3 glycoforms are G2FS1 and G2FS2. The intensities of glycoforms in the deconvoluted spectrum are used to quantify AFP-L3% in each sample. The method evaluation included reproducibility, specificity, dilution integrity, and comparison of AFP-L3% with a lectin-binding gel shift electrophoresis (GSE) assay. The AFP-L1 and AFP-L3 proteoforms were reproducibly identified in multiple patient serum samples, resulting in reproducible AFP-L3% quantification. There was considerable agreement between the developed LC-HRMS and commercial GSE methods when quantifying AFP-L3% (Pearson r = 0.63) with a proportional bias.
PXD036134	36541440	MS-DAP Platform for Downstream Data Analysis of Label-Free Proteomics Uncovers Optimal Workflows in Benchmark Data Sets and Increased Sensitivity in Analysis of Alzheimer's Biomarker Data. 	MS-DAP platform for label-free proteomics uncovers optimal workflows in benchmark datasets and increased sensitivity in analysis of Alzheimer's biomarker data	Alzheimer's disease, benchmarking, bioinformatics, software	In the rapidly moving proteomics field, a diverse patchwork of data analysis pipelines and algorithms for data normalization and differential expression analysis is used by the community. We generated a mass spectrometry downstream analysis pipeline (MS-DAP) that integrates both popular and recently developed algorithms for normalization and statistical analyses. Additional algorithms can be easily added in the future as plugins. MS-DAP is open-source and facilitates transparent and reproducible proteome science by generating extensive data visualizations and quality reporting, provided as standardized PDF reports. Second, we performed a systematic evaluation of methods for normalization and statistical analysis on a large variety of data sets, including additional data generated in this study, which revealed key differences. Commonly used approaches for differential testing based on moderated t-statistics were consistently outperformed by more recent statistical models, all integrated in MS-DAP. Third, we introduced a novel normalization algorithm that rescues deficiencies observed in commonly used normalization methods. Finally, we used the MS-DAP platform to reanalyze a recently published large-scale proteomics data set of CSF from AD patients. This revealed increased sensitivity, resulting in additional significant target proteins which improved overlap with results reported in related studies and includes a large set of new potential AD biomarkers in addition to previously reported.
PXD037871	36541793	Regulation of Mitochondrial Energy Metabolism by Glutaredoxin 5 in the Apicomplexan Parasite Neospora caninum. 	LC-MS hits of NcGrx5 proximal proteins by using BioID	BioID, NcGrx5, proximal proteins	Iron-sulfur [Fe-S] clusters are one of the most ancient and functionally versatile natural biosynthetic prosthetic groups required by various proteins involved in important metabolic processes, including the oxidative phosphorylation of proteins, electron transfer, energy metabolism, DNA/RNA metabolism, and protein translation. Apicomplexan parasites harbor two possible [Fe-S] cluster assembly pathways: the iron-sulfur cluster (ISC) pathway in the mitochondria and the sulfur formation (SUF) pathway in the apicoplast. Glutaredoxin 5 (GRX5) is involved in the ISC pathway in many eukaryotes. However, the cellular roles of GRX5 in apicomplexan parasites remain to be explored. Here, we showed that Neospora caninum mitochondrial GRX5 (NcGRX5) deficiency resulted in aberrant mitochondrial ultrastructure and led to a significant reduction in parasite proliferation and virulence in mice, suggesting that NcGRX5 is important for parasite growth in vitro and in vivo. Comparative proteomics and energy metabolomics were used to investigate the effects of NcGRX5 on parasite growth and mitochondrial metabolism. The data showed that disruption of NcGRX5 downregulated the expression of mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) and tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) cycle proteins and reduced the corresponding metabolic fluxes. Subsequently, we identified 23 proteins that might be adjacent to or interact with NcGRX5 by proximity-based protein labeling techniques and proteomics. The interactions between NcGRX5 and two iron-sulfur cluster synthesis proteins (ISCS and ISCU1) were further confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation assays. In conclusion, NcGRX5 is important for parasite growth and may regulate mitochondrial energy metabolism by mediating the biosynthesis of iron-sulfur clusters. IMPORTANCE Iron-sulfur [Fe-S] clusters are among the oldest and most ubiquitous prosthetic groups, and they are required for a variety of proteins involved in important metabolic processes. The intracellular parasites in the phylum Apicomplexa, including Plasmodium, Toxoplasma gondii, and Neospora caninum, harbor the ISC pathway involved in the biosynthesis of [Fe-S] clusters in mitochondria. These cofactors are required for a variety of important biological processes. However, little is known about the role of oxidoreductase glutaredoxins in these parasites. Our data indicate that NcGRX5 is an essential protein that plays multiple roles in several biological processes of N. caninum. NcGRX5 interacts with the mitochondrial iron-sulfur cluster synthesis proteins ISCS and ISCU1 and also regulates parasite energy metabolism. These data provide an insider's view of the metabolic regulation and iron-sulfur cluster assembly processes in the apicomplexan parasites.
PXD029703	36542699	Deep top-down proteomics revealed significant proteoform-level differences between metastatic and nonmetastatic colorectal cancer cells. 	Qualitative and quantitative top-down proteomics of human colorectal cancer cell lines identified 23000 proteoforms and revealed drastic proteoform-level differences between metastatic and non-metastatic cancer cells	cancer metastasis, colorectal cancer, proteoform, top-down proteomics	Understanding cancer metastasis at the proteoform level is crucial for discovering previously unknown protein biomarkers for cancer diagnosis and drug development. We present the first top-down proteomics (TDP) study of a pair of isogenic human nonmetastatic and metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines (SW480 and SW620). We identified 23,622 proteoforms of 2332 proteins from the two cell lines, representing nearly fivefold improvement in the number of proteoform identifications (IDs) compared to previous TDP datasets of human cancer cells. We revealed substantial differences between the SW480 and SW620 cell lines regarding proteoform and single amino acid variant (SAAV) profiles. Quantitative TDP unveiled differentially expressed proteoforms between the two cell lines, and the corresponding genes had diversified functions and were closely related to cancer. Our study represents a pivotal advance in TDP toward the characterization of human proteome in a proteoform-specific manner, which will transform basic and translational biomedical research.
PXD034790	36542723	Native holdup (nHU) to measure binding affinities from cell extracts. 	Native holdup (nHU) to measure binding affinities from cell extracts	native holdup, protein interaction	Characterizing macromolecular interactions is essential for understanding cellular processes, yet most methods currently used to detect protein interactions from cells are qualitative. Here, we introduce the native holdup (nHU) approach to estimate equilibrium binding constants of protein interactions directly from cell extracts. Compared to other pull-down-based assays, nHU requires less sample preparation and can be coupled to any analytical methods as readouts, such as Western blotting or mass spectrometry. We use nHU to explore interactions of SNX27, a cargo adaptor of the retromer complex and find good agreement between in vitro affinities and those measured directly from cell extracts using nHU. We discuss the strengths and limitations of nHU and provide simple protocols that can be implemented in most laboratories.
PXD029736	36543137	The Golgi-resident protein ACBD3 concentrates STING at ER-Golgi contact sites to drive export from the ER. 	LFQ of GFP-Trap IP-MS from hTBJ1 cells expressing EGFP-mSTING	EGFP, GFP-Trap, STING, cGAMP	STING, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident receptor for cyclic di-nucleotides (CDNs), is essential for innate immune responses. Upon CDN binding, STING moves from the ER to the Golgi, where it activates downstream type-I interferon (IFN) signaling. General cargo proteins exit from the ER via concentration at ER exit sites. However, the mechanism of STING concentration is poorly understood. Here, we visualize the ER exit sites of STING by blocking its transport at low temperature or by live-cell imaging with the cell-permeable ligand bis-(piv)SATE-2'F-c-di-dAMP, which we have developed. After ligand binding, STING forms punctate foci at non-canonical ER exit sites. Unbiased proteomic screens and super-resolution microscopy show that the Golgi-resident protein ACBD3/GCP60 recognizes and concentrates ligand-bound STING at specialized ER-Golgi contact sites. Depletion of ACBD3 impairs STING ER-to-Golgi trafficking and type-I IFN responses. Our results identify the ACBD3-mediated non-canonical cargo concentration system that drives the ER exit of STING.
PXD033732	36543832	Anastellin impacts on the processing of extracellular matrix fibronectin and stimulates release of cytokines from coronary artery smooth muscle cells. 	Anastellin impacts on the processing of extracellular matrix and stimulates the release of cytokines from smooth muscle cells	Anastellin, extracellular matrix, fibronectin, smooth muscle cells	Anastellin, a recombinant protein fragment from the first type III module of fibronectin, mimics a partially unfolded intermediate implicated in the assembly of fibronectin fibrils. Anastellin influences the structure of fibronectin and initiates in vitro fibrillation, yielding "superfibronectin", a polymer with enhanced cell-adhesive properties. This ability is absent in an anastellin double mutant, L37AY40A. Here we demonstrate that both wild-type and L37AY40A anastellin affect fibronectin processing within the extracellular matrix (ECM) of smooth muscle cells. Fibronectin fibrils are diminished in the ECM from cells treated with anastellin, but are partially rescued by supplementation with plasma fibronectin in cell media. Proteomic analyses reveal that anastellin also impacts on the processing of other ECM proteins, with increased collagen and decreased laminin detected in media from cells exposed to wild-type anastellin. Moreover, both anastellin forms stimulate release of inflammatory cytokines, including interleukin 6. At the molecular level, L37AY40A does not exhibit major perturbations of structural features relative to wild-type anastellin, though the mutant showed differences in heparin binding characteristics. These findings indicate that wild-type and L37AY40A anastellin share similar molecular features but elicit slightly different, but partially overlapping, responses in smooth muscle cells resulting in altered secretion of cytokines and proteins involved in ECM processing.
PXD031873	36544019	Inheritance of paternal DNA damage by histone-mediated repair restriction. 	Linker histone H1-mediates transgenerational genome instability upon paternal DNA damage	DNA damage, epigenetics, paternal inheritance.	How paternal exposure to ionizing radiation affects genetic inheritance and disease risk in the offspring has been a long-standing question in radiation biology. In humans, nearly 80% of transmitted mutations arise in the paternal germline(1), but the transgenerational effects of ionizing radiation exposure has remained controversial and the mechanisms are unknown. Here we show that in sex-separated Caenorhabditis elegans strains, paternal, but not maternal, exposure to ionizing radiation leads to transgenerational embryonic lethality. The offspring of irradiated males displayed various genome instability phenotypes, including DNA fragmentation, chromosomal rearrangement and aneuploidy. Paternal DNA double strand breaks were repaired by maternally provided error-prone polymerase theta-mediated end joining. Mechanistically, we show that depletion of an orthologue of human histone H1.0, HIS-24, or the heterochromatin protein HPL-1, could significantly reverse the transgenerational embryonic lethality. Removal of HIS-24 or HPL-1 reduced histone 3 lysine 9 dimethylation and enabled error-free homologous recombination repair in the germline of the F1 generation from ionizing radiation-treated P0 males, consequently improving the viability of the F2 generation. This work establishes the mechanistic underpinnings of the heritable consequences of paternal radiation exposure on the health of offspring, which may lead to congenital disorders and cancer in humans.
PXD035084	36544142	A combination of molecular and clinical parameters provides a new strategy for high-grade serous ovarian cancer patient management. 	A combination of molecular and clinical parameters provides a new strategy for high-grade serous ovarian cancer patient management	ovarian cancer	BACKGROUND: High-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) is the most common and deadly subtype of ovarian cancer. Although most patients will initially respond to first-line treatment with a combination of surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy, up to a quarter will be resistant to treatment. We aimed to identify a new strategy to improve HGSC patient management at the time of cancer diagnosis (HGSC-1LTR). METHODS: A total of 109 ready-available formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded HGSC tissues obtained at the time of HGSC diagnosis were selected for proteomic analysis. Clinical data, treatment approach and outcomes were collected for all patients. An initial discovery cohort (n = 21) were divided into chemoresistant and chemosensitive groups and evaluated using discovery mass-spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics. Proteins showing differential abundance between groups were verified in a verification cohort (n = 88) using targeted MS-based proteomics. A logistic regression model was used to select those proteins able to correctly classify patients into chemoresistant and chemosensitive. The classification performance of the protein and clinical data combinations were assessed through the generation of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. RESULTS: Using the HGSC-1LTR strategy we have identified a molecular signature (TKT, LAMC1 and FUCO) that combined with ready available clinical data (patients' age, menopausal status, serum CA125 levels, and treatment approach) is able to predict patient response to first-line treatment with an AUC: 0.82 (95% CI 0.72-0.92). CONCLUSIONS: We have established a new strategy that combines molecular and clinical parameters to predict the response to first-line treatment in HGSC patients (HGSC-1LTR). This strategy can allow the identification of chemoresistance at the time of diagnosis providing the optimization of therapeutic decision making and the evaluation of alternative treatment strategies. Thus, advancing towards the improvement of patient outcome and the individualization of HGSC patients' care.
PXD031135	36544284	Retinal pigment epithelium extracellular vesicles are potent inducers of age-related macular degeneration disease phenotype in the outer retina. 	Retinal pigment epithelium extracellular vesicles are potent inducers of age-related macular degeneration disease phenotype in the outer retina	Age-related macular degeneration, Complement factor H, Extracellular vesicles, Human-induced pluripotent stem cells, Retinal pigment epithelium	Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of blindness. Vision loss is caused by the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and photoreceptors atrophy and/or retinal and choroidal angiogenesis. Here we use AMD patient-specific RPE cells with the Complement Factor H Y402H high-risk polymorphism to perform a comprehensive analysis of extracellular vesicles (EVs), their cargo and role in disease pathology. We show that AMD RPE is characterised by enhanced polarised EV secretion. Multi-omics analyses demonstrate that AMD RPE EVs carry RNA, proteins and lipids, which mediate key AMD features including oxidative stress, cytoskeletal dysfunction, angiogenesis and drusen accumulation. Moreover, AMD RPE EVs induce amyloid fibril formation, revealing their role in drusen formation. We demonstrate that exposure of control RPE to AMD RPE apical EVs leads to the acquisition of AMD features such as stress vacuoles, cytoskeletal destabilization and abnormalities in the morphology of the nucleus. Retinal organoid treatment with apical AMD RPE EVs leads to disrupted neuroepithelium and the appearance of cytoprotective alpha B crystallin immunopositive cells, with some co-expressing retinal progenitor cell markers Pax6/Vsx2, suggesting injury-induced regenerative pathways activation. These findings indicate that AMD RPE EVs are potent inducers of AMD phenotype in the neighbouring RPE and retinal cells.
PXD021644	36546012	Juvenile hormone membrane signaling phosphorylates USP and thus potentiates 20-hydroxyecdysone action in Drosophila. 	Juvenile hormone membrane signaling phosphorylates USP to potentiate 20-hydroxyecdysone action and Yorkie activity in Drosophila	20-hydroxyecdysone action, Juvenile hormone, PKC, Phosphoproteomics, Receptor tyrosine kinase, USP, Yorkie activity	Juvenile hormone (JH) and 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) coordinately regulate development and metamorphosis in insects. Two JH intracellular receptors, methoprene-tolerant (Met) and germ-cell expressed (Gce), have been identified in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. To investigate JH membrane signaling pathway without the interference from JH intracellular signaling, we characterized phosphoproteome profiles of the Met gce double mutant in the absence or presence of JH in both chronic and acute phases. Functioning through a potential receptor tyrosine kinase and phospholipase C pathway, JH membrane signaling activated protein kinase C (PKC) which phosphorylated ultraspiracle (USP) at Ser35, the PKC phosphorylation site required for the maximal action of 20E through its nuclear receptor complex EcR-USP. The usp(S35A) mutant, in which Ser was replaced with Ala at position 35 by genome editing, showed decreased expression of Halloween genes that are responsible for ecdysone biosynthesis and thus attenuated 20E signaling that delayed developmental timing. The usp(S35A) mutant also showed lower Yorkie activity that reduced body size. Altogether, JH membrane signaling phosphorylates USP at Ser35 and thus potentiates 20E action that regulates the normal fly development. This study helps better understand the complex JH signaling network.
PXD024067	36546462	Long non-coding RNA Neat1 and paraspeckle components are translational regulators in hypoxia. 	Long non-coding RNA Neat1 is a key of translational regulator in hypoxia	Label-free quantitative proteomics, cardiomyocyte, hypoxia, nanoLC-MS/MS, translational control	Internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs) drive translation initiation during stress. In response to hypoxia, (lymph)angiogenic factors responsible for tissue revascularization in ischemic diseases are induced by the IRES-dependent mechanism. Here, we searched for IRES trans-acting factors (ITAFs) active in early hypoxia in mouse cardiomyocytes. Using knock-down and proteomics approaches, we show a link between a stressed-induced nuclear body, the paraspeckle, and IRES-dependent translation. Furthermore, smiFISH experiments demonstrate the recruitment of IRES-containing mRNA into paraspeckle during hypoxia. Our data reveal that the long non-coding RNA Neat1, an essential paraspeckle component, is a key translational regulator, active on IRESs of (lymph)angiogenic and cardioprotective factor mRNAs. In addition, paraspeckle proteins p54(nrb) and PSPC1 as well as nucleolin and RPS2, two p54(nrb)-interacting proteins identified by mass spectrometry, are ITAFs for IRES subgroups. Paraspeckle thus appears as a platform to recruit IRES-containing mRNAs and possibly host IRESome assembly. Polysome PCR array shows that Neat1 isoforms regulate IRES-dependent translation and, more widely, translation of mRNAs involved in stress response.
PXD037900	36547361	Identification of the Collagen Types Essential for Mammalian Breast Acinar Structures. 	Proteomics of Human Breast-TMG LC-MS/MS	Human Breast, Tissue Matrix Gel	Modeling human breast tissue architecture is essential to study the pathophysiological conditions of the breast. We report that normal mammary epithelial cells grown in human breast extracellular matrix (ECM) hydrogel formed acini structurally similar to those of human and pig mammary tissues. Type I, II, III and V collagens were commonly identified in human, pig, and mouse breast ECM. Mammary epithelial cells formed acini on certain types or combinations of the four collagens at normal levels of breast tissue elasticity. Comparison of the collagen species in mouse normal breast and breast tumor ECM revealed common and distinct sets of collagens within the two types of tissues. Elevated expression of collagen type I alpha 1 chain (Col1a1) was found in mouse and human breast cancers. Collagen type XXV alpha 1 chain (Col25a1) was identified in mouse breast tumors but not in normal breast tissues. Our data provide strategies for modeling human breast pathophysiological structures and functions using native tissue-derived hydrogels and offer insight into the potential contributions of different collagen types in breast cancer development.
PXD038002	36547796	Characterization of bovine uterine fluid extracellular vesicles proteomic profiles at follicular and luteal phases of the oestrous cycle. 	Characterization of bovine uterine fluid extracellular vesicles proteomic profiles at follicular and luteal phases of the oestrous cycle	bos taurus	Extracellular vesicles (EV) have been identified in uterine fluid (UF), however the bovine UF-EV profile during different phases of the oestrous cycle has not yet been established. Therefore, we compared the UF-EV, and their protein profile at follicular and luteal phases of the oestrous cycle. UF samples were collected from healthy uteri of six live and six slaughtered cows at follicular or luteal phases. Isolation of EV was performed using tangential flow filtration followed by size exclusion chromatography. EV were characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), fluorescence NTA, zeta potential, and transmission electron microscopy. Mass-spectrometry was used to evaluate EV protein profile from live cows. Particle concentrations (mean +/- SD) were higher (P < 0.05) at follicular than at luteal phase in both live (1.01 x 10(8) +/- 1.66 x 10(7) vs 7.56 x 10(7) +/- 1.80 x 10(7), respectively) and slaughtered cows (1.17 x 10(8) +/- 2.34 x 10(7) vs 9.12 x 10(7) +/- 9.77 x 10(6), respectively). The proportion of fluorescently labelled EV varied significantly between follicular and luteal phases across live (28.9 +/- 1.9% vs 19.3 +/- 2.8%, respectively) and slaughtered cows (26.5 +/- 6.3% vs 27.3 +/- 2 .7%, respectively). In total, 41 EV proteins were differentially expressed between the phases. Some of the proteins were involved in reproductive processes, cell adhesion and proliferation, and cellular metabolic processes. The results indicated differences in bovine UF-EV concentration and protein profile at follicular and luteal phases, which would suggest that EV modulate uterine microenvironment across the oestrous cycle. Further research is needed to understand the effect of EV changes throughout the oestrous cycle.
PXD035014	36548359	Sodium fluoride induces skeletal muscle atrophy via changes in mitochondrial and sarcomeric proteomes. 	A molecular insight into fluoride toxicity in skeletal muscle using invitro C2C12 and in vivo C57BL/6 mice models	Mus musculus, Orbitrap, Skeletal muscle, Sodium fluoride	Sodium Fluoride (NaF) can change the expression of skeletal muscle proteins. Since skeletal muscle is rich in mitochondrial and contractile (sarcomeric) proteins, these proteins are sensitive to the effects of NaF, and the changes are dose-and time-dependent. In the current study, we have analysed the effect of high concentrations of NaF (80ppm) on mouse skeletal muscle at two different time points, i.e., 15 days and 60 days. At the end of the experimental time, the animals were sacrificed, skeletal muscles were isolated, and proteins were extracted and subjected to bioinformatic (Mass Spectrometric) analysis. The results were analysed based on changes in different mitochondrial complexes, contractile (sarcomeric) proteins, 26S proteasome, and ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. The results showed that the mitochondrial proteins of complex I, II, III, IV and V were differentially regulated in the groups treated with 80ppm of NaF for 15 days and 60 days. The network analysis indicated more changes in mitochondrial proteins in the group treated with the higher dose for 15 days rather than 60 days. Furthermore, differential expression of (sarcomeric) proteins, downregulation of 26S proteasome subunits, and differential expression in proteins related to the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway lead to muscle atrophy. The differential expression might be due to the adaptative mechanism to counteract the deleterious effects of NaF on energy metabolism. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD035014.
PXD028220	36548757	Snake Venomics and Antivenomics of Cape Cobra (Naja nivea) from South Africa: Insights into Venom Toxicity and Cross-Neutralization Activity. 	Proteome data of snake venoms_file 11	LCMS/MS, Snake venom, Venom proteome	Naja nivea (Cape Cobra) is endemic to southern Africa. Envenoming by N. nivea is neurotoxic, resulting in fatal paralysis. Its venom composition, however, has not been studied in depth, and specific antivenoms against it remain limited in supply. Applying a protein decomplexation approach, this study unveiled the venom proteome of N. nivea from South Africa. The major components in the venom are cytotoxins/cardiotoxins (~75.6% of total venom proteins) and alpha-neurotoxins (~7.4%), which belong to the three-finger toxin family. Intriguingly, phospholipase A2 (PLA2) was undetected-this is a unique venom phenotype increasingly recognized in the African cobras of the Uraeus subgenus. The work further showed that VINS African Polyvalent Antivenom (VAPAV) exhibited cross-reactivity toward the venom and immunorecognized its toxin fractions. In mice, VAPAV was moderately efficacious in cross-neutralizing the venom lethality with a potency of 0.51 mg/mL (amount of venom completely neutralized per milliliter of antivenom). In the challenge-rescue model, VAPAV prevented death in 75% of experimentally envenomed mice, with slow recovery from neurotoxicity up to 24 h. The finding suggests the potential para-specific utility of VAPAV for N. nivea envenoming, although a higher dose or repeated administration of the antivenom may be required to fully reverse the neurotoxic effect of the venom.
PXD040391	36549117	Targeted AURKA degradation: Towards new therapeutic agents for neuroblastoma. 	Targeted AURKA degradation: Towards new therapeutic agents for neuroblastoma	AURKA, MYCN, Neuroblastoma, PROTAC, Targeted protein degradation	Aurora kinase A (AURKA) is a well-established target in neuroblastoma (NB) due to both its catalytic functions during mitosis and its kinase-independent functions, including stabilization of the key oncoprotein MYCN. We present a structure-activity relationship (SAR) study of MK-5108-derived PROTACs against AURKA by exploring different linker lengths and exit vectors on the thalidomide moiety. PROTAC SK2188 induces the most potent AURKA degradation (DC50,24h 3.9 nM, Dmax,24h 89%) and shows an excellent binding and degradation selectivity profile. Treatment of NGP neuroblastoma cells with SK2188 induced concomitant MYCN degradation, high replication stress/DNA damage levels and apoptosis. Moreover, SK2188 significantly outperforms the parent inhibitor MK-5108 in a cell proliferation screen and patient-derived organoids. Furthermore, altering the attachment point of the PEG linker to the 5-position of thalidomide allowed us to identify a potent AURKA degrader with a linker as short as 2 PEG units. With this, our SAR-study provides interesting lead structures for further optimization and validation of AURKA degradation as a potential therapeutic strategy in neuroblastoma.
PXD025439	36550114	Benchmarking tools for detecting longitudinal differential expression in proteomics data allows establishing a robust reproducibility optimization regression approach. 	Membrane enriched temperature series proteome of Francisella tularensis subspecies novicida in wild type and lipid A acyltransferase null mutants.	Francisella novicida, Francisella tularensis, Francisella tularensis subspecies novicida, Orbitrap Elite, knockout, lipid A, lpxD1, lpxD2, lpxL, temperature series	Quantitative proteomics has matured into an established tool and longitudinal proteomics experiments have begun to emerge. However, no effective, simple-to-use differential expression method for longitudinal proteomics data has been released. Typically, such data is noisy, contains missing values, and has only few time points and biological replicates. To address this need, we provide a comprehensive evaluation of several existing differential expression methods for high-throughput longitudinal omics data and introduce a Robust longitudinal Differential Expression (RolDE) approach. The methods are evaluated using over 3000 semi-simulated spike-in proteomics datasets and three large experimental datasets. In the comparisons, RolDE performs overall best; it is most tolerant to missing values, displays good reproducibility and is the top method in ranking the results in a biologically meaningful way. Furthermore, RolDE is suitable for different types of data with typically unknown patterns in longitudinal expression and can be applied by non-experienced users.
PXD038183	36550366	Venom composition and pain-causing toxins of the Australian great carpenter bee Xylocopa aruana. 	Venom composition and pain-causing toxins of the Australian great carpenter bee Xylocopa aruana	Apidae, Hymenoptera, apamin, carpenter bee, melittin, toxin, xylopin, xylopinin	Most species of bee are capable of delivering a defensive sting which is often painful. A solitary lifestyle is the ancestral state of bees and most extant species are solitary, but information on bee venoms comes predominantly from studies on eusocial species. In this study we investigated the venom composition of the Australian great carpenter bee, Xylocopa aruana Ritsema, 1876. We show that the venom is relatively simple, composed mainly of one small amphipathic peptide (XYTX1-Xa1a), with lesser amounts of an apamin homologue (XYTX2-Xa2a) and a venom phospholipase-A2 (PLA2). XYTX1-Xa1a is homologous to, and shares a similar mode-of-action to melittin and the bombilitins, the major components of the venoms of the eusocial Apis mellifera (Western honeybee) and Bombus spp. (bumblebee), respectively. XYTX1-Xa1a and melittin directly activate mammalian sensory neurons and cause spontaneous pain behaviours in vivo, effects which are potentiated in the presence of venom PLA2. The apamin-like peptide XYTX2-Xa2a was a relatively weak blocker of small conductance calcium-activated potassium (KCa) channels and, like A. mellifera apamin and mast cell-degranulating peptide, did not contribute to pain behaviours in mice. While the composition and mode-of-action of the venom of X. aruana are similar to that of A. mellifera, the greater potency, on mammalian sensory neurons, of the major pain-causing component in A. mellifera venom may represent an adaptation to the distinct defensive pressures on eusocial Apidae.
PXD037791	36550367	Surface protein profiling of prostate-derived extracellular vesicles by mass spectrometry and proximity assays. 	Surface protein profiling  of prostate derived extracellular vesicles	cell supernatant, seminal fluid	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are mediators of intercellular communication and a promising class of biomarkers. Surface proteins of EVs play decisive roles in establishing a connection with recipient cells, and they are putative targets for diagnostic assays. Analysis of the surface proteins can thus both illuminate the biological functions of EVs and help identify potential biomarkers. We developed a strategy combining high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS) and  proximity ligation assays (PLA) to first identify and then validate surface proteins discovered on EVs. We applied our workflow to investigate surface proteins of small EVs found in seminal fluid (SF-sEV). We identified 1,014 surface proteins and verified the presence of a subset of these on the surface of SF-sEVs. Our work demonstrates a general strategy for deep analysis of EVs' surface proteins across patients and pathological conditions, proceeding from unbiased screening by HRMS to ultra-sensitive targeted analyses via PLA.
PXD035322	36550548	Identification of biological pathways and processes regulated by NEK5 in breast epithelial cells via an integrated proteomic approach. 	Identification of biological pathways and processes regulated by NEK5 in breast epithelial cells via an integrated proteomic approach	BioiD, Breast Cancer, NEK5, NEKs, kinase	Specific members of the Nima-Related Kinase (NEK) family have been linked to cancer development and progression, and a role for NEK5, one of the least studied members, in breast cancer has recently been proposed. However, while NEK5 is known to regulate centrosome separation and mitotic spindle assembly, NEK5 signalling mechanisms and function in this malignancy require further characterization. To this end, we established a model system featuring overexpression of NEK5 in the immortalized breast epithelial cell line MCF-10A. MCF-10A cells overexpressing NEK5 exhibited an increase in clonogenicity under monolayer conditions and enhanced acinar size and abnormal morphology in 3D Matrigel culture. Interestingly, they also exhibited a marked reduction in Src activation and downstream signalling. To interrogate NEK5 signalling and function in an unbiased manner, we applied a variety of MS-based proteomic approaches. Determination of the NEK5 interactome by Bio-ID identified a variety of protein classes including the kinesins KIF2C and KIF22, the mitochondrial proteins TFAM, TFB2M and MFN2, RhoH effectors and the negative regulator of Src, CSK. Characterization of proteins and phosphosites modulated upon NEK5 overexpression by global MS-based (phospho)proteomic profiling revealed impact on the cell cycle, DNA synthesis and repair, Rho GTPase signalling, the microtubule cytoskeleton and hemidesmosome assembly. Overall, the study indicates that NEK5 impacts diverse pathways and processes in breast epithelial cells, and likely plays a multifaceted role in breast cancer development and progression. Video Abstract.
PXD038024	36552777	Multiomics Analysis of a DNAH5-Mutated PCD Organoid Model Revealed the Key Role of the TGF-beta/BMP and Notch Pathways in Epithelial Differentiation and the Immune Response in DNAH5-Mutated Patients. 	Multiomics analysis of a DNAH5-mutated PCD organoid model revealed the key role of the TGF-beta/BMP and Notch pathways in epithelial differentiation and the immune response in DNAH5-mutated patients	Airway organoid, DNAH5, Immune response, Multiomics analysis, Primary ciliary dyskinesia	Dynein axonemal heavy chain 5 (DNAH5) is the most mutated gene in primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), leading to abnormal cilia ultrastructure and function. Few studies have revealed the genetic characteristics and pathogenetic mechanisms of PCD caused by DNAH5 mutation. Here, we established a child PCD airway organoid directly from the bronchoscopic biopsy of a patient with the DNAH5 mutation. The motile cilia in the organoid were observed and could be stably maintained for an extended time. We further found abnormal ciliary function and a decreased immune response caused by the DNAH5 mutation through single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) and proteomic analyses. Additionally, the directed induction of the ciliated cells, regulated by TGF-beta/BMP and the Notch pathway, also increased the expression of inflammatory cytokines. Taken together, these results demonstrated that the combination of multiomics analysis and organoid modelling could reveal the close connection between the immune response and the DNAH5 gene.
PXD033166	36553735	Proteomic Profiling of Major Peanut Allergens and Their Post-Translational Modifications Affected by Roasting. 	Qualitative PTM characterization of  raw and roasted peanut allergens from aqueous extracts by HRMS	PTM profiling, allergens, modifications, peanut, roasting	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are covalent changes occurring on amino acid side chains of proteins and yet are neglected structural and functional aspects of protein architecture. The objective was to detect differences in PTM profiles that take place after roasting using open PTM search. We conducted a bottom-up proteomic study to investigate the impact of peanut roasting on readily soluble allergens and their PTM profiles. Proteomic PTM profiling of certain modifications was confirmed by Western blotting with a series of PTM-specific antibodies. In addition to inducing protein aggregation and denaturation, roasting may facilitate change in their PTM pattern and relative profiling. We have shown that Ara h 1 is the most modified major allergen in both samples in terms of modification versatility and extent. The most frequent PTM was methionine oxidation, especially in roasted samples. PTMs uniquely found in roasted samples were hydroxylation (Trp), formylation (Arg/Lys), and oxidation or hydroxylation (Asn). Raw and roasted peanut extracts did not differ in the binding of IgE from the serum of peanut-sensitised individuals done by ELISA. This study provides a better understanding of how roasting impacts the PTM profile of major peanut allergens and provides a good foundation for further exploration of PTMs.
PXD036728	36555496	Specific Post-Translational Modifications of VDAC3 in ALS-SOD1 Model Cells Identified by High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry. 	Specific post-translational modifications of VDAC3 in ALS-SOD1 model cells identified by High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Deamidation, Mass Spectrometry analysis, Orbitrap fusion tribrid, ROS, SOD1., Voltage Dependent Anion Channel, mitochondria, neurodegeneration, post-translational modifications	Damage induced by oxidative stress is a key driver of the selective motor neuron death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mitochondria are among the main producers of ROS, but they also suffer particularly from their harmful effects. Voltage-dependent anion-selective channels (VDACs) are the most represented proteins of the outer mitochondrial membrane where they form pores controlling the permeation of metabolites responsible for mitochondrial functions. For these reasons, VDACs contribute to mitochondrial quality control and the entire energy metabolism of the cell. In this work we assessed in an ALS cell model whether disease-related oxidative stress induces post-translational modifications (PTMs) in VDAC3, a member of the VDAC family of outer mitochondrial membrane channel proteins, known for its role in redox signaling. At this end, protein samples enriched in VDACs were prepared from mitochondria of an ALS model cell line, NSC34 expressing human SOD1G93A, and analyzed by nUHPLC/High-Resolution nESI-MS/MS. Specific over-oxidation, deamidation, succination events were found in VDAC3 from ALS-related NSC34-SOD1G93A but not in non-ALS cell lines. Additionally, we report evidence that some PTMs may affect VDAC3 functionality. In particular, deamidation of Asn215 alone alters single channel behavior in artificial membranes. Overall, our results suggest modifications of VDAC3 that can impact its protective role against ROS, which is particularly important in the ALS context. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036728.
PXD036961	36557634	Generation and Utilization of a Monoclonal Antibody against Hepatitis B Virus Core Protein for a Comprehensive Interactome Analysis. 	Generation and utilization of a monoclonal antibody against hepatitis B virus core protein for a comprehensive interactome analysis	Hepatitis B virus, Hypoxia, Interactome analysis, Monoclonal antibody, antibody-based in situ biotinylation	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) core antigen (HBc) is a structural protein that forms the viral nucleocapsid and is involved in various steps of the viral replication cycle, but its role in the pathogenesis of HBV infection is still elusive. In this study, we generated a mouse monoclonal antibody (mAb) against HBc and used it in antibody-based in situ biotinylation analysis in order to identify host proteins that interact with HBc. HBc antigen was produced with a wheat germ cell-free protein synthesis system and used to immunize mice. Among the established hybridoma clones, a single clone (mAb #7) was selected and further characterized for its ability in the antibody-based in situ biotinylation analysis to collect host proteins that are in the vicinity of HBc. Using mass spectrometry, we identified 215 HBc-interacting host proteins, three of which bind HBc most significantly under hypoxic conditions. Our results indicate that mAb #7 can be used to systematically identify host proteins that interact with HBc under pathophysiological conditions, and thus may be useful to explore the molecular pathways involved in HBV-induced cytopathogenesis.
PXD037709	36558536	The TriMet_DB: A Manually Curated Database of the Metabolic Proteins of Triticum aestivum. 	The TriMet_DB: a manually curated database of the metabolic proteins of Triticum aestivum	Triticum aestivum, manually curated database, mass spectrometry-based proteomics, metabolic proteins, wheat	Mass-spectrometry-based wheat proteomics is challenging because the current interpretation of mass spectrometry data relies on public databases that are not exhaustive (UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot) or contain many redundant and poor or un-annotated entries (UniProtKB/TrEMBL). Here, we report the development of a manually curated database of the metabolic proteins of Triticum aestivum (hexaploid wheat), named TriMet_DB (Triticum aestivum Metabolic Proteins DataBase). The manually curated TriMet_DB was generated in FASTA format so that it can be read directly by programs used to interpret the mass spectrometry data. Furthermore, the complete list of entries included in the TriMet_DB is reported in a freely available resource, which includes for each protein the description, the gene code, the protein family, and the allergen name (if any). To evaluate its performance, the TriMet_DB was used to interpret the MS data acquired on the metabolic protein fraction extracted from the cultivar MEC of Triticum aestivum. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD037709.
PXD033055	36560896	Structure and function analysis of Sam68 and hnRNP A1 synergy in the exclusion of exon 7 from SMN2 transcripts. 	The molecular bases of spinal muscular atrophy	Biological sciences/Molecular biology/RNA metabolism/Alternative splicing Biological sciences/Structural biology/X-ray crystallography Health sciences/Diseases/Neurological disorders/Motor neuron disease	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by the absence of a functional copy of the Survival of Motor Neuron 1 gene (SMN1). The nearly identical paralog, SMN2, cannot compensate for the loss of SMN1 because exon 7 is aberrantly skipped from most SMN2 transcripts, a process mediated by synergistic activities of Src-associated during mitosis, 68 kDa (Sam68/KHDRBS1) and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A1. This results in the production of a truncated, nonfunctional protein that is rapidly degraded. Here, we present several crystal structures of Sam68 RNA-binding domain (RBD). Sam68-RBD forms stable symmetric homodimers by antiparallel association of helices alpha3 from two monomers. However, the details of domain organization and the dimerization interface differ significantly from previously characterized homologs. We demonstrate that Sam68 and hnRNP A1 can simultaneously bind proximal motifs within the central region of SMN2 (ex7). Furthermore, we show that the RNA-binding pockets of the two proteins are close to each other in their heterodimeric complex and identify contact residues using crosslinking-mass spectrometry. We present a model of the ternary Sam68.SMN2 (ex7).hnRNP A1 complex that reconciles all available information on SMN1/2 splicing. Our findings have important implications for the etiology of SMA and open new avenues for the design of novel therapeutics to treat splicing diseases.
PXD036142	36561432	Proteomics reveals that cell density could affect the efficacy of drug treatment. 	Mass Spectrometry Proteomics Reveals Cell Density Affects Drug Treatment Efficacy	Cell Confluence, Cell cycle, Drug evaluation	In vitro cell biology study plays a fundamental role in biological and drug development research, but the repeatability and accuracy of cell studies remain to be low. Various uncertainties during the cell culture process could introduce bias into drug research. In this study, we evaluate the potential effects and underlying mechanisms induced by cell number differences in the cell seeding process. Normally, drug experiments are initiated 24 h after cell seeding, and the difference in the cell number at the time of inoculation leads to the difference in cell confluence (cell density) when drug research is conducted. While cell confluence is closely related to intercellular communication, surface protein interaction, cell autocrine as well as paracrine protein expression of cells, it might have a potential impact on the effect of biological studies such as drug treatment. This study used proteomics technology to comprehensively explore the different protein expression patterns between cells with different confluences. Due to the high sensitivity and high throughput of liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) detection, it was hired to evaluate the protein expression differences of Hep3B cells with 3 different confluences (30%, 50%, and 70%). The differential expressed proteins were analyzed by the Reactome pathway and the Gene Ontology (GO) pathway. Significant differences were identified across three confluences in terms of the number of proteins identified, the protein expression pattern, and the expression level of certain KEGG pathways. We found that those proteins involved in the cell cycle pathway were differently expressed: the higher the cell confluence, the higher these proteins expressed. A cell cycle inhibitor palbociclib was selected to further verify this observation. Palbociclib in the same dose was applied to cells with different confluence, the results indicated that the growth inhibition effect of palbociclib increases along with the increasing trend of cell cycle protein expression. The result indicated that cell density did influence the effect of drug treatment. Furthermore, three other drugs, cisplatin, paclitaxel, and imatinib, were used to treat the three liver cancer cell lines Hep3B, SUN387, and MHCC97, and a similar observation was obtained that drug effect would be different when the cell confluences were different. Therefore, selecting an appropriate number of cells for plating is vitally important at the beginning of a drug study.
PXD034267	36561774	Data-independent acquisition proteomics reveals circulating biomarkers of coronary chronic total occlusion in humans. 	Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics Reveals Circulating Biomarkers of Coronary Chronic Total Occlusion in Humans	coronary chronic total occlusion, data-independent acquisition proteomics, percutaneous coronary intervention, protein dynamics	Introduction: The pathophysiology of coronary chronic total occlusion (CTO) has not been fully elucidated. Methods: In the present study, we aimed to investigate the potential plasma biomarkers associated with the pathophysiologic progression of CTO and identify protein dynamics in the plasma of CTO vessels immediately after successful revascularization. We quantitatively analyzed the plasma proteome profiles of controls (CON, n = 10) and patients with CTO pre- and post- percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) (CTO, n = 10) by data-independent acquisition proteomics. We performed enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to further confirm the common DEPs in the two-group comparisons (CON vs. CTO and CTO vs. CTO-PCI). Results: A total of 1936 proteins with 69 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were detected in the plasma of patients with CTO through quantitative proteomics analysis. For all these DEPs, gene ontology (GO) analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis were performed. The results showed that most of the proteins were related to the negative regulation of proteolysis, regulation of peptidase activity, negative regulation of hydrolase activity, humoral immune response, and lipid location. Furthermore, we identified 1927 proteins with 43 DEPs in the plasma of patients with CTO vessels after immediately successful revascularization compared to pre-PCI. GO analysis revealed that the above DEPs were enriched in the biological processes of extracellular structure organization, protein activation cascade, negative regulation of response to external stimulus, plasminogen activation, and fibrinolysis. More importantly, we generated a Venn diagram to identify the common DEPs in the two-group comparisons. Seven proteins, ADH4, CSF1, galectin, LPL, IGF2, IgH, and LGALS1, were found to be dynamically altered in plasma during the pathophysiological progression of CTO vessels and following successful revascularization, moreover, CSF1 and LGALS1 were validated via ELISA. Conclusions: The results of this study reveal a dynamic pattern of the molecular response after CTO vessel immediate reperfusion, and identified seven proteins which would be the potential targets for novel therapeutic strategies to prevent coronary CTO.
PXD031134	36563685	CFIm-mediated alternative polyadenylation safeguards the development of mammalian pre-implantation embryos. 	Interacting proteins of NUDT21 identified by IP-MS	CFIm25, NUDT21, alternative polyadenylation	Alternative polyadenylation (APA) gives rise to transcripts with distinct 3' untranslated regions (3' UTRs), thereby affecting the fate of mRNAs. APA is strongly associated with cell proliferation and differentiation status, and thus likely plays a critical role in the embryo development. However, the pattern of APA in mammalian early embryos is still unknown. Here, we analyzed the 3' UTR lengths in human and mouse pre-implantation embryos using available single cell RNA-seq datasets and explored the underlying mechanism driving the changes. Although human and mouse early embryos displayed distinct patterns of 3' UTR changing, RNA metabolism pathways were involved in both species. The 3' UTR lengths are likely determined by the abundance of the cleavage factor I complex (CFIm) components NUDT21 and CPSF6 in the nucleus. Importantly, depletion of either component resulted in early embryo development arrest and 3' UTR shortening. Collectively, these data highlight an essential role for APA in the development of mammalian early embryos.
PXD036983	36564030	Proximity proteomics identifies septins and PAK2 as decisive regulators of actomyosin-mediated expulsion of von Willebrand factor. 	: Proximity proteomics identifies endothelial cell septins and PAK2 as decisive regulators of actomyosin mediated expulsion of von Willebrand factor.	APEX2, PAK2, Rab27a, Septin, VWF secretion, Weibel palade bodies, endothelial cells, haemostasis, proximity proteomics	In response to tissue injury, within seconds the ultra-large glycoprotein von Willebrand factor (VWF) is released from endothelial storage organelles (Weibel-Palade bodies) into the lumen of the blood vasculature, where it leads to the recruitment of platelets. The marked size of VWF multimers represents an unprecedented burden on the secretory machinery of endothelial cells (ECs). ECs have evolved mechanisms to overcome this, most notably an actomyosin ring that forms, contracts, and squeezes out its unwieldy cargo. Inhibiting the formation or function of these structures represents a novel therapeutic target for thrombotic pathologies, although characterizing proteins associated with such a dynamic process has been challenging. We have combined APEX2 proximity labeling with an innovative dual loss-of-function screen to identify proteins associated with actomyosin ring function. We show that p21 activated kinase 2 (PAK2) recruits septin hetero-oligomers, a molecular interaction that forms a ring around exocytic sites. This cascade of events controls actomyosin ring function, aiding efficient exocytic release. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of PAK2 or septins led to inefficient release of VWF and a failure to form platelet-catching strings. This new molecular mechanism offers additional therapeutic targets for the control of thrombotic disease and is highly relevant to other secretory systems that employ exocytic actomyosin machinery.
PXD035916	36564444	Proximity-dependent biotin labeling in testicular germ cells identified TESMIN-associated proteins. 	TESMIN interactome characterization	BioID, BioID2, IP-MS, TESMIN, Testis, Transgenic Mouse, TurboID	Characterization of protein-protein interactions (PPI) is a key to understanding the functions of proteins of interest. Recently developed proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID) has been actively investigated as an alternative PPI mapping method because of its usefulness in uncovering transient PPI. Here, as an example of proximity labeling proteomics application in the testis, we generated two transgenic mouse lines expressing two biotin ligases (BioID2 or TurboID) fused with TESMIN, which translocates from the cytosol to the nucleus during meiotic progression and is required for reproduction. The BioID2 transgene, albeit not the TurboID transgene, rescued fertility defects of the Tesmin KO male mice, indicating that the TESMIN-BioID2 fusion can physiologically replace TESMIN. Furthermore, biotinylated protein pull-down and affinity-purification followed by mass spectrometry using the TESMIN-BioID2 transgenic mice captured components of the MYBL1-MuvB complex that regulate cell-cycle gene expression. Thus, our study shows that proximity labeling proteomics can be applied in male germ cells, although the choice of biotin ligase needs to be carefully tested.
PXD017474	36564470	PCNA regulates primary metabolism by scaffolding metabolic enzymes. 	PCNA has specific functions in regulation of metabolism in haematological cells	APIM, PI3K/AKT pathway, cell signalling, central carbon metabolism, kinome, metabolomics, redox metabolism, signalome, systems-level study	The essential roles of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) as a scaffold protein in DNA replication and repair are well established, while its cytosolic roles are less explored. Two metabolic enzymes, alpha-enolase (ENO1) and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD), both contain PCNA interacting motifs. Mutation of the PCNA interacting motif APIM in ENO1 (F423A) impaired its binding to PCNA and resulted in reduced cellular levels of ENO1 protein, reduced growth rate, reduced glucose consumption, and reduced activation of AKT. Metabolome and signalome analysis reveal large consequences of impairing the direct interaction between PCNA and ENO1. Metabolites above ENO1 in glycolysis accumulated while lower glycolytic and TCA cycle metabolite pools decreased in the APIM-mutated cells; however, their overall energetic status were similar to parental cells. Treating haematological cancer cells or activated primary monocytes with a PCNA targeting peptide drug containing APIM (ATX-101) also lead to a metabolic shift characterized by reduced glycolytic rate. In addition, we show that ATX-101 treatments reduced the ENO1 - PCNA interaction, the ENO1, GAPDH and 6PGD protein levels, as well as the 6PGD activity. Here we report for the first time that PCNA acts as a scaffold for metabolic enzymes, and thereby act as a direct regulator of primary metabolism.
PXD037766	36566012	Synchro-PASEF Allows Precursor-Specific Fragment Ion Extraction and Interference Removal in Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Synchro-PASEF slices peptide precursors enabling specific fragment extraction and interference removal in data independent acquisition	PASEF, TIMS, TOF, data-independent acquisition, rapid analysis, scan mode	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) methods have become increasingly popular in mass spectrometry-based proteomics because they enable continuous acquisition of fragment spectra for all precursors simultaneously. However, these advantages come with the challenge of correctly reconstructing the precursor-fragment relationships in these highly convoluted spectra for reliable identification and quantification. Here, we introduce a scan mode for the combination of trapped ion mobility spectrometry with parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation (PASEF) that seamlessly and continuously follows the natural shape of the ion cloud in ion mobility and peptide precursor mass dimensions. Termed synchro-PASEF, it increases the detected fragment ion current several-fold at sub-second cycle times. Consecutive quadrupole selection windows move synchronously through the mass and ion mobility range. In this process, the quadrupole slices through the peptide precursors, which separates fragment ion signals of each precursor into adjacent synchro-PASEF scans. This precisely defines precursor-fragment relationships in ion mobility and mass dimensions and effectively deconvolutes the DIA fragment space. Importantly, the partitioned parts of the fragment ion transitions provide a further dimension of specificity via a lock-and-key mechanism. This is also advantageous for quantification, where signals from interfering precursors in the DIA selection window do not affect all partitions of the fragment ion, allowing to retain only the specific parts for quantification. Overall, we establish the defining features of synchro-PASEF and explore its potential for proteomic analyses.
PXD036878	36566302	Sperm morphology and performance in relation to postmating prezygotic isolation in two recently diverged passerine species. 	Sperm morphology and performance in relation to postmating prezygotic isolation in two recently diverged passerine species	birds, female reproductive tract fluid, hybridization, postcopulatory sexual selection, speciation, sperm	Divergence in sperm phenotype and female reproductive environment may be a common source of postmating prezygotic (PMPZ) isolation between species. However, compared to other reproductive barriers it has received much less attention. In this study, we examined sperm morphology and velocity in two hybridizing passerine species, the common nightingale (Luscinia megarhynchos) and thrush nightingale (L. luscinia). In addition, we for the first time characterized a passerine female reproductive tract fluid proteome. We demonstrate that spermatozoa of the common nightingale have significantly longer and wider midpiece (proximal part of the flagellum containing mitochondria) and longer tail compared to spermatozoa of thrush nightingale. On the other hand, they have significantly shorter and narrower acrosome. Importantly, these differences did not have any effect on sperm velocity. Furthermore, the fluid from the reproductive tract of common nightingale females did not differentially affect velocity of conspecific and heterospecific sperm. Our results indicate that the observed changes in the flagellum and acrosome size are unlikely to contribute to PMPZ isolation through differential sperm velocity of conspecific and heterospecific sperm in the female reproductive tract. However, they could affect other postcopulatory processes, which might be involved in PMPZ isolation, such as sperm storage, longevity or sperm-egg interaction.
PXD037593	36566568	Stimulation with THBS4 activates pathways that regulate proliferation, migration and inflammation in primary human keratinocytes. 	Proliferation, migration and inflammation-related signaling pathways activated in THBS4-stimulated keratinocytes characterize both wound healing and atopic dermatitis	Keratinocytes, THBS4, atopic dermatitis, skin, thrombospondin-4	As in other mammalian tissues, the extracellular matrix (ECM) of skin functions as mechanical support and regulative environment that guides the behavior of the cells. ECM is a gel-like structure that is primarily composed of structural and nonstructural proteins. While the content of structural proteins is stable, the level of nonstructural ECM proteins, such as thrombospondin-4 (THBS4), is dynamically regulated. In a previous work we demonstrated that THBS4 stimulated cutaneous wound healing. In this work we discovered that in addition to proliferation, THBS4 stimulated the migration of primary keratinocytes in 3D. By using a proteotransciptomic approach we found that stimulation of keratinocytes with THBS4 regulated the activity of signaling pathways linked to proliferation, migration, inflammation and differentiation. Interestingly, some of the regulated genes (eg IL37, TSLP) have been associated with the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD). We concluded that THBS4 is a promising candidate for novel wound healing therapies and suggest that there is a potential convergence of pathways that stimulate cutaneous wound healing with those active in the pathogenesis of inflammatory skin diseases.
PXD038357	36566904	Lysine Succinylation of VBS Contributes to Sclerotia Development and Aflatoxin Biosynthesis in Aspergillus flavus. 	Lysine Succinylation of VBS Contributes to Sclerotia Development and Aflatoxin Biosynthesis in Aspergillus flavus 	Aspergillus flavus, aflatoxin production, lysine succinylation, natural environments, quantification proteome	Aspergillus flavus is a common saprophytic and pathogenic fungus, and its secondary metabolic pathways are one of the most highly characterized owing to its aflatoxin (AF) metabolite affecting global economic crops and human health. Different natural environments can cause significant variations in AF synthesis. Succinylation was recently identified as one of the most critical regulatory post-translational modifications affecting metabolic pathways. It is primarily reported in human cells and bacteria with few studies on fungi. Proteomic quantification of lysine succinylation (Ksuc) exploring its potential involvement in secondary metabolism regulation (including AF production) has not been performed under natural conditions in A. flavus. In this study, a quantification method was performed based on tandem mass tag labeling and antibody-based affinity enrichment of succinylated peptides via high accuracy nano-liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry to explore the succinylation mechanism affecting the pathogenicity of naturally isolated A. flavus strains with varying toxin production. Altogether, 1240 Ksuc sites in 768 proteins were identified with 1103 sites in 685 proteins quantified. Comparing succinylated protein levels between high and low AF-producing A. flavus strains, bioinformatics analysis indicated that most succinylated proteins located in the AF biosynthetic pathway were downregulated, which directly affected AF synthesis. Versicolorin B synthase is a key catalytic enzyme for heterochrome B synthesis during AF synthesis. Site-directed mutagenesis and biochemical studies revealed that versicolorin B synthase succinylation is an important regulatory mechanism affecting sclerotia development and AF biosynthesis in A. flavus. In summary, our quantitative study of the lysine succinylome in high/low AF-producing strains revealed the role of Ksuc in regulating AF biosynthesis. We revealed novel insights into the metabolism of AF biosynthesis using naturally isolated A. flavus strains and identified a rich source of metabolism-related enzymes regulated by succinylation.
PXD039544	36567016	Expanded in vivo substrate profile of the yeast N-terminal acetyltransferase NatC. 	N-terminal acetylome analysis reveals an expanded substrate profile for the NatC N-terminal acetyltransferase complex in yeast	N-alpha-acetyltransferase 30 (NAA30), N-terminal COFRADIC, N-terminal acetylation, N-terminal acetylome, N-terminomics., NatC, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	N-terminal acetylation is a conserved protein modification among eukaryotes. The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a valuable model system for studying this modification. The bulk of protein N-terminal acetylation in S. cerevisiae is catalyzed by the N-terminal acetyltransferases NatA, NatB, and NatC. Thus far, proteome-wide identification of the in vivo protein substrates of yeast NatA and NatB has been performed by N-terminomics. Here, we used S. cerevisiae deleted for the NatC catalytic subunit Naa30 and identified 57 yeast NatC substrates by N-terminal combined fractional diagonal chromatography analysis. Interestingly, in addition to the canonical N-termini starting with ML, MI, MF, and MW, yeast NatC substrates also included MY, MK, MM, MA, MV, and MS. However, for some of these substrate types, such as MY, MK, MV, and MS, we also uncovered (residual) non-NatC NAT activity, most likely due to the previously established redundancy between yeast NatC and NatE/Naa50. Thus, we have revealed a complex interplay between different NATs in targeting methionine-starting N-termini in yeast. Furthermore, our results showed that ectopic expression of human NAA30 rescued known NatC phenotypes in naa30Delta yeast, as well as partially restored the yeast NatC Nt-acetylome. Thus, we demonstrate an evolutionary conservation of NatC from yeast to human thereby underpinning future disease models to study pathogenic NAA30 variants. Overall, this work offers increased biochemical and functional insights into NatC-mediated N-terminal acetylation and provides a basis for future work to pinpoint the specific molecular mechanisms that link the lack of NatC-mediated N-terminal acetylation to phenotypes of NatC deletion yeast.
PXD020270	36567215	Redox proteomics and structural analyses provide insightful implications for additional non-catalytic thiol-disulfide motifs in PDIs. 	Identification of oxidized cysteine residues in signaling proteins in U937 cells at basal levels and upon diamide and hypochlorous acid stimulations.	cysteine, oxidation, post-translational modifications, redox, signaling	Protein disulfide isomerases (PDIs) catalyze redox reactions that reduce, oxidize, or isomerize disulfide bonds and act as chaperones of proteins as they fold. The characteristic features of PDIs are the presence of one or more catalytic thioredoxin (TRX)-like domains harboring typical CXXC catalytic motifs responsible for redox reactions, as well as non-catalytic TRX-like domain. As increasing attention is paid to oxidative post-translational modifications of cysteines (Cys ox-PTMs) with the recognition that they control cellular signaling, strategies to identify sites of Cys ox-PTM by redox proteomics have been optimized. Exploration of an available Cys redoxome dataset supported by modeled structure provided arguments for the existence of an additional non-catalytic thiol-disulfide motif, distinct from those contained in the TRX type patterns, typical of PDIAs. Further structural analysis of PDIA3 and 6 allows us to consider the possibility that this hypothesis could be extended to other members of PDI. These elements invite future studies to decipher the exact role of these non-catalytic thiol-disulfide motifs in the functions of PDIs. Strategies that would allow to validate this hypothesis are discussed.
PXD030971	36567349	Staphylococcus aureus populations from the gut and the blood are not distinguished by virulence traits-a critical role of host barrier integrity. 	Staphylococcus aureus isolates from the gut and the blood are separated' by host barrier integrity	S. aureus, WGS, bacteremia, barrier, gut colonization	BACKGROUND: The opportunistic pathogen Staphylococcus aureus is an asymptomatically carried member of the microbiome of about one third of the human population at any given point in time. Body sites known to harbor S. aureus are the skin, nasopharynx, and gut. In particular, the mechanisms allowing S. aureus to pass the gut epithelial barrier and to invade the bloodstream were so far poorly understood. Therefore, the objective of our present study was to investigate the extent to which genetic differences between enteric S. aureus isolates and isolates that caused serious bloodstream infections contribute to the likelihood of invasive disease. RESULTS: Here, we present genome-wide association studies (GWAS) that compare the genome sequences of 69 S. aureus isolates from enteric carriage by healthy volunteers and 95 isolates from bloodstream infections. We complement our GWAS results with a detailed characterization of the cellular and extracellular proteomes of the representative gut and bloodstream isolates, and by assaying the virulence of these isolates with infection models based on human gut epithelial cells, human blood cells, and a small animal infection model. Intriguingly, our results show that enteric and bloodstream isolates with the same sequence type (ST1 or ST5) are very similar to each other at the genomic and proteomic levels. Nonetheless, bloodstream isolates are not necessarily associated with an invasive profile. Furthermore, we show that the main decisive factor preventing infection of gut epithelial cells in vitro is the presence of a tight barrier. CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that virulence is a highly variable trait, even within a single clone. Importantly, however, there is no evidence that blood stream isolates possess a higher virulence potential than those from the enteric carriage. In fact, some gut isolates from healthy carriers were more virulent than bloodstream isolates. Based on our present observations, we propose that the integrity of the gut epithelial layer, rather than the pathogenic potential of the investigated enteric S. aureus isolates, determines whether staphylococci from the gut microbiome will become invasive pathogens. Video Abstract.
PXD037475	36568212	Exosomes from cisplatin-induced dormant cancer cells facilitate the formation of premetastatic niche in bone marrow through activating glycolysis of BMSCs. 	Proteomics of exosomes derived from cisplatin-induced dormant A549 cells	dormancy, exosomes, lung cancer	Introduction: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Chemotherapy kills most cancer cells; however, residual cells enter a dormant state. The dormant cancer cells can be reactivated under specific circumstances. The "premetastatic niche" that is suitable for colonization of cancer cells is formed before the arrival of cancer cells. Tumor-derived exosomes are the main mediators of tumorigenesis. We are aiming to elucidate the roles of exosomes from cisplatin-induced dormant lung cancer cells in the formation of premetastatic niches in bone marrow. Methods: We performed differential proteomics in dormant A549 cell- and A549 cell-derived exosomes. Non-targeted metabolomics and RNA sequencing were performed to explore the molecular and metabolic reprogramming of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). The growth and metastasis of A549 cells in vivo were monitored by bioluminescence imaging. Results: We found that Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2) and Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) were upregulated in dormant A549 cell-derived exosomes. BMSCs that took up exosomes from dormant A549 cells showed enhanced glycolysis and promoted the growth and metastasis of A549 cells possibly through Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R)-induced metabolic reprogramming. Inhibition of the production of lactate and IGF-1R signaling can suppress the growth and metastasis of A549 cells from bone marrow. Discussion: Overall, we demonstrated that BMSCs formed a premetastatic niche upon taking up exosomes from cisplatin-induced dormant lung cancer cells. BMSCs promoted lung cancer cell growth and metastasis through the reverse Warburg effect.
PXD037334	36569084	Metaproteomics reveals methyltransferases implicated in dichloromethane and glycine betaine fermentation by 'Candidatus Formimonas warabiya' strain DCMF. 	Metaproteomic analysis of dichloromethane-fermenting enrichment culture DFE	"Candidatus Formimonas warabiya", anaerobic, dichloromethane, strain DCMF	Dichloromethane (DCM; CH2Cl2) is a widespread pollutant with anthropogenic and natural sources. Anaerobic DCM-dechlorinating bacteria use the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, yet dechlorination reaction mechanisms remain unclear and the enzyme(s) responsible for carbon-chlorine bond cleavage have not been definitively identified. Of the three bacterial taxa known to carry out anaerobic dechlorination of DCM, 'Candidatus Formimonas warabiya' strain DCMF is the only organism that can also ferment non-chlorinated substrates, including quaternary amines (i.e., choline and glycine betaine) and methanol. Strain DCMF is present within enrichment culture DFE, which was derived from an organochlorine-contaminated aquifer. We utilized the metabolic versatility of strain DCMF to carry out comparative metaproteomics of cultures grown with DCM or glycine betaine. This revealed differential abundance of numerous proteins, including a methyltransferase gene cluster (the mec cassette) that was significantly more abundant during DCM degradation, as well as highly conserved amongst anaerobic DCM-degrading bacteria. This lends strong support to its involvement in DCM dechlorination. A putative glycine betaine methyltransferase was also discovered, adding to the limited knowledge about the fate of this widespread osmolyte in anoxic subsurface environments. Furthermore, the metagenome of enrichment culture DFE was assembled, resulting in five high quality and two low quality draft metagenome-assembled genomes. Metaproteogenomic analysis did not reveal any genes or proteins for utilization of DCM or glycine betaine in the cohabiting bacteria, supporting the previously held idea that they persist via necromass utilization.
PXD038135	36569898	Tartrate resistant acid phosphatase 5 (TRAP5) mediates immune cell recruitment in a murine model of pulmonary bacterial infection. 	Tartrate resistant acid phosphatase 5 (TRAP5) mediates immune cell recruitment in a murine model of pulmonary bacterial infection	ACP5, COPD, Cystic Fibrosis, NFB, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, SPP1, TRAP5	Introduction: During airway infection, upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines and subsequent immune cell recruitment is essential to mitigate bacterial infection. Conversely, during prolonged and non-resolving airway inflammation, neutrophils contribute to tissue damage and remodeling. This occurs during diseases including cystic fibrosis (CF) and COPD where bacterial pathogens, not least Pseudomonas aeruginosa, contribute to disease progression through long-lasting infections. Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) 5 is a metalloenzyme expressed by alveolar macrophages and one of its target substrates is the phosphoglycoprotein osteopontin (OPN). Methods: We used a knockout mouse strain (Trap5-/-) and BALB/c-Tg (Rela-luc)31Xen mice paired with siRNA administration or functional protein add-back to elucidate the role of Trap5 during bacterial infection. In a series of experiments, Trap5-/- and wild-type control mice received intratracheal administration of P.aerugniosa (Xen41) or LPS, with mice monitored using intravital imaging (IVIS). In addition, multiplex cytokine immunoassays, flow cytometry, multispectral analyses, histological staining were performed. Results: In this study, we found that Trap5-/- mice had impaired clearance of P. aeruginosa airway infection and reduced recruitment of immune cells (i.e. neutrophils and inflammatory macrophages). Trap5 knockdown using siRNA resulted in a decreased activation of the proinflammatory transcription factor NF-kappaB in reporter mice and a subsequent decrease of proinflammatory gene expression. Add-back experiments of enzymatically active TRAP5 to Trap5-/- mice restored immune cell recruitment and bacterial killing. In human CF lung tissue, TRAP5 of alveolar macrophages was detected in proximity to OPN to a higher degree than in normal lung tissue, indicating possible interactions. Discussion: Taken together, the findings of this study suggest a key role for TRAP5 in modulating airway inflammation. This could have bearing in diseases such as CF and COPD where excessive neutrophilic inflammation could be targeted by pharmacological inhibitors of TRAP5.
PXD036378	36570927	The analysis of lysine succinylation modification reveals the mechanism of oxybenzone damaging of pakchoi (Brassica rapa L. ssp. chinensis). 	The analysis of lysine succinylation modification reveals the mechanism of oxybenzone damaging of pakchoi (Brassica rapa L. ssp. chinensis)	lysine succinylation, oxybenzone, pakchoi	Oxybenzone (OBZ), one of a broad spectrum of ultraviolet (UV) absorbents, has been proven to be harmful to both plants and animals, while omics analysis of big data at the molecular level is still lacking. Lysine succinylation (Ksuc) is an important posttranslational modification of proteins that plays a crucial role in regulating the metabolic network in organisms under stress. Here, we report the changes in intracellular Ksuc modification in plants under OBZ stress. A total of 1276 succinylated sites on 507 proteins were identified. Among these sites, 181 modified proteins were hypersulfinylated/succinylated in OBZ-stressed pakchoi leaves. Differentially succinylated proteins (DSPs) are distributed mainly in the chloroplast, cytoplasm, and mitochondria and are distributed mainly in primary metabolic pathways, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging, stress resistance, energy generation and transfer, photosynthetic carbon fixation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Comprehensive analysis shows that Ksuc mainly changes the carbon flow distribution, enhances the activity of the antioxidant system, affects the biosynthesis of amino acids, and increases the modification of histones. The results of this study first showed the profiling of the Kusc map under OBZ treatment and proposed the adaptive mechanism of pakchoi in response to pollutants and other abiotic stresses at the posttranslational level, which revealed the importance of Ksuc in the regulation of various life activities and provides a reference dataset for future research on molecular function.
PXD028827	36572140	Mink1 regulates spemann organizer cell fate in the xenopus gastrula via Hmga2. 	Mink1 Kinase Regulates Dorsal Mesodermal Cell Fate in the Xenopus Gastrula via HMGA2	Beta catenin, HMGA2, MINK1, Spemann organizer, Wnt signaling, Xenopus, congenital heart disease, gastrulation, left right patterning	Congenital Heart Disease (CHD) is the most common birth defect and leading cause of infant mortality, yet molecular mechanisms explaining CHD remain mostly unknown. Sequencing studies are identifying CHD candidate genes at a brisk rate including MINK1, a serine/threonine kinase. However, a plausible molecular mechanism connecting CHD and MINK1 is unknown. Here, we reveal that mink1 is required for proper heart development due to its role in left-right patterning. Mink1 regulates canonical Wnt signaling to define the cell fates of the Spemann Organizer and the Left-Right Organizer, a ciliated structure that breaks bilateral symmetry in the vertebrate embryo. To identify Mink1 targets, we applied an unbiased proteomics approach and identified the high mobility group architectural transcription factor, Hmga2. We report that Hmga2 is necessary and sufficient for regulating Spemann's Organizer. Indeed, we demonstrate that Hmga2 can induce Spemann Organizer cell fates even when beta-catenin, a critical effector of the Wnt signaling pathway, is depleted. In summary, we discover a transcription factor, Hmga2, downstream of Mink1 that is critical for the regulation of Spemann's Organizer, as well as the LRO, defining a plausible mechanism for CHD.
PXD030918	36572168	Impact of alpha-crystallin protein loss on zebrafish lens development. 	Effects of alpha-crystallin gene knockout on zebrafish lens development	alpha-crystallin, cataract, development, knockout, lens, zebrafish	The alpha-crystallin small heat shock proteins contribute to the transparency and refractive properties of the vertebrate eye lens and prevent the protein aggregation that would otherwise produce lens cataracts, the leading cause of human blindness. There are conflicting data in the literature as to what role the alpha-crystallins may play in early lens development. In this study, we used CRISPR gene editing to produce zebrafish lines with mutations in each of the three alpha-crystallin genes (cryaa, cryaba and cryabb) to prevent protein production. The absence of each alpha-crystallin protein was analyzed by mass spectrometry, and lens phenotypes were assessed with differential interference contrast microscopy and histology. Loss of alphaA-crystallin produced a variety of lens defects with varying severity in larvae at 3 and 4 dpf but little substantial change in normal fiber cell denucleation. Loss of alphaBa-crystallin produced no substantial lens defects. Our cryabb mutant produced a truncated alphaBb-crystallin protein and showed no substantial change in lens development. Mutation of each alpha-crystallin gene did not alter the mRNA levels of the remaining two, suggesting a lack of genetic compensation. These data suggest that alphaA-crystallin plays some role in lens development, but the range of phenotype severity in null mutants indicates its loss simply increases the chance for defects and that the protein is not essential. Our finding that cryaba and cryabb mutants lack noticeable lens defects is congruent with insubstantial transcript levels for these genes in lens epithelial and fiber cells through five days of development. Future experiments can explore the molecular mechanisms leading to lens defects in cryaa null mutants and the impact of alphaA-crystallin loss during zebrafish lens aging.
PXD033676	36572329	Isolation of a novel heterodimeric PSII complex via strep-tagged PsbO. 	Isolation of a novel heterodimeric PSII complex involved in PSII repair	Photosynthesis, Photosystem II, PsbO, Thermosynechococcus elongatus, cyanobacteria	The multi-subunit membrane protein complex photosystem II (PSII) catalyzes the light-driven oxidation of water and with this the initial step of photosynthetic electron transport in plants, algae, and cyanobacteria. Its biogenesis is coordinated by a network of auxiliary proteins that facilitate the stepwise assembly of individual subunits and cofactors, forming various intermediate complexes until fully functional mature PSII is present at the end of the process. In the current study, we purified PSII complexes from a mutant line of the thermophilic cyanobacterium Thermosynechococcus vestitus BP-1 in which the extrinsic subunit PsbO, characteristic for active PSII, was fused with an N-terminal Twin-Strep-tag. Three distinct PSII complexes were separated by ion-exchange chromatography after the initial affinity purification. Two complexes differ in their oligomeric state (monomeric and dimeric) but share the typical subunit composition of mature PSII. They are characterized by the very high oxygen evolving activity of approx. 6000 mumol O2.(mg Chl.h)(-1). Analysis of the third (heterodimeric) PSII complex revealed lower oxygen evolving activity of approx. 3000 mumol O2.(mg Chl.h)(-1) and a manganese content of 2.7 (+/-0.2) per reaction center compared to 3.7 (+/-0.2) of fully active PSII. Mass spectrometry and time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy further indicated that PsbO is partially replaced by Psb27 in this PSII fraction, thus implying a role of this complex in PSII repair.
PXD037072	36572675	Arabidopsis gamma-H2A.X-INTERACTING PROTEIN participates in DNA damage response and safeguards chromatin stability. 	Arabidopsis gamma-H2A.X-INTERACTING PROTEIN participates in DNA damage response and safeguards chromatin stability	DDR, chromatin stability, gamma-H2A.X reader	Upon the occurrence of DNA double strand breaks (DSB), the proximal histone variant H2A.X is phosphorylated as gamma-H2A.X, a critical signal for consequent DSB signaling and repair pathways. Although gamma-H2A.X-triggered DNA damage response (DDR) has been well-characterized in yeast and animals, the corresponding pathways in plant DDR are less well understood. Here, we show that an Arabidopsis protein gamma-H2A.X-INTERACTING PROTEIN (XIP) can interact with gamma-H2A.X. Its C-terminal dual-BRCT-like domain contributes to its specific interaction with gamma-H2A.X. XIP-deficient seedlings display smaller meristems, inhibited growth, and higher sensitivity to DSB-inducing treatment. Loss-of-function in XIP causes transcriptome changes mimicking wild-type plants subject to replicative or genotoxic stresses. After genotoxic bleomycin treatment, more proteins with upregulated phosphorylation modifications, more DNA fragments and cell death were found in xip mutants. Moreover, XIP physically interacts with RAD51, the key recombinase in homologous recombination (HR), and somatic HR frequency is significantly reduced in xip mutants. Collectively, XIP participates in plant response to DSB and contributes to chromatin stability.
PXD035347	36573964	Targeting ULK1 Decreases IFNgamma-Mediated Resistance to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors. 	ULK1 as a novel therapeutic target to enhance immune checkpoint therapies against melanoma	IRF1, PD-L1, ULK1, immune checkpoint inhibitors, interferon-gamma, melanoma, signaling	Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) have transformed the treatment of melanoma. However, the majority of patients have primary or acquired resistance to ICIs, limiting durable responses and patient survival. IFNgamma signaling and the expression of IFNgamma-stimulated genes correlate with either response or resistance to ICIs, in a context-dependent manner. While IFNgamma-inducible immunostimulatory genes are required for response to ICIs, chronic IFNgamma signaling induces the expression of immunosuppressive genes, promoting resistance to these therapies. Here, we show that high levels of Unc-51 like kinase 1 (ULK1) correlate with poor survival in patients with melanoma and overexpression of ULK1 in melanoma cells enhances IFNgamma-induced expression of immunosuppressive genes, with minimal effects on the expression of immunostimulatory genes. In contrast, genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of ULK1 reduces expression of IFNgamma-induced immunosuppressive genes. ULK1 binds IRF1 in the nuclear compartment of melanoma cells, controlling its binding to the programmed death-ligand 1 promoter region. In addition, pharmacologic inhibition of ULK1 in combination with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 therapy further reduces melanoma tumor growth in vivo. Our data suggest that targeting ULK1 represses IFNgamma-dependent immunosuppression. These findings support the combination of ULK1 drug-targeted inhibition with ICIs for the treatment of patients with melanoma to improve response rates and patient outcomes. IMPLICATIONS: This study identifies ULK1, activated downstream of IFNgamma signaling, as a druggable target to overcome resistance mechanisms to ICI therapy in metastatic melanoma.
PXD031945	36574772	Immunoglobulin germline gene polymorphisms influence the function of SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies. 	Influence of immunoglobulin genotypes on the elicitation of SARS CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies	HDX-MS, Immunoglobulin germline allele, Neutralizing antibody, SARS-CoV-2, copy number variation, single nucleotide polymorphism	The human immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IGH) locus is exceptionally polymorphic, with high levels of allelic and structural variation. Thus, germline IGH genotypes are personal, which may influence responses to infection and vaccination. For an improved understanding of inter-individual differences in antibody responses, we isolated SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific monoclonal antibodies from convalescent health care workers, focusing on the IGHV1-69 gene, which has the highest level of allelic variation of all IGHV genes. The IGHV1-69(*)20-using CAB-I47 antibody and two similar antibodies isolated from an independent donor were critically dependent on allele usage. Neutralization was retained when reverting the V region to the germline IGHV1-69(*)20 allele but lost when reverting to other IGHV1-69 alleles. Structural data confirmed that two germline-encoded polymorphisms, R50 and F55, in the IGHV1-69 gene were required for high-affinity receptor-binding domain interaction. These results demonstrate that polymorphisms in IGH genes can influence the function of SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies.
PXD037068	36575184	SARS-CoV-2 hijacks cellular kinase CDK2 to promote viral RNA synthesis. 	SARS-CoV-2 hijacks cellular kinase CDK2 to promote viral RNA synthesis	CDK, RdRp, SARS-CoV-2, nsp12, phosphorylation	The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has devastated global health. Identifying key host factors essential for SARS-CoV-2 RNA replication is expected to unravel cellular targets for the development of broad-spectrum antiviral drugs which have been quested for the preparedness of future viral outbreaks. Here, we have identified host proteins that associate with nonstructural protein 12 (nsp12), the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) of SARS-CoV-2 using a mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic approach. Among the candidate factors, CDK2 (Cyclin-dependent kinase 2), a member of cyclin-dependent kinases, interacts with nsp12 and causes its phosphorylation at T20, thus facilitating the assembly of the RdRp complex consisting of nsp12, nsp7 and nsp8 and promoting efficient synthesis of viral RNA. The crucial role of CDK2 in viral RdRp function is further supported by our observation that CDK2 inhibitors potently impair viral RNA synthesis and SARS-CoV-2 infection. Taken together, we have discovered CDK2 as a key host factor of SARS-CoV-2 RdRp complex, thus serving a promising target for the development of SARS-CoV-2 RdRp inhibitors.
PXD031971	36575438	SMYD3 associates with the NuRD (MTA1/2) complex to regulate transcription and promote proliferation and invasiveness in hepatocellular carcinoma cells. 	Mass spectrometry identification data for the interactomics of SMYD3	IGFBP4, NuRD complex, SMYD3, hepatocellular carcinoma, metastasis	BACKGROUND: SMYD3, a member of the SET and MYND domain-containing (SMYD) family, is a histone methyltransferase (HMT) and transcription factor that plays an important role in transcriptional regulation in human carcinogenesis. RESULTS: Using affinity purification and mass spectrometry assays to identify SMYD3-associated proteins in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, we found several previously undiscovered SMYD3-interacting proteins, including the NuRD (MTA1/2) complex, the METTL family, and the CRL4B complex. Transcriptomic analysis of the consequences of knocking down SMYD3, MTA1, or MTA2 in HCC cells showed that SMYD3/NuRD complex targets a cohort of genes, some of which are critically involved in cell growth and migration. qChIP analyses showed that SMYD3 knockdown led to a significant reduction in the binding of MTA1 or MTA2 to the promoters of IGFBP4 and led to a significant decrease in H4K20me3 and a marked increase in H4Ac at the IGFBP4 promoter. In addition, we demonstrated that SMYD3 promotes cell proliferation, invasion, and tumorigenesis in vivo and in vitro and found that its expression is markedly upregulated in human liver cancer. Knockdown of MTA1 or MTA2 had the same effect as knockdown of SMYD3 on proliferation and invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Catalytic mutant SMYD3 could not rescue the phenotypic effects caused by knockdown of SMYD3. Inhibitors of SMYD3 effectively inhibited the proliferation and invasiveness of HCC cells. CONCLUSIONS: These findings revealed that SMYD3 could transcriptionally repress a cohort of target genes expression by associating with the NuRD (MTA1/2) complex, thereby promoting the proliferation and invasiveness of HCC cells. Our results support the case for pursuing SMYD3 as a practical prognostic marker or therapeutic target against HCC.
PXD030066	36575567	LncReader: identification of dual functional long noncoding RNAs using a multi-head self-attention mechanism. 	LncReader: identification of dual functional long non-coding RNAs using multi-head self-attention mechanism	HL60, K562, MOLM13, THP_1, leukemia cell lines	Long noncoding ribonucleic acids (RNAs; LncRNAs) endowed with both protein-coding and noncoding functions are referred to as 'dual functional lncRNAs'. Recently, dual functional lncRNAs have been intensively studied and identified as involved in various fundamental cellular processes. However, apart from time-consuming and cell-type-specific experiments, there is virtually no in silico method for predicting the identity of dual functional lncRNAs. Here, we developed a deep-learning model with a multi-head self-attention mechanism, LncReader, to identify dual functional lncRNAs. Our data demonstrated that LncReader showed multiple advantages compared to various classical machine learning methods using benchmark datasets from our previously reported cncRNAdb project. Moreover, to obtain independent in-house datasets for robust testing, mass spectrometry proteomics combined with RNA-seq and Ribo-seq were applied in four leukaemia cell lines, which further confirmed that LncReader achieved the best performance compared to other tools. Therefore, LncReader provides an accurate and practical tool that enables fast dual functional lncRNA identification.
PXD028801	36576318	Blood proteome of acute intracranial hemorrhage in infant victims of abusive head trauma. 	Identification of novel blood protein biomarkers in infants with Acute Intracranial Hemorrhage	DIA-MS, Postmortem blood proteomics	Abusive head trauma (AHT) is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity in infants. While the reported incidence is close to 40 cases per 100'000 births/year, misdiagnoses are commonly observed in cases with atypical, subacute, or chronic presentation. Currently, standard clinical evaluation of inflicted intracranial hemorrhagic injury (ICH) in infants urgently requires a screening test able to identify infants who need additional investigations. Blood biomarkers characteristic of AHT may assist in detecting these infants, improving prognosis through early medical care. To date, the application of innovative omics technologies in retrospective studies of AHT in infants is rare, due also to the blood serum and cerebrospinal fluid of AHT cases being scarce and not systematically accessible. Here, we explored the circulating blood proteomes of infants with severe AHT and their atraumatic controls. We discovered 165 circulating serum proteins that display differential changes in AHT cases compared with atraumatic controls. The peripheral blood proteomes of pediatric AHT commonly reflect: (i) potentially secreted proteome from injured brain, and (ii) proteome dysregulated in the system's circulation by successive biological events following acute ICH. This study opens up a novel opportunity for research efforts in clinical screening of AHT cases.
PXD028061	36576983	Phosphoproteomic analysis identifies supervillin as an ERK3 substrate regulating cytokinesis and cell ploidy. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis identifies supervillin as a new ERK3 substrate regulating cytokinesis and ploidy of breast cancer cells	ERK3, Phosphoprotoemic, breast cancer, cytokinesis, ploidy, supervillin	Extracellular signal-regulated kinase 3 (ERK3) is a poorly characterized member of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family. Functional analysis of the ERK3 signaling pathway has been hampered by a lack of knowledge about the substrates and downstream effectors of the kinase. Here, we used large-scale quantitative phosphoproteomics and targeted gene silencing to identify direct ERK3 substrates and gain insight into its cellular functions. Detailed validation of one candidate substrate identified the gelsolin/villin family member supervillin (SVIL) as a bona fide ERK3 substrate. We show that ERK3 phosphorylates SVIL on Ser245 to regulate myosin II activation and cytokinesis completion in dividing cells. Depletion of SVIL or ERK3 leads to increased cytokinesis failure and multinucleation, a phenotype rescued by wild type SVIL but not by the non-phosphorylatable S245A mutant. Our results unveil a new function of the atypical MAP kinase ERK3 in cell division and the regulation of cell ploidy.
PXD036527	36577688	Chemoproteomic profiling of O-GlcNAcylated proteins and identification of O-GlcNAc transferases in rice. 	Chemoproteomic profiling of O-GlcNAcylated proteins and identification of O-GlcNAc transferases in rice	HCD pd EThcD, O-GlcNAcylation, chemoproteomic, metabolic glycan labeling, plant glycobiology., rice	O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosaminylation (O-GlcNAcylation) is a ubiquitous post-translation modification occurring in both animals and plants. Thousands of proteins along with their O-GlcNAcylation sites have been identified in various animal systems, yet the O-GlcNAcylated proteomes in plants remain poorly understood. Here, we report a large-scale profiling of protein O-GlcNAcylation in a site-specific manner in rice. We first established the metabolic glycan labelling (MGL) strategy with N-azidoacetylgalactosamine (GalNAz) in rice seedlings, which enabled incorporation of azides as a bioorthogonal handle into O-GlcNAc. By conjugation of the azide-incorporated O-GlcNAc with alkyne-biotin containing a cleavable linker via click chemistry, O-GlcNAcylated proteins were selectively enriched for mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. A total of 1591 unambiguous O-GlcNAcylation sites distributed on 709 O-GlcNAcylated proteins were identified. Additionally, 102 O-GlcNAcylated proteins were identified with their O-GlcNAcylation sites located within serine/threonine-enriched peptides, causing ambiguous site assignment. The identified O-GlcNAcylated proteins are involved in multiple biological processes, such as transcription, translation and plant hormone signalling. Furthermore, we discovered two O-GlcNAc transferases (OsOGTs) in rice. By expressing OsOGTs in Escherichia coli and Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, we confirmed their OGT enzymatic activities and used them to validate the identified rice O-GlcNAcylated proteins. Our dataset provides a valuable resource for studying O-GlcNAc biology in rice, and the MGL method should facilitate the identification of O-GlcNAcylated proteins in various plants.
PXD030826	36578271	Cell-derived nanovesicles prepared by membrane extrusion are good substitutes for natural extracellular vesicles. 	Engineered Extracellular Vesicles Prepared by Membrane Extrusion Are Good Substitutes for Natural Extracellular Vesicles	Drug delivery, Engineered Vesicles, Next generation sequecing, extracellular vesicles, mass sepctrometry	Extracellular vesicles (EV) as drug delivery nanocarriers are under intense investigation. Although clinical-grade EVs have been produced on a large-scale, low yield and high production costs of natural EVs (nEV) limit the relevant industrial translation. Recent studies show that mechanical extrusion of cells can generate nEV-like cell-derived nanovesicles (CNV) which can also be used as drug nanocarriers. Moreover, in comparison with nEVs, CNVs have similar physicochemical properties. Nevertheless, a comprehensive comparison of cargo between nEVs and CNVs has not been investigated yet. Therefore, the aim of this study is to profile and compare CNVs to nEVs. Our results show that no significant difference was found in size, morphology, and classical markers between nEVs and CNVs derived from MDA-MB-231 cells. Protein sequencing data reveals the similarity of membrane proteins between the two groups was ~71%, while it was ~21% when pertaining to total protein cargo. Notably, a high similarity of membrane proteins was also found between nEVs and CNVs derived from eight additional cancer cell lines. Moreover, analysis of the top 1000 small RNAs with RNA sequencing showed a ~65% similarity between the two groups. Altogether, we infer from the high similarity of membrane proteins and small RNA cargo that CNVs can be a good substitute for nEVs. In brief, our findings support previous studies with a notion that CNVs yield comparable performance with nEVs and could pave the way for clinical implementation of CNV-based therapeutics in the future.
PXD036065	36579714	Characterization of proteogenomic signatures of differentiation of CD4+ T cell subsets. 	Project Title: Proteome analysis of CD4+ T cell subsets	CD4+ helper T cell, DIA	Functionally distinct CD4+ helper T (Th) cell subsets, including Th1, Th2, Th17, and regulatory T cells (Treg), play a pivotal role in the regulation of acquired immunity. Although the key proteins involved in the regulation of Th cell differentiation have already been identified how the proteogenomic landscape changes during the Th cell activation remains unclear. To address this issue, we characterized proteogenomic signatures of differentiation to each Th cell subsets by RNA sequencing and liquid chromatography-assisted mass spectrometry, which enabled us to simultaneously quantify more than 10,000 protein-coding transcripts and 8,000 proteins in a single-shot. The results indicated that T cell receptor activation affected almost half of the transcript and protein levels in a low correlative and gene-specific manner, and specific cytokine treatments modified the transcript and protein profiles in a manner specific to each Th cell subsets: Th17 and Tregs particularly exhibited unique proteogenomic signatures compared to other Th cell subsets. Interestingly, the in-depth proteome data revealed that mRNA profiles alone were not enough to delineate functional changes during Th cell activation, suggesting that the proteogenomic dataset obtained in this study serves as a unique and indispensable data resource for understanding the comprehensive molecular mechanisms underlying effector Th cell differentiation.
PXD028123	36580912	SARS-CoV-2 replication in airway epithelia requires motile cilia and microvillar reprogramming. 	Phosphoproteome of SARS-CoV-2 infected Human Nasal Epithelium	ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2, human nasal epithelium, phosphoproteome	How SARS-CoV-2 penetrates the airway barrier of mucus and periciliary mucins to infect nasal epithelium remains unclear. Using primary nasal epithelial organoid cultures, we found that the virus attaches to motile cilia via the ACE2 receptor. SARS-CoV-2 traverses the mucus layer, using motile cilia as tracks to access the cell body. Depleting cilia blocks infection for SARS-CoV-2 and other respiratory viruses. SARS-CoV-2 progeny attach to airway microvilli 24 h post-infection and trigger formation of apically extended and highly branched microvilli that organize viral egress from the microvilli back into the mucus layer, supporting a model of virus dispersion throughout airway tissue via mucociliary transport. Phosphoproteomics and kinase inhibition reveal that microvillar remodeling is regulated by p21-activated kinases (PAK). Importantly, Omicron variants bind with higher affinity to motile cilia and show accelerated viral entry. Our work suggests that motile cilia, microvilli, and mucociliary-dependent mucus flow are critical for efficient virus replication in nasal epithelia.
PXD026750	36581244	A Database of Accurate Electrophoretic Migration Patterns for Human Proteins. 	A reference database of electrophoretic migration patterns for human proteins in a set of cell lines.	SDS-PAGE, electrophoresis, geLC-MS, molecular weight, western blot	Native molecular weight (MW) is one of the defining features of proteins. Denaturing gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) is a very popular technique for separating proteins and determining their MW. Coupled with antibody-based detection, SDS-PAGE is widely applied for protein identification and quantitation. Yet, electrophoresis is poorly reproducible and the MWs obtained are often inaccurate. This hampers antibody validation and negatively impacts the reliability of western blot data, resulting worldwide in a considerable waste of reagents and labour. We argue that, to alleviate these problems there is a need to establish a database of reference MWs measured by SDS-PAGE. Using mass spectrometry as an orthogonal detection method, we acquired electrophoretic migration patterns for approximately 10'000 human proteins in five commonly used cell lines. We applied a robust internal calibration of migration to determine accurate and reproducible molecular weights. This in turn allows merging replicates to increase accuracy, but also enables comparing different cell lines. Mining of the data obtained highlights structural factors that affect migration of distinct classes of proteins. When combined with peptide coverage, the data produced recapitulates known post-translational modifications and differential splicing and can be used to formulate hypotheses on new or poorly known processing events. The full information is freely accessible as a web resource through a user friendly graphical interface (https://pumba.dcsr.unil.ch/). We anticipate that this database will be useful to investigators worldwide for troubleshooting western blot experiments, but could also contribute to the characterization of human proteoforms.
PXD021172	36582220	In vivo localization of iron starvation induced proteins under variable iron supplementation regimes in Phaeodactylum tricornutum. 	In vivo dynamics of Iron Starvation Induced Proteins under variable iron supplementation regimes suggest an iron processing organelle in Phaeodactylum tricornutum.	Diatoms, Iron Starvation Induced Proteins, Phaeodactylum tricornutum, fluorescent proteins, iron, siderophores	The model pennate diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum is able to assimilate a range of iron sources. It therefore provides a platform to study different mechanisms of iron processing concomitantly in the same cell. In this study, we follow the localization of three iron starvation induced proteins (ISIPs) in vivo, driven by their native promoters and tagged by fluorophores in an engineered line of P. tricornutum. We find that the localization patterns of ISIPs are dynamic and variable depending on the overall iron status of the cell and the source of iron it is exposed to. Notwithstanding, a shared destination of the three ISIPs both under ferric iron and siderophore-bound iron supplementation is a globular compartment in the vicinity of the chloroplast. In a proteomic analysis, we identify that the cell engages endocytosis machinery involved in the vesicular trafficking as a response to siderophore molecules, even when these are not bound to iron. Our results suggest that there may be a direct vesicle traffic connection between the diatom cell membrane and the periplastidial compartment (PPC) that co-opts clathrin-mediated endocytosis and the "cytoplasm to vacuole" (Cvt) pathway, for proteins involved in iron assimilation. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021172. Highlight: The marine diatom P. tricornutum engages a vesicular network to traffic siderophores and phytotransferrin from the cell membrane directly to a putative iron processing site in the vicinity of the chloroplast.
PXD036941	36582223	Novel potential biomarkers for severe alcoholic liver disease. 	Alcoholic Liver Disease Human Serum Proteomics	ALD, Serum	Background: Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a leading cause of advanced liver disease; however, minor clinical symptoms in the early stage frequently result in delayed diagnosis and therapy. Invasive liver biopsy, the gold standard for diagnosing ALD, is unsuitable for repetitive analysis. This study aims to identify potential serum biomarkers that could contribute to non-invasive disease screening and monitoring. Methods: Label-free LC-MS/MS quantitative proteomics analysis was performed to identify differentially expressed proteins in the discovery cohort, followed by bioinformatics analysis based on the KEGG, GO, and String databases. Prioritized proteins were validated subsequently by quantitative assays. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was used to assess the diagnosis performance of potential biomarkers. Results: A total of 161 differentially expressed proteins were identified in the discovery cohort, of which 123 were up-regulated and 38 were down-regulated. B2M, IGFALS, and IGFBP3 were evaluated, and all demonstrated excellent diagnosis performance with AUROCs of over 0.9 when distinguishing patients with severe ALD from healthy controls. The AUROC values of B2M, IGFBP3, and IGFALS were 0.7131, 0.8877, and 0.9896 for differentiating severe ALD from non-severe ALD to indicate disease severity. B2M could distinguish patients with non-severe ALD and HC participants with an AUROC value of 0.8985. The efficiency of multiple combinations of these biomarkers was superior to that of the existing liver fibrosis evaluation indices used to monitor disease progression, with AUROC values of over 0.9. IGFALS showed a positive correlation with ALT/AST (r=0.4648, P=0.0009) and may be developed as a therapeutic target. Conclusion: This proteomic study identified three novel candidate proteins as promising circulating biomarkers for clinical diagnosis and disease progression and also provided the proteomic atlas for ALD pathophysiological mechanisms.
PXD037110	36582529	Integrative analysis and identification of key elements and pathways regulated by Traditional Chinese Medicine (Yiqi Sanjie formula) in colorectal cancer. 	Identification of key elements and pathways regulated by Yiqi Sanjie formula against colorectal cancer based on integrative analyses	Colorectal cancer, Gut microbiota, Inflammation, Peiminine, Yiqi Sanjie formula	Introduction: The clinical efficacy of Yiqi Sanjie (YQSJ) formula in the treatment of stage III colorectal cancer (CRC) has been demonstrated. However, the underlying antitumor mechanisms remain poorly understood. Materials and methods: The aim of the present study was to comprehensively characterize the molecular and microbiota changes in colon tissues and fecal samples from CRC mice and in CRC cell lines treated with YQSJ or its main active component, peiminine. Integrative tandem mass tag-based proteomics and ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry metabolomics were used to analyze azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium-induced CRC mouse colon tissues. Results: The results showed that 0.8% (57/7568) of all detected tissue proteins and 3.2% (37/1141) of all detected tissue metabolites were significantly changed by YQSJ treatment, with enrichment in ten and six pathways associated with colon proteins and metabolites, respectively. The enriched pathways were related to inflammation, sphingolipid metabolism, and cholesterol metabolism. Metabolomics analysis of fecal samples from YQSJ-treated mice identified 121 altered fecal metabolites and seven enriched pathways including protein digestion and absorption pathway. 16S rRNA sequencing analysis of fecal samples indicated that YQSJ restored the CRC mouse microbiota structure by increasing the levels of beneficial bacteria such as Ruminococcus_1 and Prevotellaceae_UCG_001. In HCT-116 cells treated with peiminine, data-independent acquisition-based proteomics analysis showed that 1073 of the 7152 identified proteins were significantly altered and involved in 33 pathways including DNA damage repair, ferroptosis, and TGF-beta signaling. Conclusion: The present study identified key regulatory elements (proteins/metabolites/bacteria) and pathways involved in the antitumor mechanisms of YQSJ, suggesting new potential therapeutic targets in CRC.
PXD035153	36583366	Npl3 functions in mRNP assembly by recruitment of mRNP components to the transcription site and their transfer onto the mRNA. 	Npl3 functions in mRNP assembly by recruitment of mRNP components to the transcription site and their transfer onto the mRNA	NMR, Npl3, RNA-binding proteins, RNA-binding sites, SR-like protein, XL-MS, gene expression, mRNA, mRNP assembly, structure	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) control every RNA metabolic process by multiple protein-RNA and protein-protein interactions. Their roles have largely been analyzed by crude mutations, which abrogate multiple functions at once and likely impact the structural integrity of the large ribonucleoprotein particles (RNPs) these proteins function in. Using UV-induced RNA-protein crosslinking of entire cells, protein complex purification and mass spectrometric analysis, we identified >100 in vivo RNA crosslinks in 16 nuclear mRNP components in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. For functional analysis, we chose Npl3, which displayed crosslinks in its two RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) and in the connecting flexible linker region. Both RRM domains and the linker uniquely contribute to RNA recognition as revealed by NMR and structural analyses. Interestingly, mutations in these regions cause different phenotypes, indicating distinct functions of the different RNA-binding domains. Notably, an npl3-Linker mutation strongly impairs recruitment of several mRNP components to chromatin and incorporation of other mRNP components into nuclear mRNPs, establishing a so far unknown function of Npl3 in nuclear mRNP assembly. Taken together, our integrative analysis uncovers a specific function of the RNA-binding activity of the nuclear mRNP component Npl3. This approach can be readily applied to RBPs in any RNA metabolic process.
PXD033135	36583687	FAIRE-MS reveals mitotic retention of transcriptional regulators on a proteome-wide scale. 	FAIRE-MS reveals mitotic retention of transcriptional regulators on a proteome-wide scale	cell identity, mitotic bookmarking, quantitative proteomics, transcription factor	Mitosis entails global and dramatic alterations, such as higher-order chromatin organization disruption, concomitant with global transcription downregulation. Cells reliably re-establishing gene expression patterns upon mitotic exit and maintaining cellular identities remain poorly understood. Previous studies indicated that certain transcription factors (TFs) remain associated with individual loci during mitosis and serve as mitotic bookmarkers. However, it is unclear which regulatory factors remain bound to the compacted mitotic chromosomes. We developed formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements-coupled mass spectrometry (FAIRE-MS) that combines FAIRE-based open chromatin-associated protein pull-down and mass spectrometry (MS) to quantify the open chromatin-associated proteome during the interphase and mitosis. We identified 189 interphase and mitosis maintained (IM) regulatory factors using FAIRE-MS and found intrinsically disordered proteins and regions (IDP(R)s) are highly enriched, which plays a crucial role in liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) and chromatin organization during the cell cycle. Notably, in these IDP(R)s, we identified mitotic bookmarkers, such as CEBPB, HMGB1, and TFAP2A, and several factors, including MAX, HMGB3, hnRNP A2/B1, FUS, hnRNP D, and TIAL1, which are at least partially bound to the mitotic chromosome. Furthermore, it will be essential to study whether these IDP(R)s through LLPS helps cells transit from mitosis to the G1 phase during the cell cycle.
PXD032855	36583994	Identification of potential antigenic peptides of Brucella through proteome and peptidome. 	Identification of blood MHC-binding peptides in mice after Brucella infection	Brucella, MHC, Mice, Peptides	BACKGROUND: Brucellosis, caused by Brucella spp., is a major zoonotic public health threat. Although several Brucella vaccines have been demonstrated for use in animals, Brucella spp. can cause human infection and to date, there are no human-use vaccines licensed by any agency. Recently, methods in vaccine informatics have made major breakthroughs in peptide-based epitopes, opening up a new avenue of vaccine development. OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this article was to identify potential antigenic peptides in Brucella by proteome and peptidome analyses. METHODS: Mouse infection models were first established by injection with Brucella and spleen protein profiles were then analysed. Subsequently, the major histocompatibility complex class I or II (major histocompatibility complex [MHC]-I/II)-binding peptides in blood samples were collected by immunoprecipitation and peptides derived from Brucella proteins were identified through liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). These peptides were then evaluated in a variety of ways, such as in terms of conservation in Brucella and synchronicity in predicted peptides (similarity and coverage), which allowed us to more effectively measure their antigenic potential. RESULTS: The expression of the inflammatory cytokines IL1B and IFN-gamma was significantly altered in the spleen of infected mice and some Brucella proteins, such as Muri, AcpP and GroES, were also detected. Meanwhile, in blood, 35 peptides were identified and most showed high conservation, highlighting their potential as antigen epitopes for vaccine development. In particular, we identified four proteins containing both MHC-I- and MHC-II-binding peptides including AtpA, AtpD, DnaK and BAbS19_II02030. They were also compared with the predicted peptides to estimate their reliability. CONCLUSIONS: The peptides we screened could bind to MHC molecules. After being stimulated with antigen T epitopes, Memory T cells can stimulate T cell activation and promote immune responses. Our results indicated that the peptides we identified may be good candidate targets for the design of subunit vaccines and these results pave the way for the study of safer vaccines against Brucella.
PXD031257	36584488	Expression of glucose transporter-1 in follicular lymphoma affected tumor-infiltrating immunocytes and was related to progression of disease within 24 months. 	Abnormal expression of glucose transporter-1 are a driver of early relapse in follicular lymphoma	GLUT1, IMC, PI3K/Akt /mTOR signaling, early-relapsed follicular lymphoma, tumor immunomicroenvironment	OBJECTIVE: Follicular lymphoma (FL) occurring progression within 24 months (POD24) after initial immunochemotherapy has poor prognosis. GLUT1 affects glycolysis within tumor microenvironment (TME) and promotes tumor progression. However, its specific mediated mechanism remains unclear in FL. METHODS: Baseline GLUT1 expression, infiltrations of M2 macrophage, and CD8+ T-cells were assessed by immunohistochemistry in FL with POD24 and long-term remission respectively. The spatial features of TME were assessed by MIBI-TOF and proteomics. Predictive immunophenotypes for POD24 occurrence was analyzed by random forest algorithm. The lactate production and the induction of M2 macrophages were detected when GLUT1 was transfected or knocked down in DOHH2. The activation of PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling in DOHH2 and WSU-FSCCL cells co-cultured with induced inhibitory immunocytes was tracked by western blotting. RESULTS: The FL with POD24 exhibited higher baseline GLUT1 expression and increased infiltration of various inhibitory immunocytes. Spatial signatures of 69 immunophenotypes could predict POD24 occurrence. The activation of PI3K/ Akt /mTOR signaling pathway was not significant in both groups. The supernatant of DOHH2-GLUT1 cells which had more lactate content could induce more M2-type macrophages than that of DOHH2/siRNA GLUT1 cells. When co-cultured with exhausted CD8+ T cells, M2-type macrophages and Tregs, compared with WSU-FSCCL cells, DOHH2 cells with high GLUT1 expression induced more M2-type macrophages and was triggered activation of PI3K/ Akt /mTOR signaling pathway. CONCLUSION: Tumor cells overexpressing GLUT1 could domesticate immunocytes to form an immunosuppressive TME, which promotes occurrence of POD24 and gradually activates PI3K/ Akt /mTOR pathway of tumor cells in FL. SIGNIFICANCE: Tumor cells overexpressing GLUT1 could domesticate immunocytes to form an immunosuppressive microenvironment, which in turn promoted the growth of tumor cells and was related to the progression of disease within 24 months in FL. Suppressive immunocytes gradually activated PI3K/ Akt /mTOR pathway of tumor cells in later stage. Distinguishing spatial features of immunocytes could well predict POD24 occurrence, hoping to benefit these patients from early anti-metabolism therapy based on GLUT1 in the future.
PXD038005	36584595	Mapping of functional SARS-CoV-2 receptors in human lungs establishes differences in variant binding and SLC1A5 as a viral entry modulator of hACE2. 	Mapping of Functional SARS-CoV-2 Receptors in Human Lungs Establishes Differences in Variant Binding and SLC1A5 as a Viral Entry Modulator of hACE2	ACE2 co-factors, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, RBD, Spike, Super Resolution microscopy, viral binding, viral entry	BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic is an infectious disease caused by SARS-CoV-2. The first step of SARS-CoV-2 infection is the recognition of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptors by the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the viral Spike (S) glycoprotein. Although the molecular and structural bases of the SARS-CoV-2-RBD/hACE2 interaction have been thoroughly investigated in vitro, the relationship between hACE2 expression and in vivo infection is less understood. METHODS: Here, we developed an efficient SARS-CoV-2-RBD binding assay suitable for super resolution microscopy and simultaneous hACE2 immunodetection and mapped the correlation between hACE2 receptor abundance and SARS-CoV-2-RBD binding, both in vitro and in human lung biopsies. Next, we explored the specific proteome of SARS-CoV-2-RBD/hACE2 through a comparative mass spectrometry approach. FINDINGS: We found that only a minority of hACE2 positive spots are actually SARS-CoV-2-RBD binding sites, and that the relationship between SARS-CoV-2-RBD binding and hACE2 presence is variable, suggesting the existence of additional factors. Indeed, we found several interactors that are involved in receptor localization and viral entry and characterized one of them: SLC1A5, an amino acid transporter. High-resolution receptor-binding studies showed that co-expression of membrane-bound SLC1A5 with hACE2 predicted SARS-CoV-2 binding and entry better than hACE2 expression alone. SLC1A5 depletion reduces SARS-CoV-2 binding and entry. Notably, the Omicron variant is more efficient in binding hACE2 sites, but equally sensitive to SLC1A5 downregulation. INTERPRETATION: We propose a method for mapping functional SARS-CoV-2 receptors in vivo. We confirm the existence of hACE2 co-factors that may contribute to differential sensitivity of cells to infection. FUNDING: This work was supported by an unrestricted grant from "Fondazione Romeo ed Enrica Invernizzi" to Stefano Biffo and by AIRC under MFAG 2021 - ID. 26178 project - P.I. Manfrini Nicola.
PXD026010	36585452	Network-based assessment of HDAC6 activity predicts preclinical and clinical responses to the HDAC6 inhibitor ricolinostat in breast cancer. 	Acetylome Profiling Reveals the Endogenous Substrates of HDAC6	Acetylome, HAP1 Cell	Inhibiting individual histone deacetylase (HDAC) is emerging as well-tolerated anticancer strategy compared with pan-HDAC inhibitors. Through preclinical studies, we demonstrated that the sensitivity to the leading HDAC6 inhibitor (HDAC6i) ricolinstat can be predicted by a computational network-based algorithm (HDAC6 score). Analysis of ~3,000 human breast cancers (BCs) showed that ~30% of them could benefice from HDAC6i therapy. Thus, we designed a phase 1b dose-escalation clinical trial to evaluate the activity of ricolinostat plus nab-paclitaxel in patients with metastatic BC (MBC) (NCT02632071). Study results showed that the two agents can be safely combined, that clinical activity is identified in patients with HR(+)/HER2(-) disease and that the HDAC6 score has potential as predictive biomarker. Analysis of other tumor types also identified multiple cohorts with predicted sensitivity to HDAC6i's. Mechanistically, we have linked the anticancer activity of HDAC6i's to their ability to induce c-Myc hyperacetylation (ac-K148) promoting its proteasome-mediated degradation in sensitive cancer cells.
PXD033924	36587031	Resveratrol rescues cutaneous radiation-induced DNA damage via a novel AMPK/SIRT7/HMGB1 regulatory axis. 	HPLC-MS datasets of the protein mix immunoprecipitated by SIRT7 antibody in HaCaT cells	HPLC-MS, SIRT7	Cutaneous radiation injury (CRI) interrupts the scheduled process of radiotherapy and even compromises the life quality of patients. However, the current clinical options for alleviating CRI are relatively limited. Resveratrol (RSV) has been shown to be a promising protective agent against CRI; yet the mechanisms of RSV enhancing radioresistance were not fully elucidated and limited its clinical application. In this study, we demonstrate RSV promotes cutaneous radioresistance mainly through SIRT7. During ionizing radiation (IR) treatment, RSV indirectly phosphorylates and activates SIRT7 through AMPK, which is critical for maintaining the genome stability of keratinocytes. Immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry identified HMGB1 to be the key interacting partner of SIRT7 to mediate the radioprotective function of RSV. Mechanistic study elucidated that SIRT7 interacts with and deacetylates HMGB1 to redistribute it into nucleus and "switch on" its function for DNA damage repair. Our findings establish a novel AMPK/SIRT7/HMGB1 regulatory axis that mediates the radioprotective function of RSV to alleviate IR-induced cutaneous DNA injury, providing an efficiently-curative option for patients with CRI during radiotherapy.
PXD035285	36587728	Contryphan sequence diversity: Messy N-terminus processing, effects on chromatographic behaviour and mass spectrometric fragmentation. 	Contryphan sequence diversity: Messy N-terminus processing, effects on chromatographic behaviour  and mass spectrometric fragmentation.	Conus lividus	Contryphans, peptides containing a single disulfide bond, are found abundantly in cone snail venom. The analysis of a large dataset of available contryphan sequences permits a classification based on the occurrence of proline residues at positions 2 and 5 within the macrocyclic 23-membered disulfide loop. Further sequence diversity is generated by variable proteolytic processing of the contryphan precursor proteins. In the majority of contryphans, presence of Pro at position 2 and a D-residue at position 3 leads to a slow conformational dynamics, manifesting as anomalous chromatographic profiles during LC analysis. LC-MS analysis of diverse contryphans suggests that elution profiles may be used as a rapid diagnostic for the presence of the Pro2-(D)Xxx3 motif. Natural sequences from C.inscriptus and C.frigidus together with synthetic analogs permit the delineation of the features necessary for abnormal chromatographic behaviour. A diagnostic for the presence of Pro at position 5 is obtained by the observation of non-canonical fragment ions, generated by N-C(alpha) bond cleavage at the dehydroalanine residue formed by disulfide cleavage. Anomalous LC profiles supports Pro at position 2, while non-canonical mass spectral fragments established Pro at position 5, providing a rapid method for contryphan analysis from LC-ESI-MS/MS profiles of crude Conus venom. SIGNIFICANCE: Contryphans are peptides, widely distributed in cone snail venom, which display extensive sequence diversity. Heterogeneity of proteolytic processing of contryphan precursor proteins, together with post-translational modifications contributes to contryphan diversity. Contryphans, identified by a combination of mass spectrometry and transcriptomic analysis, are classified on the basis of sequence features, primarily the number of proline residues within the disulfide loop. Conformational diversity arises in contryphans by cis-trans isomerization of Cys-Pro bonds, resulting in characteristic chromatographic profiles, permitting identification even in crude venom mixtures. Rapid identification of contryphans in cone snail peptide libraries is also facilitated by diagnostic mass spectral fragments arising by non-canonical cleavage of the N-C(alpha) bond at Cys(7).
PXD034490	36588479	Legionella- and host-driven lipid flux at LCV-ER membrane contact sites promotes vacuole remodeling. 	The Legionella-driven PtdIns(4)P gradient at LCV-ER membrane contact sites promotes Vap-, OSBP and Sac1-dependent pathogen vacuole remodeling	Amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, Legionella pneumophila, Legionnaires' disease, atlastin, host-pathogen interaction, large fusion GTPase, oxysterol binding protein, pathogen vacuole	Legionella pneumophila replicates in macrophages and amoeba within a unique compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). Hallmarks of LCV formation are the phosphoinositide lipid conversion from PtdIns(3)P to PtdIns(4)P, fusion with ER-derived vesicles and a tight association with the ER. Proteomics of purified LCVs indicate the presence of membrane contact sites (MCS) proteins possibly implicated in lipid exchange. Using dually fluorescence-labeled Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba, we reveal that VAMP-associated protein (Vap) and the PtdIns(4)P 4-phosphatase Sac1 localize to the ER, and Vap also localizes to the LCV membrane. Furthermore, Vap as well as Sac1 promote intracellular replication of L. pneumophila and LCV remodeling. Oxysterol binding proteins (OSBPs) preferentially localize to the ER (OSBP8) or the LCV membrane (OSBP11), respectively, and restrict (OSBP8) or promote (OSBP11) bacterial replication and LCV expansion. The sterol probes GFP-D4H* and filipin indicate that sterols are rapidly depleted from LCVs, while PtdIns(4)P accumulates. In addition to Sac1, the PtdIns(4)P-subverting L. pneumophila effector proteins LepB and SidC also support LCV remodeling. Taken together, the Legionella- and host cell-driven PtdIns(4)P gradient at LCV-ER MCSs promotes Vap-, OSBP- and Sac1-dependent pathogen vacuole maturation.
PXD038536	36588705	Integrative proteomics and metabolomics approach to identify the key roles of icariin-mediated protective effects against cyclophosphamide-induced spermatogenesis dysfunction in mice. 	Integrativeproteomicsandmetabolomicsapproach toidentify the key roles of icariin-mediated protective effects against cyclophosphamide-induced spermatogenesis dysfunction in mice	Cyclophosphamide, Icariin, metabolomic, spermatogenesis dysfunction	The alkylating antineoplastic agent cyclophosphamide (CP) is known to be toxic to the male reproductive system, but there are no effective prevention or treatment options. The flavonoid icariin (ICA), which is used in Chinese medicine, has been shown to have a number of biological functions, including testicular protection. The current study looked into the protective effects of ICA in preventing CP-induced spermatogenesis dysfunction. The current study looked into the role of ICA in preventing testicular dysfunction caused by CP. For 5 days, healthy adult mice were given saline or a single dose of CP (50 mg/kg) intraperitoneally (i.p). For the next 30 days, mice were given ICA (80 mg/kg) by gavage. Animals were euthanized 12 h after receiving ICA, and testes were removed for biochemical, histopathological, sperm evaluation, and transmission electron microscope analysis (TEM). We also investigated the potential biological effects of ICA on CP-induced spermatogenesis dysfunction in mice using an integrated proteomic and metabolomic approach. The levels of 8309 proteins and 600 metabolites were measured. The majority of the differential proteins and metabolites were found to be enriched in a variety of metabolic pathways, including the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, necroptosis, the mTOR signaling pathway, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and ABC transporters, implying that ICA may have molecular mechanisms that contribute to CP-induced spermatogenesis dysfunction in the testis. Taken together, these findings show that ICA effectively reduces testis injury, implying that ICA may have a role in male infertility preservation.
PXD037968	36589664	Proteomic analysis of radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid cancer identifies CHI3L1 upregulation in association with dysfunction of the sodium-iodine symporter. 	Proteomic analysis of radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid cancer	proteomic analysis, thyroid cancer	Radioiodine refractory differentiated thyroid cancer (RR-DTC) is the main factor adversely affecting the overall survival rate of patients with thyroid cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate the underlying molecular mechanism of pathogenesis of RR-DTC and to explore novel therapeutic targets for clinical treatment. A proteomic analysis was performed using the tumor tissues of patients with RR-DTC. A total of 6 metastatic lymph nodes were collected during lymph node dissection, 3 from patients with RR-DTC and 3 from patients with papillary thyroid cancer. The expression of chitinase-3-like 1 (CHI3L1) and sodium-iodine symporter (NIS) in the tumor tissue was detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Western blotting was used to detect the expression of CHI3L1, phosphorylated (p)-MEK and p-ERK1/2 in PTC-K1 cells transfected with CHI3L1 overexpression vector. The proteomic analysis identified 665 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), including 327 upregulated and 338 downregulated proteins in the RR-DTC group, which were enriched in 59 signaling pathways by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes database analysis. In particular, CHI3L1 was demonstrated to be significantly upregulated in RR-DTC as evidenced by quantitative proteomic analysis and IHC. Western blotting suggested that the overexpression of CHI3L1 activated the MEK/ERK1/2 signaling pathway, which may lead to NIS dysfunction. In conclusion, the present study suggests that CHI3L1 is a potential molecular target for the radiotherapy of patients with RR-DTC.
PXD032776	36590436	Label-free relative quantitative proteomics reveals extracellular vesicles as a vehicle for Salmonella effector protein delivery. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of Exosomes	Exosomes, Henle-407 cells, Salmonella, SopB	Extracellular vesicles are small vesicles with a diameter of 30-150 nm that are actively secreted by eukaryotic cells and play important roles in intercellular communication, immune responses, and tumorigenesis. Previous studies have shown that extracellular vesicles are involved in the process of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium) infection. However, changes in the protein content of extracellular vesicles elicited by S. Typhimurium infection have not been determined. Here, we extracted the extracellular vesicles with high purity from S. Typhimurium-infected Henle-407 cells, a kind of human intestinal epithelial cells, by ultracentrifugation combined with an extracellular vesicles purification kit, and analyzed their protein composition using label-free relative quantitative proteomics. The extracted extracellular vesicles exhibited an oval vesicular structure under electron microscopy, with a mean diameter of 140.4 +/- 32.4 nm. The exosomal marker proteins CD9, CD63, and HSP70 were specifically detected. Compared with the uninfected group, nearly 1,234 specifically loaded proteins were uncovered in S. Typhimurium-infected Henle-407 cells. Among them were 409 S. Typhimurium-derived specific proteins, indicating a significant alteration in protein composition of extracellular vesicles by S. Typhimurium infection. Notably, these proteins included 75 secretory proteins and over 300 non-secretory proteins of S. Typhimurium, implicating novel pathways for bacterial protein delivery, although it remains unclear if their loading into extracellular vesicles is active or passive. To investigate the roles of these extracellular proteins, we exemplified the function of SopB, a well-known T3SS effector protein, and showed that the extracellular SopB could be taken up by RAW264.7 macrophages, activating the phosphorylation of Akt. This study provides new insights into the mechanism of Salmonella infection through extracellular vesicles that transport virulence proteins to uninfected neighboring cells to facilitate further infection.
PXD032677	36590899	Multi-OMICs landscape of SARS-CoV-2-induced host responses in human lung epithelial cells. 	MultiOMICs landscape of SARS-CoV2-induced host responses in human lung epithelial cells	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, functional networks, inflammation, innate immune signaling, multi-OMICS, signaling	COVID-19 pandemic continues to remain a global health concern owing to the emergence of newer variants. Several multi-Omics studies have produced extensive evidence on host-pathogen interactions and potential therapeutic targets. Nonetheless, an increased understanding of host signaling networks regulated by post-translational modifications and their ensuing effect on the cellular dynamics is critical to expanding the current knowledge on SARS-CoV-2 infections. Through an unbiased transcriptomics, proteomics, acetylomics, phosphoproteomics, and exometabolome analysis of a lung-derived human cell line, we show that SARS-CoV-2 Norway/Trondheim-S15 strain induces time-dependent alterations in the induction of type I IFN response, activation of DNA damage response, dysregulated Hippo signaling, among others. We identified interplay of phosphorylation and acetylation dynamics on host proteins and its effect on the altered release of metabolites, especially organic acids and ketone bodies. Together, our findings serve as a resource of potential targets that can aid in designing novel host-directed therapeutic strategies.
PXD036251	36590918	Effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor knockdown and hypoxia/reoxygenation injury on the neuronal proteome and transcriptome. 	Effects of NMDAR on mouse hippocampal neuron (HT22) proteome expression during hypoxia/reoxygenation injury	HT22, NMDAR, hypoxia/reoxygenation injury, iTRAQ, mouse hippocampal neuron	Introduction: Brain tissue is extremely sensitive to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) injury, which can easily cause irreversible damage to neurons. H/R injury can induce neuronal apoptosis through glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is one of the main receptors of excitatory glutamate, and blocking NMDAR protects brain tissue from ischemic and hypoxic injury. However, NMDAR hypofunction can also cause psychotic symptoms or cognitive impairment. There is still a lack of systematic research on the changes in the proteome and transcriptome in neuronal cells under conditions of NMDAR hypofunction and H/R injury. Methods: We compared the changes in the proteome, transcriptome and lncRNA expression levels in neurons after NMDAR knockdown and H/R by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) and RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Results: The results showed that the proteins Rps9, Rpl18 and Rpl15 and the lncRNAs XLOC_161072 and XLOC_065271 were significantly downregulated after NMDAR knockdown but upregulated after H/R; in contrast, the mRNAs Bank1 and Pcp4l1 and the lncRNAs XLOC_159404 and XLOC_031922 were significantly upregulated after NMDAR knockdown but downregulated after H/R. Discussion: In this study, we demonstrated the characterization of protein, mRNA, and lncRNA expression profiles in neurons following NMDAR knockdown and H/R injury. These molecules are involved in multiple biological functions and signaling pathways, and their roles in neurons lacking NMDAR and subjected to H/R injury deserve further study. Additionally, we found that lncRNAs respond fastest to hypoxic stimulation and that Gapdh is not suitable as a reference protein for NMDAR-reduced neuron-related experiments.
PXD034396	36591174	Evaluation of the Potential Risk of Analyzing Phosphopeptides with Easy-nLC 1200-Coupled Mass Spectrometers. 	Evaluation of the potential risk of Easy-nLC 1200 in phosphoproteomics	LC-MS, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) is a major tool for the large-scale qualitative and/or quantitative analysis of protein phosphorylation in cells or tissues. The performance of LC is pivotal for the success of phosphoproteomics in both sensitivity and reproducibility. Here, we report that the widely used Easy-nLC 1200 has poor performance in analyzing phosphopeptides, particularly in terms of sensitivity and reproducibility, whereas its predecessor, Easy-nLC 1000, has a much better performance. Therefore, we suggest that Easy-nLC 1200 is not appropriate for LC-MS-based proteomics analysis for samples with a limited amount, particularly phosphopeptides from plants.
PXD033024	36596815	The mitochondrial Hsp70 controls the assembly of the F1FO-ATP synthase. 	The mitochondrial Hsp70 controls the assembly of the F1FO-ATP synthase	F1FO-ATP synthase, Mitochondria, Pulldown, mtHsp70	The mitochondrial F1FO-ATP synthase produces the bulk of cellular ATP. The soluble F1 domain contains the catalytic head that is linked via the central stalk and the peripheral stalk to the membrane embedded rotor of the FO domain. The assembly of the F1 domain and its linkage to the peripheral stalk is poorly understood. Here we show a dual function of the mitochondrial Hsp70 (mtHsp70) in the formation of the ATP synthase. First, it cooperates with the assembly factors Atp11 and Atp12 to form the F1 domain of the ATP synthase. Second, the chaperone transfers Atp5 into the assembly line to link the catalytic head with the peripheral stalk. Inactivation of mtHsp70 leads to integration of assembly-defective Atp5 variants into the mature complex, reflecting a quality control function of the chaperone. Thus, mtHsp70 acts as an assembly and quality control factor in the biogenesis of the F1FO-ATP synthase.
PXD037468	36597095	Proteomic Analysis of Protective Effects of Dl-3-n-Butylphthalide against mpp + -Induced Toxicity via downregulating P53 pathway in N2A Cells. 	Proteomic Analysis of Protective Effects of Dl-3-n-Butylphthalide against mpp+-Induced Toxicity via downregulating P53 pathway in N2A Cells	Dl-3-n-Butylphthalide (NBP), Neuroprotection, P53 pathway, Parkinson's Disease, Quantitative proteomic analysis, Tandem mass tag, mpp+	BACKGROUND: Dl-3-n-butylphthalide (NBP) is an important medial therapy for acute ischemic stroke in China. Recent studied have revealed that NBP not only rescued the loss of dopaminergic neurons in cellular and animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), but also could improve motor symptoms in PD patients. However, the protective mechanism is not fully understood. P53 is a multifunctional protein implicated in numerous cellular processes, including apoptosis, DNA repair, mitochondrial functions, redox homeostasis, autophagy and protein aggregations. In PD, p53 integrated with various neurodegeneration-related signals inducing neuronal loss, indicating the suppression of P53 might be a promising target for PD treatment. Therefore, the purpose of the current study was to systemically screen new therapeutic targets of NBP in PD. METHOD: In our study, we constructed mpp + induced N2A cells to investigate the benefit effect of NBP in PD. MTT assay was performed to evaluate the cell viability; TMT-based LC-MS/MS was applied to determine the different expressed proteins (DEPs) of NBP pretreatment; online bioinformatics databases such as DAVID, STRING, and KEGG was used to construe the proteomic data. After further analyzed and visualized the protein-protein interactions (PPI) by Cytoscape, DEPs were verified by western blot. RESULT: A total of 5828 proteins were quantified in the comparative proteomics experiments and 417 proteins were considered as DEPs (fold change > 1.5 and p < 0.05). Among the 417 DEPs, 140 were upregulated and 277 were downregulated in mpp + -induced N2A cells with NBP pretreatment. KEGG pathway analysis indicated that lysosome, phagosome, apoptosis, endocytosis and ferroptosis are the mainly enriched pathways. By using MCL clustering in PPI analysis, 48 clusters were generated and the subsequent KEGG analysis of the top 3 clusters revealed that P53 signaling pathway was recognized as the dominant pathway for NBP treatment. CONCLUSION: NBP significantly relived mpp + -induced cell toxicity. The neuroprotective role of NBP was implicated with P53 signaling pathway in some extent. These findings will reinforce the understanding of the mechanism of NBP in PD and identify novel therapeutic targets.
PXD036796	36597432	Antimicrobial Activity of Graphene Oxide Contributes to Alteration of Key Stress-Related and Membrane Bound Proteins. 	Antimicrobial activity of graphene oxide is associated with alteration in stress response and membrane proteins	Antimicrobial activity, Graphene oxide, Membrane disruption, Oxidative stress	Introduction: Antibacterial activity of graphene oxide (GO) has been extensively studied, wherein penetration of the bacterial cell membrane and oxidative stress are considered to play a major role in the bactericidal activity of GO. However, the specific mechanism responsible for the antibacterial activity of GO remains largely unknown. Hence, the goal of this study was to explore the mode of action of GO, via an in-depth proteomic analysis of the targeted bacteria. Methods: Staphylococcus aureus was grown in the presence of GO and samples were collected at different growth phases to examine the cell viability and to analyze the changes in protein expression. Antimicrobial efficiency of GO was tested by assessing bacterial viability, live/dead staining and scanning electron microscopy. The intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by GO treatment were examined by fluorescence microscopy. Label-free quantitative proteomics analysis was performed to examine the differentially regulated proteins in S. aureus after GO treatment. Results: GO treatment was observed to reduce S. aureus viability, from 50 +/- 17% after 4 h, to 93 +/- 2% after 24 h. The live/dead staining confirmed this progressive antimicrobial effect of GO. SEM images revealed the wrapping of bacterial cells and their morphological disruption by means of pore formation due to GO insertion. GO treatment was observed to generate intracellular ROS, correlating to the loss of cell viability. The proteomics analysis revealed alteration in the expression of cell membrane, oxidative stress response, general stress response, and virulence-associated proteins in GO-treated bacterial cells. The time-dependent bactericidal activity of GO correlated with a higher number of differentially regulated proteins involved in the above.-mentioned processes. Conclusion: The obtained results suggest that the time-dependent bactericidal effect of GO is attributed to its wrapping/trapping ability, ROS production and due to physical disruption of the cell membrane.
PXD035112	36600206	Identification of biomarkers and therapeutic targets related to Sepsis-associated encephalopathy in rats by quantitative proteomics. 	Identification of Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets Related to Sepsis-associated Encephalopathy in Rats by Quantitative Proteomics	Acute phase response, GC, PI3K/AKT signaling, Quantitative proteomics, Sepsis-associated encephalopathy	BACKGROUND: Sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE) is a common and severe complication of sepsis. While several studies have reported the proteomic alteration in plasma, urine, heart, etc. of sepsis, few research focused on the brain tissue. This study aims at discovering the differentially abundant proteins in the brains of septic rats to identify biomarkers of SAE. METHODS: The Prague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into sepsis (n = 6) or sham (n = 6) groups, and then the whole brain tissue was dissected at 24 h after surgery for further protein identification by Quantitative iTRAQ LC-MS/MS Proteomics. Ingenuity pathway analysis, Gene ontology knowledgebase, and STRING database are used to explore the biological significance of proteins with altered concentration. RESULTS: Among the total of 3163 proteins identified in the brain tissue, 57 were increased while 38 were decreased in the sepsis group compared to the sham group. Bioinformatic analyses suggest that the differentially abundant proteins are highly related to cellular microtubule metabolism, energy production, nucleic acid metabolism, neurological disease, etc. Additionally, acute phase response signaling was possibly activated and PI3K/AKT signaling was suppressed during sepsis. An interaction network established by IPA revealed that Akt1, Gc-globulin, and ApoA1 were the core proteins. The increase of Gc-globulin and the decrease of Akt1 and ApoA1 were confirmed by Western blot. CONCLUSION: Based on the multifunction of these proteins in several brain diseases, we first propose that Gc-globulin, ApoA1, PI3K/AKT pathway, and acute phase response proteins (hemopexin and cluster of alpha-2-macroglobulin) could be potential candidates for the diagnosis and treatment of SAE. These results may provide new insights into the pathologic mechanism of SAE, yet further research is required to explore the functional implications and clinical applications of the differentially abundant proteins in the brains of sepsis group.
PXD037171	36601583	Stings on wings: Proteotranscriptomic and biochemical profiling of the lesser banded hornet (Vespa affinis) venom. 	Stings on wings: venom proteomics and tissue transcriptomics of the lesser banded hornet, Vespa affinis	Vespa affinis, arthropod venom, venom gland transcriptome, venom proteome, wasp venom	Distinct animal lineages have convergently recruited venoms as weaponry for prey capture, anti-predator defence, conspecific competition, or a combination thereof. Most studies, however, have been primarily confined to a narrow taxonomic breadth. The venoms of cone snails, snakes, spiders and scorpions remain particularly well-investigated. Much less explored are the venoms of wasps (Order: Hymenoptera) that are infamous for causing excruciating and throbbing pain, justifying their apex position on Schmidt's pain index, including some that are rated four on four. For example, the lesser banded wasp (V. affinis) is clinically important yet has only been the subject of a few studies, despite being commonly found across tropical and subtropical Asia. Stings from these wasps, especially from multiple individuals of a nest, often lead to clinically severe manifestations, including mastocytosis, myasthenia gravis, optic neuropathy, and life-threatening pathologies such as myocardial infarction and organ failure. However, their venom composition and activity remain unexplored in the Indian subcontinent. Here, we report the proteomic composition, transcriptomic profile, and biochemical and pharmacological activities of V. affinis venom from southern India. Our findings suggest that wasp venoms are rich in diverse toxins that facilitate antipredator defence. Biochemical and pharmacological assessments reveal that these toxins can exhibit significantly higher activities than their homologues in medically important snakes. Their ability to exert potent effects on diverse molecular targets makes them a treasure trove for discovering life-saving therapeutics. Fascinatingly, wasp venoms, being evolutionarily ancient, exhibit a greater degree of compositional and sequence conservation across very distant populations/species, which contrasts with the patterns of venom evolution observed in evolutionarily younger lineages, such as advanced snakes and cone snails.
PXD037780	36602077	DsrC is involved in fermentative growth and interacts directly with the FlxABCD-HdrABC complex in Desulfovibrio vulgaris Hildenborough. 	D. vulgaris WT & DsrC mutants -- respiration & fermentation	DsrC, diDO-IPTL, fermentation, sulfate reduction	DsrC is a key protein in dissimilatory sulfur metabolism, where it works as co-substrate of the dissimilatory sulfite reductase DsrAB. DsrC has two conserved cysteines in a C-terminal arm that are converted to a trisulfide upon reduction of sulfite. In sulfate-reducing bacteria, DsrC is essential and previous works suggested additional functions beyond sulfite reduction. Here, we studied whether DsrC also plays a role during fermentative growth of Desulfovibrio vulgaris Hildenborough, by studying two strains where the functionality of DsrC is impaired by a lower level of expression (IPFG07) and additionally by the absence of one conserved Cys (IPFG09). Growth studies coupled with metabolite and proteomic analyses reveal that fermentation leads to lower levels of DsrC, but impairment of its function results in reduced growth by fermentation and a shift towards more fermentative metabolism during sulfate respiration. In both respiratory and fermentative conditions, there is increased abundance of the FlxABCD-HdrABC complex and Adh alcohol dehydrogenase in IPFG09 versus the wild type, which is reflected in higher production of ethanol. Pull-down experiments confirmed a direct interaction between DsrC and the FlxABCD-HdrABC complex, through the HdrB subunit. Dissimilatory sulfur metabolism, where sulfur compounds are used for energy generation, is a key process in the ecology of anoxic environments, and is more widespread among bacteria than previously believed. Two central proteins for this type of metabolism are DsrAB dissimilatory sulfite reductase and its co-substrate DsrC. Using physiological, proteomic and biochemical studies of Desulfovibrio vulgaris Hildenborough and mutants affected in DsrC functionality, we show that DsrC is also relevant for fermentative growth of this model organism and that it interacts directly with the soluble FlxABCD-HdrABC complex that links the NAD(H) pool with dissimilatory sulfite reduction.
PXD035654	36602948	A central CRMP complex essential for invasion in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Interaction network of the Cysteine Repeat Modular protein complex of Toxoplasma gondii	CRMPs, DiCre, Invasion, Toxoplasma, TurboID	Apicomplexa are obligate intracellular parasites. While most species are restricted to specific hosts and cell types, Toxoplasma gondii can invade every nucleated cell derived from warm-blooded animals. This broad host range suggests that this parasite can recognize multiple host cell ligands or structures, leading to the activation of a central protein complex, which should be conserved in all apicomplexans. During invasion, the unique secretory organelles (micronemes and rhoptries) are sequentially released and several micronemal proteins have been suggested to be required for host cell recognition and invasion. However, to date, only few micronemal proteins have been demonstrated to be essential for invasion, suggesting functional redundancy that might allow such a broad host range. Cysteine Repeat Modular Proteins (CRMPs) are a family of apicomplexan-specific proteins. In T. gondii, two CRMPs are present in the genome, CRMPA (TGGT1_261080) and CRMPB (TGGT1_292020). Here, we demonstrate that both proteins form a complex that contains the additional proteins MIC15 and the thrombospondin type 1 domain-containing protein (TSP1). Disruption of this complex results in a block of rhoptry secretion and parasites being unable to invade the host cell. In conclusion, this complex is a central invasion complex conserved in all apicomplexans.
PXD038317	36603027	Attachment of the RNA degradosome to the bacterial inner cytoplasmic membrane prevents wasteful degradation of rRNA in ribosome assembly intermediates. 	Attachment of the RNA degradosome to the inner cytoplasmic membrane of Escherichia coli prevents wasteful degradation of rRNA intermediates in ribosome assembly.	Label-free quantitative proteomics, RNA degradosome, RNase E, Ribosome assembly, nanoLC-MS/MS	RNA processing and degradation shape the transcriptome by generating stable molecules that are necessary for translation (rRNA and tRNA) and by facilitating the turnover of mRNA, which is necessary for the posttranscriptional control of gene expression. In bacteria and the plant chloroplast, RNA degradosomes are multienzyme complexes that process and degrade RNA. In many bacterial species, the endoribonuclease RNase E is the central component of the RNA degradosome. RNase E-based RNA degradosomes are inner membrane proteins in a large family of gram-negative bacteria (beta- and gamma-Proteobacteria). Until now, the reason for membrane localization was not understood. Here, we show that a mutant strain of Escherichia coli, in which the RNA degradosome is localized to the interior of the cell, has high levels of 20S and 40S particles that are defective intermediates in ribosome assembly. These particles have aberrant protein composition and contain rRNA precursors that have been cleaved by RNase E. After RNase E cleavage, rRNA fragments are degraded to nucleotides by exoribonucleases. In vitro, rRNA in intact ribosomes is resistant to RNase E cleavage, whereas protein-free rRNA is readily degraded. We conclude that RNA degradosomes in the nucleoid of the mutant strain interfere with cotranscriptional ribosome assembly. We propose that membrane-attached RNA degradosomes in wild-type cells control the quality of ribosome assembly after intermediates are released from the nucleoid. That is, the compact structure of mature ribosomes protects rRNA against cleavage by RNase E. Turnover of a proportion of intermediates in ribosome assembly explains slow growth of the mutant strain. Competition between mRNA and rRNA degradation could be the cause of slower mRNA degradation in the mutant strain. We conclude that attachment of the RNA degradosome to the bacterial inner cytoplasmic membrane prevents wasteful degradation of rRNA precursors, thus explaining the reason for conservation of membrane-attached RNA degradosomes throughout the beta- and gamma-Proteobacteria.
PXD037491	36603205	Optimization of Higher-Energy Collisional Dissociation Fragmentation Energy for Intact Protein-Level Tandem Mass Tag Labeling. 	Optimization of Higher-Energy Collisional Dissociation Fragmentation Energies for Intact Protein-level Tandem Mass Tag Labeling	HCD, protein-level TMT labeling, quantitative proteomics, top-down proteomics	Isobaric chemical tag labeling (e.g., TMT) is a commonly used approach in quantitative proteomics, and quantification is enabled through detection of low-mass reporter ions generated after MS2 fragmentation. Recently, we have introduced and optimized an intact protein-level TMT labeling platform that demonstrated >90% labeling efficiency in complex samples with top-down proteomics. Higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) is commonly utilized for isobaric tag-labeled peptide fragmentation because it produces accurate reporter ion intensities and avoids loss of low mass ions. HCD energies have been optimized for isobaric tag labeled-peptides but have not been systematically evaluated for isobaric tag-labeled intact proteins. In this study, we report a systematic evaluation of normalized HCD fragmentation energies (NCEs) on TMT-labeled HeLa cell lysate using top-down proteomics. Our results suggested that reporter ions often result in higher ion intensities at higher NCEs. Optimal fragmentation of intact proteins for identification, however, required relatively lower NCE. We further demonstrated that a stepped NCE scheme with energies from 30% to 50% resulted in optimal quantification and identification of TMT-labeled HeLa proteins. These parameters resulted in an average reporter ion intensity of ~4E4 and average proteoform spectrum matches (PrSMs) of >1000 per RPLC-MS/MS run with a 1% false discovery rate (FDR) cutoff.
PXD022476	36603763	Monitoring mitochondrial translation by pulse SILAC. 	Quantification of mitochondrial translation by pulse SILAC	Mitochondria, SILAC, ribosome, translation	Mitochondrial ribosomes are specialized to translate the 13 membrane proteins encoded in the mitochondrial genome, which shapes the oxidative phosphorylation complexes essential for cellular energy metabolism. Despite the importance of mitochondrial translation (MT) control, it is challenging to identify and quantify the mitochondrial-encoded proteins because of their hydrophobic nature and low abundance. Here, we introduce a mass spectrometry-based proteomic method that combines biochemical isolation of mitochondria with pulse stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture. Our method provides the highest protein identification rate with the shortest measurement time among currently available methods, enabling us to quantify 12 of the 13 mitochondrial-encoded proteins. We applied this method to uncover the global picture of (post-)translational regulation of both mitochondrial- and nuclear-encoded subunits of oxidative phosphorylation complexes. We found that inhibition of MT led to degradation of orphan nuclear-encoded subunits that are considered to form subcomplexes with the mitochondrial-encoded subunits. This method should be readily applicable to study MT programs in many contexts, including oxidative stress and mitochondrial disease.
PXD037238	36604593	ZFP462 safeguards neural lineage specification by targeting G9A/GLP-mediated heterochromatin to silence enhancers. 	ZFP462 safeguards neural lineage specification by targeting G9A/GLP-mediated heterochromatin to silence enhancers	ZFP462, lineage specification and heterochromatin, stem cells, transcription factors	ZNF462 haploinsufficiency is linked to Weiss-Kruszka syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by neurodevelopmental defects, including autism. Though conserved in vertebrates and essential for embryonic development, the molecular functions of ZNF462 remain unclear. We identified its murine homologue ZFP462 in a screen for mediators of epigenetic gene silencing. Here we show that ZFP462 safeguards neural lineage specification of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) by targeting the H3K9-specific histone methyltransferase complex G9A/GLP to silence meso-endodermal genes. ZFP462 binds to transposable elements that are potential enhancers harbouring pluripotency and meso-endoderm transcription factor binding sites. Recruiting G9A/GLP, ZFP462 seeds heterochromatin, restricting transcription factor binding. Loss of ZFP462 in ESCs results in increased chromatin accessibility at target sites and ectopic expression of meso-endodermal genes. Taken together, ZFP462 confers lineage and locus specificity to the broadly expressed epigenetic regulator G9A/GLP. Our results suggest that aberrant activation of lineage non-specific genes in the neuronal lineage underlies ZNF462-associated neurodevelopmental pathology.
PXD038703	36604600	Spectrin-beta 2 facilitates the selective accumulation of GABAA receptors at somatodendritic synapses. 	Spectrin-beta 2 facilitates the selective accumulation of GABAA receptors at somatodendritic synapses	AIS, GABA A Receptors, Spectrins	Fast synaptic inhibition is dependent on targeting specific GABAAR subtypes to dendritic and axon initial segment (AIS) synapses. Synaptic GABAARs are typically assembled from alpha1-3, beta and gamma subunits. Here, we isolate distinct GABAARs from the brain and interrogate their composition using quantitative proteomics. We show that alpha2-containing receptors co-assemble with alpha1 subunits, whereas alpha1 receptors can form GABAARs with alpha1 as the sole alpha subunit. We demonstrate that alpha1 and alpha2 subunit-containing receptors co-purify with distinct spectrin isoforms; cytoskeletal proteins that link transmembrane proteins to the cytoskeleton. beta2-spectrin was preferentially associated with alpha1-containing GABAARs at dendritic synapses, while beta4-spectrin was associated with alpha2-containing GABAARs at AIS synapses. Ablating beta2-spectrin expression reduced dendritic and AIS synapses containing alpha1 but increased the number of synapses containing alpha2, which altered phasic inhibition. Thus, we demonstrate a role for spectrins in the synapse-specific targeting of GABAARs, determining the efficacy of fast neuronal inhibition.
PXD037825	36604972	Proteomics analysis reveals that CirA in Aeromonas hydrophila is involved in nutrient uptake. 	Proteomics analysis reveals that the colicin I receptor CirA is involved in nutrient uptake by Aeromonas hydrophila	Aeromonas hydrophila, ahcirA, colicin I receptor, nutrient uptake	The colicin I receptor (CirA) is a well-studied outer membrane protein that has been reported to play important roles in antibiotic resistance, virulence, and iron homeostasis, although its exact physiological roles require further investigation. In this study, differentially expressed proteins between the DeltaahcirA and wild-type (WT) strains of Aeromonas hydrophila were compared using quantitative proteomics. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the expression of peptide, histidine, and arginine ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter system-related proteins was significantly higher in the DeltaahcirA strain. Subsequent growth assays revealed that DeltaahcirA grew slower than the WT strain in nutrient-limited medium when supplemented with dipeptide, histidine, and arginine as the carbon source. Far-western blot analysis further confirmed that AhCirA can directly bind to histidine/arginine and dipeptide small-molecule substrates in addition to their periplasmic-binding proteins, AhDppA and AhHisJ, respectively. These results indicate that AhCirA may play an important role in the uptake of amino acids and peptides as a channel-forming porin while also directly interacting with ABC transporters to transport nutrient substances into the plasma membrane. Overall, this study demonstrates that AhCirA is a multifunctional protein in A. hydrophila and extends our understanding of known nutrient transport mechanisms among bacteria.
PXD035625	36605018	Distinct conformational changes occur within the intrinsically unstructured pro-domain of pro-Nerve Growth Factor in the presence of ATP and Mg(2). 	Effects of ATP binding on the conformational flexibility of proNGF	HDX-MS, proNGF	Nerve growth factor (NGF), the prototypical neurotrophic factor, is involved in the maintenance and growth of specific neuronal populations, whereas its precursor, proNGF, is involved in neuronal apoptosis. Binding of NGF or proNGF to TrkA, p75(NTR) , and VP10p receptors triggers complex intracellular signaling pathways that can be modulated by endogenous small-molecule ligands. Here, we show by isothermal titration calorimetry and NMR that ATP binds to the intrinsically disordered pro-peptide of proNGF with a micromolar dissociation constant. We demonstrate that Mg(2+) , known to play a physiological role in neurons, modulates the ATP/proNGF interaction. An integrative structural biophysics analysis by small angle X-ray scattering and hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry unveils that ATP binding induces a conformational rearrangement of the flexible pro-peptide domain of proNGF. This suggests that ATP may act as an allosteric modulator of the overall proNGF conformation, whose likely distinct biological activity may ultimately affect its physiological homeostasis.
PXD033354	36608581	The plasma membrane-associated cation-binding protein PCaP1 of Arabidopsis thaliana is a uranyl-binding protein. 	Proteomic analysis of fractions of Arabidopsis thaliana proteins captured by immobilized metal affinity chromatography	Fractionation, Interaction, Metal, Plant, Purification	Uranium (U) is a naturally-occurring radionuclide that is toxic to living organisms. Given that proteins are primary targets of U(VI), their identification is an essential step towards understanding the mechanisms of radionuclide toxicity, and possibly detoxification. Here, we implemented a chromatographic strategy including immobilized metal affinity chromatography to trap protein targets of uranyl in Arabidopsis thaliana. This procedure allowed the identification of 38 uranyl-binding proteins (UraBPs) from root and shoot extracts. Among them, UraBP25, previously identified as plasma membrane-associated cation-binding protein 1 (PCaP1), was further characterized as a protein interacting in vitro with U(VI) and other metals using spectroscopic and structural approaches, and in planta through analyses of the fate of U(VI) in Arabidopsis lines with altered PCaP1 gene expression. Our results showed that recombinant PCaP1 binds U(VI) in vitro with affinity in the nM range, as well as Cu(II) and Fe(III) in high proportions, and that Ca(II) competes with U(VI) for binding. U(VI) induces PCaP1 oligomerization through binding at the monomer interface, at both the N-terminal structured domain and the C-terminal flexible region. Finally, U(VI) translocation in Arabidopsis shoots was affected in pcap1 null-mutant, suggesting a role for this protein in ion trafficking in planta.
PXD034709	36609502	Benchmarking commonly used software suites and analysis workflows for DIA proteomics and phosphoproteomics. 	Benchmarking commonly used software suites and analysis workflows for DIA proteomics and phosphoproteomics	Benchmarking, DIA, global proteomics, phosphoproteomics	A plethora of software suites and multiple classes of spectral libraries have been developed to enhance the depth and robustness of data-independent acquisition (DIA) data processing. However, how the combination of a DIA software tool and a spectral library impacts the outcome of DIA proteomics and phosphoproteomics data analysis has been rarely investigated using benchmark data that mimics biological complexity. In this study, we create DIA benchmark data sets simulating the regulation of thousands of proteins in a complex background, which are collected on both an Orbitrap and a timsTOF instruments. We evaluate four commonly used software suites (DIA-NN, Spectronaut, MaxDIA and Skyline) combined with seven different spectral libraries in global proteome analysis. Moreover, we assess their performances in analyzing phosphopeptide standards and TNF-alpha-induced phosphoproteome regulation. Our study provides a practical guidance on how to construct a robust data analysis pipeline for different proteomics studies implementing the DIA technique.
PXD037935	36609505	Disruption of mitochondrial dynamics triggers muscle inflammation through interorganellar contacts and mitochondrial DNA mislocation. 	Disruption of mitochondrial dynamics triggers muscle inflammation through interorganellar contacts and mtDNA mislocation	DNA sensors, atrophy, endosomes, inflammation, mitochondrial dynamics, mtDNA, muscle	Some forms of mitochondrial dysfunction induce sterile inflammation through mitochondrial DNA recognition by intracellular DNA sensors. However, the involvement of mitochondrial dynamics in mitigating such processes and their impact on muscle fitness remain unaddressed. Here we report that opposite mitochondrial morphologies induce distinct inflammatory signatures, caused by differential activation of DNA sensors TLR9 or cGAS. In the context of mitochondrial fragmentation, we demonstrate that mitochondria-endosome contacts mediated by the endosomal protein Rab5C are required in TLR9 activation in cells. Skeletal muscle mitochondrial fragmentation promotes TLR9-dependent inflammation, muscle atrophy, reduced physical performance and enhanced IL6 response to exercise, which improved upon chronic anti-inflammatory treatment. Taken together, our data demonstrate that mitochondrial dynamics is key in preventing sterile inflammatory responses, which precede the development of muscle atrophy and impaired physical performance. Thus, we propose the targeting of mitochondrial dynamics as an approach to treating disorders characterized by chronic inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction.
PXD038748	36609561	COVID-19-associated monocytic encephalitis (CAME): histological and proteomic evidence from autopsy. 	COVID-19-associated monocytic encephalitis (CAME): histological and proteomic evidence from autopsy	Autopsy, COVID-19, Encephalitis	Severe neurological symptoms are associated with Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). However, the morphologic features, pathological nature and their potential mechanisms in patient brains have not been revealed despite evidence of neurotropic infection. In this study, neuropathological damages and infiltrating inflammatory cells were quantitatively evaluated by immunohistochemical staining, ultrastructural examination under electron microscopy, and an image threshold method, in postmortem brains from nine critically ill COVID-19 patients and nine age-matched cadavers of healthy individuals. Differentially expressed proteins were identified by quantitative proteomic assays. Histopathological findings included neurophagocytosis, microglia nodules, satellite phenomena, extensive edema, focal hemorrhage, and infarction, as well as infiltrating mononuclear cells. Immunostaining of COVID-19 brains revealed extensive activation of both microglia and astrocytes, severe damage of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and various degrees of perivascular infiltration by predominantly CD14+/CD16+/CD141+/CCR7+/CD11c+ monocytes and occasionally CD4+/CD8+ T lymphocytes. Quantitative proteomic assays combined with bioinformatics analysis identified upregulated proteins predominantly involved in immune responses, autophagy and cellular metabolism in COVID-19 patient brains compared with control brains. Proteins involved in brain development, neuroprotection, and extracellular matrix proteins of the basement membrane were downregulated, potentially caused by the activation of transforming growth factor beta receptor and vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathways. Thus, our results define histopathological and molecular profiles of COVID-19-associated monocytic encephalitis (CAME) and suggest potential therapeutic targets.
PXD037706	36609913	Membrane Protein Modification Modulates Big and Small Extracellular Vesicle Biodistribution and Tumorigenic Potential in Breast Cancers In Vivo. 	Membrane Protein Modification Modulates Big and Small Extracellular Vesicle Biodistribution and Tumorigenic Potential in Breast Cancers in vivo	Extracellular vesicle, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released by cells to mediate intercellular communication under pathological and physiological conditions. While small EVs (sEVs; <100-200 nm, exosomes) are intensely investigated, the properties and functions of medium and large EVs (big EVs (bEVs); >200 nm, microvesicles) are less well explored. Here, bEVs and sEVs are identified as distinct EV populations, and it is determined that bEVs are released in a greater bEV:sEV ratio in the aggressive human triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) subtype. PalmGRET, bioluminescence-resonance-energy-transfer (BRET)-based EV reporter, reveals dose-dependent EV biodistribution at nonlethal and physiological EV dosages, as compared to lipophilic fluorescent dyes. Remarkably, the bEVs and sEVs exhibit unique biodistribution profiles, yet individually promote in vivo tumor growth in a syngeneic immunocompetent TNBC breast tumor murine model. The bEVs and sEVs share mass-spectrometry-identified tumor-progression-associated EV surface membrane proteins (tpEVSurfMEMs), which include solute carrier family 29 member 1, Cd9, and Cd44. tpEVSurfMEM depletion attenuates EV lung organotropism, alters biodistribution, and reduces protumorigenic potential. This study identifies distinct in vivo property and function of bEVs and sEVs in breast cancer, which suggest the significant role of bEVs in diseases, diagnostic and therapeutic applications.
PXD033974	36610523	Early adipogenesis is repressed through the newly identified FHL2-NFAT5 signaling complex. 	Early adipogenesis is repressed through the newly identified FHL2-NFAT5 signaling complex	FHL2, NFAT5, adipocyte, protein-protein interaction	The LIM-domain-only protein FHL2 is a modulator of signal transduction and has been shown to direct the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells towards osteoblast and myocyte phenotypes. We hypothesized that FHL2 may simultaneously interfere with the induction of the adipocyte lineage. Therefore, we investigated the role of FHL2 in adipocyte differentiation. For these studies pre-adipocytes isolated from mouse adipose tissue and the 3T3-L1 (pre)adipocyte cell line were applied. We performed FHL2 gain of function and knockdown experiments followed by extensive RNAseq analyses and phenotypic characterization of the cells by oil-red O (ORO) lipid staining. Through affinity-purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS) novel FHL2 interacting proteins were identified. Here we report that FHL2 is expressed in pre-adipocytes and for accurate adipocyte differentiation, this protein needs to be downregulated during the early stages of adipogenesis. More specifically, constitutive overexpression of FHL2 drastically inhibits adipocyte differentiation in 3T3-L1 cells, which was demonstrated by suppressed activation of the adipogenic gene expression program as shown by RNAseq analyses, and diminished lipid accumulation. Analysis of the protein-protein interactions mediating this repressive activity of FHL2 on adipogenesis revealed the interaction of FHL2 with the Nuclear factor of activated T-cells 5 (NFAT5). NFAT5 is an established inhibitor of adipocyte differentiation and its knockdown rescued the inhibitory effect of FHL2 overexpression on 3T3-L1 differentiation, indicating that these proteins act cooperatively. We present a new regulatory function of FHL2 in early adipocyte differentiation and revealed that FHL2-mediated inhibition of pre-adipocyte differentiation is dependent on its interaction with NFAT5. FHL2 expression increases with aging, which may affect mesenchymal stem cell differentiation, more specifically inhibit adipocyte differentiation.
PXD033388	36611846	CLPP Depletion Causes Diplotene Arrest; Underlying Testis Mitochondrial Dysfunction Occurs with Accumulation of Perrault Proteins ERAL1, PEO1, and HARS2. 	ClpP-deletion causes azoospermia, with meiosis-I delay and insufficient biosynthesis of spermatid factors, due to mitochondrial dysfunction with accumulation of Perrault proteins ERAL1, PEO1, and HARS2.	H3K9ac, RMND1, Twinkle helicase, acetyl-tubulin, cGAS-STING signaling, homologous recombination, meiosis-I, tRNA /rRNA processing, zygotene-pachytene	Human Perrault syndrome (PRLTS) is autosomal, recessively inherited, and characterized by ovarian insufficiency with hearing loss. Among the genetic causes are mutations of matrix peptidase CLPP, which trigger additional azoospermia. Here, we analyzed the impact of CLPP deficiency on male mouse meiosis stages. Histology, immunocytology, different OMICS and biochemical approaches, and RT-qPCR were employed in CLPP-null mouse testis. Meiotic chromosome pairing and synapsis proceeded normally. However, the foci number of the crossover marker MLH1 was slightly reduced, and foci persisted in diplotene, most likely due to premature desynapsis, associated with an accumulation of the DNA damage marker gammaH2AX. No meiotic M-phase cells were detected. Proteome profiles identified strong deficits of proteins involved in male meiotic prophase (HSPA2, SHCBP1L, DMRT7, and HSF5), versus an accumulation of AURKAIP1. Histone H3 cleavage, mtDNA extrusion, and cGAMP increase suggested innate immunity activation. However, the deletion of downstream STING/IFNAR failed to alleviate pathology. As markers of underlying mitochondrial pathology, we observed an accumulation of PRLTS proteins ERAL1, PEO1, and HARS2. We propose that the loss of CLPP leads to the extrusion of mitochondrial nucleotide-binding proteins to cytosol and nucleus, affecting late meiotic prophase progression, and causing cell death prior to M-phase entry. This phenotype is more severe than in mito-mice or mutator-mice.
PXD038665	36611872	Beneficial Effect of ACI-24 Vaccination on Abeta Plaque Pathology and Microglial Phenotypes in an Amyloidosis Mouse Model. 	Beneficial effect of ACI-24 vaccination on microglial phenotypes in an amyloidosis mouse model	Alzheimer, Microglia, Vaccination	Amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition is an initiating factor in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Microglia are the brain immune cells that surround and phagocytose Abeta plaques, but their phagocytic capacity declines in AD. This is in agreement with studies that associate AD risk loci with genes regulating the phagocytic function of immune cells. Immunotherapies are currently pursued as strategies against AD and there are increased efforts to understand the role of the immune system in ameliorating AD pathology. Here, we evaluated the effect of the Abeta targeting ACI-24 vaccine in reducing AD pathology in an amyloidosis mouse model. ACI-24 vaccination elicited a robust and sustained antibody response in APPPS1 mice with an accompanying reduction of Abeta plaque load, Abeta plaque-associated ApoE and dystrophic neurites as compared to non-vaccinated controls. Furthermore, an increased number of NLRP3-positive plaque-associated microglia was observed following ACI-24 vaccination. In contrast to this local microglial activation at Abeta plaques, we observed a more ramified morphology of Abeta plaque-distant microglia compared to non-vaccinated controls. Accordingly, bulk transcriptomic analysis revealed a trend towards the reduced expression of several disease-associated microglia (DAM) signatures that is in line with the reduced Abeta plaque load triggered by ACI-24 vaccination. Our study demonstrates that administration of the Abeta targeting vaccine ACI-24 reduces AD pathology, suggesting its use as a safe and cost-effective AD therapeutic intervention.
PXD036962	36611998	Comparative Proteomic and Transcriptomic Analysis of the Impact of Androgen Stimulation and Darolutamide Inhibition. 	Comparative proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of the impact of androgen stimulation and darolutamide inhibition on prostate cancer cells	Andrigen receptor signalling, VCaP, darolutamide	Several inhibitors of androgen receptor (AR) function are approved for prostate cancer treatment, and their impact on gene transcription has been described. However, the ensuing effects at the protein level are far less well understood. We focused on the AR signaling inhibitor darolutamide and confirmed its strong AR binding and antagonistic activity using the high throughput cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA HT). Then, we generated comprehensive, quantitative proteomic data from the androgen-sensitive prostate cancer cell line VCaP and compared them to transcriptomic data. Following treatment with the synthetic androgen R1881 and darolutamide, global mass spectrometry-based proteomics and label-free quantification were performed. We found a generally good agreement between proteomic and transcriptomic data upon androgen stimulation and darolutamide inhibition. Similar effects were found both for the detected expressed genes and their protein products as well as for the corresponding biological programs. However, in a few instances there was a discrepancy in the magnitude of changes induced on gene expression levels compared to the corresponding protein levels, indicating post-transcriptional regulation of protein abundance. Chromatin immunoprecipitation DNA sequencing (ChIP-seq) and Hi-C chromatin immunoprecipitation (HiChIP) revealed the presence of androgen-activated AR-binding regions and long-distance AR-mediated loops at these genes.
PXD038871	36612172	Extracellular Vesicle Membrane Protein Profiling and Targeted Mass Spectrometry Unveil CD59 and Tetraspanin 9 as Novel Plasma Biomarkers for Detection of Colorectal Cancer. 	Extracellular vesicle membrane protein profiling and targeted mass spectrometry unveil novel plasma biomarkers for detection of colorectal cancer	AIMS, Colorectal cancer, extracellular vesicles, iTRAQ, membrane protein, targeted mass spectrometry	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are valuable sources for the discovery of useful cancer biomarkers. This study explores the potential usefulness of tumor cell-derived EV membrane proteins as plasma biomarkers for early detection of colorectal cancer (CRC). EVs were isolated from the culture supernatants of four CRC cell lines by ultracentrifugation, and their protein profiles were analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Bioinformatics analysis of identified proteins revealed 518 EV membrane proteins in common among at least three CRC cell lines. We next used accurate inclusion mass screening (AIMS) in parallel with iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis to highlight candidate proteins and validated their presence in pooled plasma-generated EVs from 30 healthy controls and 30 CRC patients. From these, we chose 14 potential EV-derived targets for further quantification by targeted MS assay in a separate individual cohort comprising of 73 CRC and 80 healthy subjects. Quantitative analyses revealed significant increases in ADAM10, CD59 and TSPAN9 levels (2.19- to 5.26-fold, p < 0.0001) in plasma EVs from CRC patients, with AUC values of 0.83, 0.95 and 0.87, respectively. Higher EV CD59 levels were significantly correlated with distant metastasis (p = 0.0475), and higher EV TSPAN9 levels were significantly associated with lymph node metastasis (p = 0.0011), distant metastasis at diagnosis (p = 0.0104) and higher TNM stage (p = 0.0065). A two-marker panel consisting of CD59 and TSPAN9 outperformed the conventional marker CEA in discriminating CRC and stage I/II CRC patients from healthy controls, with AUC values of 0.98 and 0.99, respectively. Our results identify EV membrane proteins in common among CRC cell lines and altered plasma EV protein profiles in CRC patients and suggest plasma EV CD59 and TSPAN9 as a novel biomarker panel for detecting early-stage CRC.
PXD036168	36613609	Presence of Ceramidase Activity in Electronegative LDL. 	Presence of ceramidase activity in electronegative LDL	ceramidase, ceramide, electronegative LDL, sphingomyelinase, sphingosine	Electronegative low-density lipoprotein (LDL(-)) is a minor modified fraction of human plasma LDL with several atherogenic properties. Among them is increased bioactive lipid mediator content, such as lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA), ceramide (Cer), and sphingosine (Sph), which are related to the presence of some phospholipolytic activities, including platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH), phospholipase C (PLC), and sphingomyelinase (SMase), in LDL(-). However, these enzymes' activities do not explain the increased Sph content, which typically derives from Cer degradation. In the present study, we analyzed the putative presence of ceramidase (CDase) activity, which could explain the increased Sph content. Thin layer chromatography (TLC) and lipidomic analysis showed that Cer, Sph, and NEFA spontaneously increased in LDL(-) incubated alone at 37 degreesC, in contrast with native LDL(+). An inhibitor of neutral CDase prevented the formation of Sph and, in turn, increased Cer content in LDL(-). In addition, LDL(-) efficiently degraded fluorescently labeled Cer (NBD-Cer) to form Sph and NEFA. These observations defend the existence of the CDase-like activity's association with LDL(-). However, neither the proteomic analysis nor the Western blot detected the presence of an enzyme with known CDase activity. Further studies are thus warranted to define the origin of the CDase-like activity detected in LDL(-).
PXD036862	36614003	HIF-1alpha-Dependent Metabolic Reprogramming, Oxidative Stress, and Bioenergetic Dysfunction in SARS-CoV-2-Infected Hamsters. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of COVID-19 infected hamster lung tissue	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, lung tissue	The mechanistic interplay between SARS-CoV-2 infection, inflammation, and oxygen homeostasis is not well defined. Here, we show that the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1alpha) transcriptional pathway is activated, perhaps due to a lack of oxygen or an accumulation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the lungs of adult Syrian hamsters infected with SARS-CoV-2. Prominent nuclear localization of HIF-1alpha and increased expression of HIF-1alpha target proteins, including glucose transporter 1 (Glut1), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase-1 (PDK1), were observed in areas of lung consolidation filled with infiltrating monocytes/macrophages. Upregulation of these HIF-1alpha target proteins was accompanied by a rise in glycolysis as measured by extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) in lung homogenates. A concomitant reduction in mitochondrial respiration was also observed as indicated by a partial loss of oxygen consumption rates (OCR) in isolated mitochondrial fractions of SARS-CoV-2-infected hamster lungs. Proteomic analysis further revealed specific deficits in the mitochondrial ATP synthase (Atp5a1) within complex V and in the ATP/ADP translocase (Slc25a4). The activation of HIF-1alpha in inflammatory macrophages may also drive proinflammatory cytokine production and complement activation and oxidative stress in infected lungs. Together, these findings support a role for HIF-1alpha as a central mediator of the metabolic reprogramming, inflammation, and bioenergetic dysfunction associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD008053	36614311	Integrative Proteome Analysis Revels 3-Hydroxybutyrate Exerts Neuroprotective Effect by Influencing Chromatin Bivalency. 	Mice Hippocampus neuron HT22 LC-MS	HT22, Histone lysine hydroxybutyrylation, Mice, beta-hydroxybutyrate, bivalent chromatin, central nervous system, neuron, transcriptomics	3-hydroxybutyrate (3OHB) has been proved to act as a neuroprotective molecule in multiple neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we employed a quantitative proteomics approach to assess the changes of the global protein expression pattern of neural cells upon 3OHB administration. In combination with a disease-related, protein-protein interaction network we pinpointed a hub marker, histone lysine 27 trimethylation, which is one of the key epigenetic markers in multiple neurodegenerative diseases. Integrative analysis of transcriptomic and epigenomic datasets highlighted the involvement of bivalent transcription factors in 3OHB-mediated disease protection and its alteration of neuronal development processes. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that 3OHB impaired the fate decision process of neural precursor cells by repressing differentiation and promoting proliferation. Our study provides a new mechanism of 3OHB's neuroprotective effect, in which chromatin bivalency is sensitive to 3OHB alteration and drives its neuroprotective function both in neurodegenerative diseases and in neural development processes.
PXD038609	36616175	Multiomic Approaches Reveal Hormonal Modulation and Nitrogen Uptake and Assimilation in the Initial Growth of Maize Inoculated with Herbaspirillum seropedicae. 	Multiomic approaches reveal hormonal modulation and nitrogen uptake and assimilation on the initial growth of maize inoculated with Herbaspirillum seropedicae	Herbaspirillum spp., biofertilizer, biostimulation, diazotrophs, endophytic bacteria, plant-growth promotion	Herbaspirillum seropedicae is an endophytic bacterium that can fix nitrogen and synthesize phytohormones, which can lead to a plant growth-promoting effect when used as a microbial inoculant. Studies focused on mechanisms of action are crucial for a better understanding of the bacteria-plant interaction and optimization of plant growth-promoting response. This work aims to understand the underlined mechanisms responsible for the early stimulatory growth effects of H. seropedicae inoculation in maize. To perform these studies, we combined transcriptomic and proteomic approaches with physiological analysis. The results obtained eight days after inoculation (d.a.i) showed increased root biomass (233 and 253%) and shoot biomass (249 and 264%), respectively, for the fresh and dry mass of maize-inoculated seedlings and increased green content and development. Omics data analysis, before a positive biostimulation phenotype (5 d.a.i.) revealed that inoculation increases N-uptake and N-assimilation machinery through differentially expressed nitrate transporters and amino acid pathways, as well carbon/nitrogen metabolism integration by the tricarboxylic acid cycle and the polyamine pathway. Additionally, phytohormone levels of root and shoot tissues increased in bacterium-inoculated-maize plants, leading to feedback regulation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. The early biostimulatory effect of H. seropedicae partially results from hormonal modulation coupled with efficient nutrient uptake-assimilation and a boost in primary anabolic metabolism of carbon-nitrogen integrative pathways.
PXD032311	36617516	Targeting Ligand Independent Tropism of siRNA-LNP by Small Molecules for Directed Therapy of Liver or Myeloid Immune Cells. 	Analysis of the role of the proteome on lipid nanoparticle distribution	DIA, liver, serum	Hepatic clearance of lipid nanoparticles (LNP) with encapsulated nucleic acids restricts their therapeutic applicability. Therefore, tools for regulating hepatic clearance are of high interest for nucleic acid delivery. To this end, this work employs wild-type (WT) and low-density lipoprotein receptor (Ldlr)(-/-) mice pretreated with either a leukotriene B4 receptor inhibitor (BLT1i) or a high-density lipoprotein receptor inhibitor (HDLRi) prior to the injection of siRNA-LNP. This work is able to demonstrate significantly increased hepatic uptake of siRNA-LNP by the BLT1i in Ldlr(-/-) mice by in vivo imaging and discover an induction of specific uptake-related proteins. Irrespective of the inhibitors and Ldlr deficiency, the siRNA-LNP induced RNA-binding and transport-related proteins in liver, including haptoglobin (HP) that is also identified as most upregulated serum protein. This work observes a downregulation of proteins functioning in hepatic detoxification and of serum opsonins. Most strikingly, the HDLRi reduces hepatic uptake and increases siRNA accumulation in spleen and myeloid immune cells of blood and liver. RNA sequencing demonstrates leukocyte recruitment by the siRNA-LNP and the HDLRi through induction of chemokine ligands in liver tissue. The data provide insights into key mechanisms of siRNA-LNP biodistribution and indicate that the HDLRi has potential for extrahepatic and leukocyte targeting.
PXD024554	36617674	Proteomics-based determination of double-stranded RNA interactome reveals known and new factors involved in Sindbis virus infection. 	Determination of dsRNA interactome upon Sindbis virus infection in human cells identifies SFPQ as a critical proviral factor	RBP, SFPQ, Sindbis virus, dsRNA, dsRNAome	Viruses are obligate intracellular parasites, which depend on the host cellular machineries to replicate their genome and complete their infectious cycle. Long double-stranded (ds)RNA is a common viral by-product originating during RNA virus replication and is universally sensed as a danger signal to trigger the antiviral response. As a result, viruses hide dsRNA intermediates into viral replication factories and have evolved strategies to hijack cellular proteins for their benefit. The characterization of the host factors associated with viral dsRNA and involved in viral replication remains a major challenge to develop new antiviral drugs against RNA viruses. Here, we performed anti-dsRNA immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry analysis to fully characterize the dsRNA interactome in Sindbis virus (SINV) infected human cells. Among the identified proteins, we characterized SFPQ (splicing factor, proline-glutamine rich) as a new dsRNA-associated proviral factor upon SINV infection. We showed that SFPQ depletion reduces SINV infection in human HCT116 and SK-N-BE(2) cells, suggesting that SFPQ enhances viral production. We demonstrated that the cytoplasmic fraction of SFPQ partially colocalizes with dsRNA upon SINV infection. In agreement, we proved by RNA-IP that SFPQ can bind dsRNA and viral RNA. Furthermore, we showed that overexpression of a wild-type, but not an RNA binding mutant SFPQ, increased viral infection, suggesting that RNA binding is essential for its positive effect on the virus. Overall, this study provides the community with a compendium of dsRNA-associated factors during viral infection and identifies SFPQ as a new proviral dsRNA binding protein.
PXD036066	36618708	Phosphoproteomic analysis identifies differentially expressed phosphorylation sites that affect muscle fiber type in pigs. 	Phosphoproteomic in soleus and biceps femoris muscle	phosphoproteomic, pig	Skeletal muscle of livestock is composed of both fast- and slow-twitch muscle fibers, which are key factors in their meat quality. However, the role of protein phosphorylation in muscle fiber type is not completely understood. Here, a fast-twitch (biceps femoris, BF) and slow-twitch (soleus, SOL) muscle tissue sample was collected from three male offspring of Duroc and Meishan pigs. We demonstrate that the meat quality of SOL muscle is significantly better than that of BF muscle. We further used phosphoproteomic profiling of BF and SOL muscles to identify differences between these muscle types. A total of 2,327 phosphorylation sites from 770 phosphoproteins were identified. Among these sites, 287 differentially expressed phosphorylation sites (DEPSs) were identified between BF and SOL. GO and KEGG enrichment analysis of proteins containing DEPSs showed that these phosphorylated proteins were enriched in the glycolytic process GO term and the AMPK signaling pathway. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis reveals that these phosphorylated proteins interact with each other to regulate the transformation of muscle fiber type. These analyses reveal that protein phosphorylation modifications are involved in porcine skeletal muscle fiber type transformation. This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms by which protein phosphorylation regulates muscle fiber type transformation and meat quality in pigs.
PXD035370	36618918	Proteomic analysis revealed the pharmacological mechanism of Xueshuantong injection in preventing early acute myocardial infarction injury. 	Proteomic analysis reveal pharmacological mechanism of Xueshuantong injection on preventing early acute myocardial infarction injury	Early acute myocardial infarction, Molecular docking, Protective mechanism, Proteomic analysis, Xueshuantong injection	Background: Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is a common and life-threatening cardiovascular disease. However, there is a lack of pathology and drug studies on AMI within 20 min. Xueshuantong injection (XST) is mainly composed of Panax notoginseng saponins, which can dilate blood vessels and improve blood circulation, and is clinically used in the treatment of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. Purpose: The study aimed to investigate the protective mechanism of Xueshuantong injection against acute myocardial infarction within 20 min in rats by proteomic methods and molecular docking. Method: The male Sprague-Dawley rat acute myocardial infarction model was established by LAD ligation, and Xueshuantong injection (38 mg/kg) was injected into the caudal vein 15 min before surgery. Cardiac function evaluation, morphological observation, label-free quantitative proteomics, Western blotting analysis, molecular docking, and affinity measurement were applied in this study. Results: In a span of 20 min after acute myocardial infarction, the model group showed significant cardiac function impairment. Xueshuantong injection can significantly improve cardiac function and prevent pathological injury of myocardial tissue. A total of 117 vital differentially expressed proteins were identified by proteomic analysis, including 80 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the sham group compared with model rats (Sham: model) and 43 DEPs in model rats compared with the Xueshuantong injection group (Model: XST). The treatment of Xueshuantong injection mainly involves "poly(A) RNA binding" and "cadherin binding involved in cell-cell adhesion." The differentially expressed levels of the pathways related to proteins Echdc2, Gcdh, Dlst, and Nampt, as well as 14-3-3 family proteins Ywhaz and Ywhab, could be quantitatively confirmed by WB. Molecular docking analysis and SPR analysis revealed that Ywhaz has a generally stable binding with five Xueshuantong injection components. Conclusion: Xueshuantong injection (XST) could protect rat myocardial function injury against AMI in 20 min. Echdc2, Ywhaz, Gcdh, Ywhab, Nampt, and Dlst play an essential role in this protective effect. In particular, Ywhaz might be the core target of Xueshuantong injection when treating acute myocardial infarction in the early stage. This study promoted the understanding of the protective mechanism of Xueshuantong injection in 20 min injury of acute myocardial infarction and contributed to the identification of possible targets of Xueshuantong injection.
PXD021828	36619857	Bortezomib abrogates temozolomide-induced autophagic flux through an ATG5 dependent pathway. 	Bortezomib abrogates temozolomide-induced autophagic flux and kills glioblastoma cells through an ATG5 and ATG7 dependent pathway	Bortezomib abrogates temozolomide-induced autophagic flux and kills glioblastoma cells through an ATG5 and ATG7 dependent pathway	Introduction: Glioblastoma (GBM) is invariably resistant to temozolomide (TMZ) chemotherapy. Inhibiting the proteasomal pathway is an emerging strategy to accumulate damaged proteins and inhibit their lysosomal degradation. We hypothesized that pre-treatment of glioblastoma with bortezomib (BTZ) might sensitize glioblastoma to temozolomide by abolishing autophagy survival signals to augment DNA damage and apoptosis. Methods: P3 patient-derived glioblastoma cells, as well as the tumour cell lines U87, HF66, A172, and T98G were investigated for clonogenic survival after single or combined treatment with temozolomide and bortezomib in vitro. We investigated the requirement of functional autophagy machinery by utilizing pharmacological inhibitors or CRISPR-Cas9 knockout (KO) of autophagy-related genes -5 and -7 (ATG5 and ATG7) in glioblastoma cells and monitored changes in autophagic flux after temozolomide and/or bortezomib treatments. P3 wild-type and P3 ATG5-/- (ATG5 KO) cells were implanted orthotopically into NOD-SCID mice to assess the efficacy of bortezomib and temozolomide combination therapy with and without functional autophagy machinery. Results: The chemo-resistant glioblastoma cells increased autophagic flux during temozolomide treatment as indicated by increased degradation of long-lived proteins, diminished expression of autophagy markers LC3A/B-II and p62 (SQSTM1), increased co-localisation of LC3A/B-II with STX17, augmented and no induction of apoptosis. In contrast, bortezomib treatment abrogated autophagic flux indicated by the accumulation of LC3A/B-II and p62 (SQSTM1) positive autophagosomes that did not fuse with lysosomes and thus reduced the degradation of long-lived proteins. Bortezomib synergistically enhanced temozolomide efficacy by attenuating cell proliferation, increased DNA double-strand breaks, and apoptosis in an autophagy-dependent manner. Abolishing autophagy in ATG5 KOs reversed the bortezomib-induced toxicity, rescued glioblastoma cell death and reduced animal survival. Discussion: We conclude that bortezomib abrogates temozolomide induced autophagy flux through an ATG5 dependent pathway.
PXD039722	36621767	Proteomics Investigation of Diverse Serological Patterns in COVID-19. 	Proteomics Landscape of Diverse Serological Patterns in COVID-19	COVID-19, IgG, IgM, antibody, longitudinal, serum	Serum antibodies IgM and IgG are elevated during Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) to defend against viral attacks. Atypical results such as negative and abnormally high antibody expression were frequently observed whereas the underlying molecular mechanisms are elusive. In our cohort of 144 COVID-19 patients, 3.5% were both IgM and IgG negative, whereas 29.2% remained only IgM negative. The remaining patients exhibited positive IgM and IgG expression, with 9.3% of them exhibiting over 20-fold higher titers of IgM than the others at their plateau. IgG titers in all of them were significantly boosted after vaccination in the second year. To investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms, we classed the patients into four groups with diverse serological patterns and analyzed their 2-year clinical indicators. Additionally, we collected 111 serum samples for TMTpro-based longitudinal proteomic profiling and characterized 1494 proteins in total. We found that the continuously negative IgM and IgG expression during COVID-19 were associated with mild inflammatory reactions and high T cell responses. Low levels of serum IgD, inferior complement 1 activation of complement cascades, and insufficient cellular immune responses might collectively lead to compensatory serological responses, causing overexpression of IgM. Serum CD163 was positively correlated with antibody titers during seroconversion. This study suggests that patients with negative serology still developed cellular immunity for viral defense and that high titers of IgM might not be favorable to COVID-19 recovery.
PXD034269	36621768	Quantification and Proteomic Characterization of beta-Hydroxybutyrylation Modification in the Hearts of AMPKalpha2 Knockout Mice. 	Mouse Cardiac Proteomics and  beta-hydroxybutyrylation  omics Studies	heart, beta-hydroxybutyrylation modification omics	AMP-activated protein kinase alpha 2 (AMPKalpha2) regulates energy metabolism, protein synthesis, and glucolipid metabolism myocardial cells. Ketone bodies produced by fatty acid beta-oxidation, especially beta-hydroxybutyrate, are fatty energy-supplying substances for the heart, brain, and other organs during fasting and long-term exercise. They also regulate metabolic signaling for multiple cellular functions. Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb) is a beta-hydroxybutyrate-mediated protein posttranslational modification. Histone Kbhb has been identified in yeast, mouse, and human cells. However, whether AMPK regulates protein Kbhb is yet unclear. Hence, the present study explored the changes in proteomics and Kbhb modification omics in the hearts of AMPKalpha2 knockout mice using a comprehensive quantitative proteomic analysis. Based on mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis, the number of 1181 Kbhb modified sites in 455 proteins were quantified between AMPKalpha2 knockout mice and wildtype mice; 244 Kbhb sites in 142 proteins decreased or increased after AMPKalpha2 knockout (fold change >1.5 or <1/1.5, p < 0.05). The regulation of Kbhb sites in 26 key enzymes of fatty acid degradation and tricarboxylic acid cycle was noted in AMPKalpha2 knockout mouse cardiomyocytes. These findings, for the first time, identified proteomic features and Kbhb modification of cardiomyocytes after AMPKalpha2 knockout, suggesting that AMPKalpha2 regulates energy metabolism by modifying protein Kbhb.
PXD026929	36624516	Tumor-secreted exosomal miR-141 activates tumor-stroma interactions and controls premetastatic niche formation in ovarian cancer metastasis. 	miR141 Proteomic profile in Ovarian Cancer	Exosome, LFQ	BACKGROUND: Metastatic colonization is one of the critical steps in tumor metastasis. A pre-metastatic niche is required for metastatic colonization and is determined by tumor-stroma interactions, yet the mechanistic underpinnings remain incompletely understood. METHODS: PCR-based miRNome profiling, qPCR, immunofluorescent analyses evaluated the expression of exosomal miR-141 and cell-to-cell communication. LC-MS/MS proteomic profiling and Dual-Luciferase analyses identified YAP1 as the direct target of miR-141. Human cytokine profiling, ChIP, luciferase reporter assays, and subcellular fractionation analyses confirmed YAP1 in modulating GROalpha production. A series of in vitro tumorigenic assays, an ex vivo model and Yap1 stromal conditional knockout (cKO) mouse model demonstrated the roles of miR-141/YAP1/GROalpha/CXCR1/2 signaling cascade. RNAi, CRISPR/Cas9 and CRISPRi systems were used for gene silencing. Blood sera, OvCa tumor tissue samples, and tissue array were included for clinical correlations. RESULTS: Hsa-miR-141-3p (miR-141), an exosomal miRNA, is highly secreted by ovarian cancer cells and reprograms stromal fibroblasts into proinflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), facilitating metastatic colonization. A mechanistic study showed that miR-141 targeted YAP1, a critical effector of the Hippo pathway, reducing the nuclear YAP1/TAZ ratio and enhancing GROalpha production from stromal fibroblasts. Stromal-specific knockout (cKO) of Yap1 in murine models shaped the GROalpha-enriched microenvironment, facilitating in vivo tumor colonization, but this effect was reversed after Cxcr1/2 depletion in OvCa cells. The YAP1/GROalpha correlation was demonstrated in clinical samples, highlighting the clinical relevance of this research and providing a potential therapeutic intervention for impeding premetastatic niche formation and metastatic progression of ovarian cancers. CONCLUSIONS: This study uncovers miR-141 as an OvCa-derived exosomal microRNA mediating the tumor-stroma interactions and the formation of tumor-promoting stromal niche through activating YAP1/GROalpha/CXCRs signaling cascade, providing new insight into therapy for OvCa patients with peritoneal metastases.
PXD036897	36625099	Identification of salivary autoantibodies as biomarkers of oral cancer with immunoglobulin A enrichment combined with affinity mass spectrometry. 	Identification of salivary autoantibodies as biomarkers of oral cancer with IgA enrichment combined with affinity mass spectrometry	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, autoantibody, biomarker, oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma, saliva	Globally, oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most common fatal illnesses. Its high mortality is ascribed to the fact that the disease is often diagnosed at a late stage, which indicates an urgent need for approaches for the early detection of OSCC. The use of salivary autoantibodies (autoAbs) as OSCC biomarkers has numerous advantages such as easy access to saliva samples and efficient detection of autoAbs using well-established secondary reagents. To improve OSCC screening, we identified OSCC-associated autoAbs with the enrichment of salivary autoAbs combined with affinity mass spectrometry (MS). The salivary IgA of healthy individuals and OSCC patients was purified with peptide M-conjugated beads and then applied to immunoprecipitated antigens (Ags) in OSCC cells. Using tandem MS analysis and spectral counting-based quantitation, the level of 10 Ags increased in the OSCC group compared with the control group. Moreover, salivary levels of autoAbs to the 10 Ags were determined by a multiplexed bead-based immunoassay. Among them, seven were significantly higher in early-stage OSCC patients than in healthy individuals. A marker panel consisting of autoAbs to LMAN2, PTGR1, RAB13, and UQCRC2 was further developed to improve the early diagnosis of OSCC.
PXD037371	36625413	Global profiling of protein lysine lactylation and potential target modified protein analysis in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Global profiling of protein lysine lactylation in hepatocellular carcinoma	HCC, biological process, lysine lactylation, post-translational modification, protein modification omics	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common type of primary liver cancer, often metastasizes to the lungs. The implications of lysine lactylation (Kla), a recently identified histone post-translational modification (PTM), in the pathology of HCC remain unclear. Here, we report the first proteomic survey of this specific modification in HCC (with no metastasis during 3 years of follow-up), normal liver tissues, and lung metastasis samples of HCC. Of the 2045 modification sites detected on 960 proteins, 1438 sites on 772 proteins contained quantitative information. Subsequently, we analyzed the differentially modified proteins among the different groups. Differentially lactylated proteins were found to be involved in several biological processes, including-but not limited to-amino acid metabolism, ribosomal protein synthesis, and fatty acid metabolism. In addition, we identified numerous highly valuable lactate-modified proteins from the literature. Among them, we verified the lactate modification levels of the following two tumor-related proteins and obtained similar results: USP14 and ABCF1. These two modified proteins will be further investigated in our future studies. This paper is the first report on the lactylome of HCC and it provides a reliable foundation for further research on Kla in HCC.
PXD026222	36625483	Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of young and old mice in the bleomycin model reveals high similarity. 	Proteomic profiling of young and old mice in the bleomycin model	Bleomycin, C57BL/6J mouse, Fusion Lumos, LC-MS, SPS MS3, TMT, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, lung	The most common preclinical, in vivo model to study lung fibrosis is the bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis model in 2- to 3-mo-old mice. Although this model resembles key aspects of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), there are limitations in its predictability for the human disease. One of the main differences is the juvenile age of animals that are commonly used in experiments, resembling humans of around 20 yr. Because IPF patients are usually older than 60 yr, aging appears to play an important role in the pathogenesis of lung fibrosis. Therefore, we compared young (3 months) and old mice (21 months) 21 days after intratracheal bleomycin instillation. Analyzing lung transcriptomics (mRNAs and miRNAs) and proteomics, we found most pathways to be similarly regulated in young and old mice. However, old mice show imbalanced protein homeostasis as well as an increased inflammatory state in the fibrotic phase compared to young mice. Comparisons with published human transcriptomic data sets (GSE47460, GSE32537, and GSE24206) revealed that the gene signature of old animals correlates significantly better with IPF patients, and it also turned human healthy individuals better into "IPF patients" using an approach based on predictive disease modeling. Both young and old animals show similar molecular hallmarks of IPF in the bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis model, although old mice more closely resemble several features associated with IPF in comparison to young animals.
PXD033700	36626632	Conventional type 1 dendritic cells protect against gut barrier disruption via maintaining Akkermansia muciniphila in alcoholic steatohepatitis. 	Intestinal alcohol abuse sorted dendritic cells proteomics	Ethanol mice, Intestinal alcohol effect, dendritic cell proteomics	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Alcohol-perturbed gut immune homeostasis is associated with the development of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). However, the role of intestinal dendritic cells (DCs) in ALD progression is still unknown. This study aimed to investigate the cellular and molecular mechanisms through which intestinal DCs respond to alcohol exposure and contribute to the pathogenesis of ALD. APPROACH AND RESULTS: After 8 weeks of alcohol consumption, the number of basic leucine zipper transcription factor ATF-like 3 ( Batf3 )-dependent conventional type 1 DCs (cDC1s) was dramatically decreased in the intestine but not the liver. cDC1 deficient Batf3 knockout mice along with wild-type mice were subjected to chronic-binge ethanol feeding to determine the role of intestinal cDC1s reduction in ALD. cDC1s deficiency exacerbated alcohol-induced gut barrier disruption, bacterial endotoxin translocation into the circulation, and liver injury. Adoptive transfer of cDC1s to alcohol-fed mice ameliorated alcohol-mediated gut barrier dysfunction and liver injury. Further studies revealed that intestinal cDC1s serve as a positive regulator of Akkermansia muciniphila ( A. muciniphila ). Oral administration of A. muciniphila markedly reversed alcoholic steatohepatitis in mice. Mechanistic studies revealed that cDC1s depletion exacerbated alcohol-downregulated intestinal antimicrobial peptides which play a crucial role in maintaining A. muciniphila abundance, by disrupting the IL-12-interferon gamma signaling pathway. Lastly, we identified that intestinal cDC1s were required for the protective role of Lactobacillus reuteri in alcoholic steatohepatitis. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that cDC1s protect alcohol-induced liver injury by maintaining A. muciniphila abundance in mice. Targeting cDC1s may serve as a promising therapeutic approach for treating ALD.
PXD036141	36626982	Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) O-GlcNAcylation is essential for dividing mammalian cells and inhibits uterine carcinoma. 	PLK1 O-GlcNAcylation is essential for dividing mammalian cells and inhibits uterine carcinoma	O-GlcNAc, PLK1, mitosis, ubiquitination, uterine carcinoma	The O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT) mediates intracellular O-GlcNAcylation modification. O-GlcNAcylation occurs on Ser/Thr residues and is important for numerous physiological processes. OGT is essential for dividing mammalian cells and is involved in many human diseases; however, many of its fundamental substrates during cell division remain unknown. Here, we focus on the effect of OGT on polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), a mitotic master kinase that governs DNA replication, mitotic entry, chromosome segregation, and mitotic exit. We show that PLK1 interacts with OGT and is O-GlcNAcylated. By utilizing stepped collisional energy/higher-energy collisional dissociation mass spectrometry, we found a peptide fragment of PLK1 that is modified by O-GlcNAc. Further mutation analysis of PLK1 shows that the T291A mutant decreases O-GlcNAcylation. Interestingly, T291N is a uterine carcinoma mutant in The Cancer Genome Atlas. Our biochemical assays demonstrate that T291A and T291N both increase PLK1 stability. Using stable H2B-GFP cells, we found that PLK1-T291A and PLK1-T291N mutants display chromosome segregation defects and result in misaligned and lagging chromosomes. In mouse xenograft models, we demonstrate that the O-GlcNAc-deficient PLK1-T291A and PLK1-T291N mutants enhance uterine carcinoma in animals. Hence, we propose that OGT partially exerts its mitotic function through O-GlcNAcylation of PLK1, which might be one mechanism by which elevated levels of O-GlcNAc promote tumorigenesis.
PXD035701	36629021	A mitochondrion-free eukaryote contains proteins capable of import into an exogenous mitochondrion-related organelle. 	A mitochondrion-free eukaryote contains proteins preadapted for import into an exogenous mitochondrion-related organelle	: Mitochondrion-free eukaryote, evolution of protein targeting, hydrogenosome, protein import	The endobiotic flagellate Monocercomonoides exilis is the only known eukaryote to have lost mitochondria and all its associated proteins in its evolutionary past. This final stage of the mitochondrial evolutionary pathway may serve as a model to explain events at their very beginning such as the initiation of protein import. We have assessed the capability of proteins from this eukaryote to enter emerging mitochondria using a specifically designed in vitro assay. Hydrogenosomes (reduced mitochondria) of Trichomonas vaginalis were incubated with a soluble protein pool derived from a cytosolic fraction of M. exilis, and proteins entering hydrogenosomes were subsequently detected by mass spectrometry. The assay detected 19 specifically and reproducibly imported proteins, and in 14 cases the import was confirmed by the overexpression of their tagged version in T. vaginalis. In most cases, only a small portion of the signal reached the hydrogenosomes, suggesting specific but inefficient transport. Most of these proteins represent enzymes of carbon metabolism, and none exhibited clear signatures of proteins targeted to hydrogenosomes or mitochondria, which is consistent with their inefficient import. The observed phenomenon may resemble a primaeval type of protein import which might play a role in the establishment of the organelle and shaping of its proteome in the initial stages of endosymbiosis.
PXD027421	36629267	Multi-layered chromatin proteomics identifies cell vulnerabilities in DNA repair. 	Multi-layered chromatin proteomics identifies cell vulnerabilities in DNA repair	ChIP-SICAP, DDR, DNA damage foci, DSB, chromatin, hPTMs, iPOC	The DNA damage response (DDR) is essential to maintain genome stability, and its deregulation predisposes to carcinogenesis while encompassing attractive targets for cancer therapy. Chromatin governs the DDR via the concerted interplay among different layers, including DNA, histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) and chromatin-associated proteins. Here, we employ multi-layered proteomics to characterize chromatin-mediated functional interactions of repair proteins, signatures of hPTMs and the DNA-bound proteome during DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair at high temporal resolution. Our data illuminate the dynamics of known and novel DDR-associated factors both at chromatin and at DSBs. We functionally attribute novel chromatin-associated proteins to repair by non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ), homologous recombination (HR) and DSB repair pathway choice. We reveal histone reader ATAD2, microtubule organizer TPX2 and histone methyltransferase G9A as regulators of HR and involved in poly-ADP-ribose polymerase-inhibitor sensitivity. Furthermore, we distinguish hPTMs that are globally induced by DNA damage from those specifically acquired at sites flanking DSBs (gammaH2AX foci-specific) and profiled their dynamics during the DDR. Integration of complementary chromatin layers implicates G9A-mediated monomethylation of H3K56 in DSBs repair via HR. Our data provide a dynamic chromatin-centered view of the DDR that can be further mined to identify novel mechanistic links and cell vulnerabilities in DSB repair.
PXD037492	36629399	Improved Analysis of Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Data with Kojak 2.0, Advanced by Integration into the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline. 	Improved analysis of crosslinking mass spectrometry data with Kojak 2.0, advanced by integration into the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline	Kojak, PeptideProphet, Trans-Proteomic Pipeline, XL-MS, computational proteomics, crosslinking mass spectrometry, iProphet, protein interaction, software tools	Fragmentation ion spectral analysis of chemically cross-linked proteins is an established technology in the proteomics research repertoire for determining protein interactions, spatial orientation, and structure. Here we present Kojak version 2.0, a major update to the original Kojak algorithm, which was developed to identify cross-linked peptides from fragment ion spectra using a database search approach. A substantially improved algorithm with updated scoring metrics, support for cleavable cross-linkers, and identification of cross-links between (15)N-labeled homomultimers are among the newest features of Kojak 2.0 presented here. Kojak 2.0 is now integrated into the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline, enabling access to dozens of additional tools within that suite. In particular, the PeptideProphet and iProphet tools for validation of cross-links improve the sensitivity and accuracy of correct cross-link identifications at user-defined thresholds. These new features improve the versatility of the algorithm, enabling its use in a wider range of experimental designs and analysis pipelines. Kojak 2.0 remains open-source and multiplatform.
PXD037894	36630201	Chemical Proteomics with Novel Fully Functionalized Fragments and Stringent Target Prioritization Identifies the Glutathione-Dependent Isomerase GSTZ1 as a Lung Cancer Target. 	Chemical proteomics with novel fully functionalized fragments and stringent target prioritization identifies the glutathione-dependent isomerase GSTZ1 as a lung cancer target: SuTEx of GSTZ1 KD	GSTZ1, Lung cancer, chemical proteomics, fragment-based drug discovery	Photoreactive fragment-like probes have been applied to discover target proteins that constitute novel cellular vulnerabilities and to identify viable chemical hits for drug discovery. Through forming covalent bonds, functionalized probes can achieve stronger target engagement and require less effort for on-target mechanism validation. However, the design of probe libraries, which directly affects the biological target space that is interrogated, and effective target prioritization remain critical challenges of such a chemical proteomic platform. In this study, we designed and synthesized a diverse panel of 20 fragment-based probes containing natural product-based privileged structural motifs for small-molecule lead discovery. These probes were fully functionalized with orthogonal diazirine and alkyne moieties and used for protein crosslinking in live lung cancer cells, target enrichment via "click chemistry," and subsequent target identification through label-free quantitative liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Pair-wise comparison with a blunted negative control probe and stringent prioritization via individual cross-comparisons against the entire panel identified glutathione S-transferase zeta 1 (GSTZ1) as a specific and unique target candidate. DepMap database query, RNA interference-based gene silencing, and proteome-wide tyrosine reactivity profiling suggested that GSTZ1 cooperated with different oncogenic alterations by supporting survival signaling in refractory non-small cell lung cancer cells. This finding may form the basis for developing novel GSTZ1 inhibitors to improve the therapeutic efficacy of oncogene-directed targeted drugs. In summary, we designed a novel fragment-based probe panel and developed a target prioritization scheme with improved stringency, which allows for the identification of unique target candidates, such as GSTZ1 in refractory lung cancer.
PXD029453	36631435	Prolyl-tRNA synthetase as a novel therapeutic target in multiple myeloma. 	Huma Multiple Myeloma Cell line, AMO1, treated with NCP26, LC-MSMS analysis	AMO1, Cell line, Huma, Multiple Myeloma, NCP26, TMT-labeling	Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell malignancy characterised by aberrant production of immunoglobulins requiring survival mechanisms to adapt to proteotoxic stress. We here show that glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase (GluProRS) inhibition constitutes a novel therapeutic target. Genomic data suggest that GluProRS promotes disease progression and is associated with poor prognosis, while downregulation in MM cells triggers apoptosis. We developed NCP26, a novel ATP-competitive ProRS inhibitor that demonstrates significant anti-tumour activity in multiple in vitro and in vivo systems and overcomes metabolic adaptation observed with other inhibitor chemotypes. We demonstrate a complex phenotypic response involving protein quality control mechanisms that centers around the ribosome as an integrating hub. Using systems approaches, we identified multiple downregulated proline-rich motif-containing proteins as downstream effectors. These include CD138, transcription factors such as MYC, and transcription factor 3 (TCF3), which we establish as a novel determinant in MM pathobiology through functional and genomic validation. Our preclinical data therefore provide evidence that blockade of prolyl-aminoacylation evokes a complex pro-apoptotic response beyond the canonical integrated stress response and establish a framework for its evaluation in a clinical setting.
PXD038642	36631436	The HAPSTR2 retrogene buffers stress signaling and resilience in mammals. 	The HAPSTR2 retrogene buffers stress signaling and resilience in mammals	HAPSTR1, HAPSTR2, HUWE1	We recently identified HAPSTR1 (C16orf72) as a key component in a novel pathway which regulates the cellular response to molecular stressors, such as DNA damage, nutrient scarcity, and protein misfolding. Here, we identify a functional paralog to HAPSTR1: HAPSTR2. HAPSTR2 formed early in mammalian evolution, via genomic integration of a reverse transcribed HAPSTR1 transcript, and has since been preserved under purifying selection. HAPSTR2, expressed primarily in neural and germline tissues and a subset of cancers, retains established biochemical features of HAPSTR1 to achieve two functions. In normal physiology, HAPSTR2 directly interacts with HAPSTR1, markedly augmenting HAPSTR1 protein stability in a manner independent from HAPSTR1's canonical E3 ligase, HUWE1. Alternatively, in the context of HAPSTR1 loss, HAPSTR2 expression is sufficient to buffer stress signaling and resilience. Thus, we discover a mammalian retrogene which safeguards fitness.
PXD033324	36631608	Short tRNA anticodon stem and mutant eRF1 allow stop codon reassignment. 	Proteomic analysis of Blastocrithidia nonstop	Blastocrithidia nonstop, LC-MS	Cognate tRNAs deliver specific amino acids to translating ribosomes according to the standard genetic code, and three codons with no cognate tRNAs serve as stop codons. Some protists have reassigned all stop codons as sense codons, neglecting this fundamental principle(1-4). Here we analyse the in-frame stop codons in 7,259 predicted protein-coding genes of a previously undescribed trypanosomatid, Blastocrithidia nonstop. We reveal that in this species in-frame stop codons are underrepresented in genes expressed at high levels and that UAA serves as the only termination codon. Whereas new tRNAs(Glu) fully cognate to UAG and UAA evolved to reassign these stop codons, the UGA reassignment followed a different path through shortening the anticodon stem of tRNA(Trp)CCA from five to four base pairs (bp). The canonical 5-bp tRNA(Trp) recognizes UGG as dictated by the genetic code, whereas its shortened 4-bp variant incorporates tryptophan also into in-frame UGA. Mimicking this evolutionary twist by engineering both variants from B. nonstop, Trypanosoma brucei and Saccharomyces cerevisiae and expressing them in the last two species, we recorded a significantly higher readthrough for all 4-bp variants. Furthermore, a gene encoding B. nonstop release factor 1 acquired a mutation that specifically restricts UGA recognition, robustly potentiating the UGA reassignment. Virtually the same strategy has been adopted by the ciliate Condylostoma magnum. Hence, we describe a previously unknown, universal mechanism that has been exploited in unrelated eukaryotes with reassigned stop codons.
PXD016568	36631623	The histone demethylase KDM5C functions as a tumor suppressor in AML by repression of bivalently marked immature genes. 	The Histone Demethylase KDM5C Functions as a Tumor Suppressor in AML by Repression of B ivalently M arked Immature Genes	KDM5C, Leukemia	Epigenetic regulators are frequently mutated in hematological malignancies including acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Thus, the identification and characterization of novel epigenetic drivers affecting AML biology holds potential to improve our basic understanding of AML and to uncover novel options for therapeutic intervention. To identify novel tumor suppressive epigenetic regulators in AML, we performed an in vivo short hairpin RNA (shRNA) screen in the context of CEBPA mutant AML. This identified the Histone 3 Lysine 4 (H3K4) demethylase KDM5C as a tumor suppressor, and we show that reduced Kdm5c/KDM5C expression results in accelerated growth both in human and murine AML cell lines, as well as in vivo in Cebpa mutant and inv(16) AML mouse models. Mechanistically, we show that KDM5C act as a transcriptional repressor through its demethylase activity at promoters. Specifically, KDM5C knockdown results in globally increased H3K4me3 levels associated with up-regulation of bivalently marked immature genes. This is accompanied by a de-differentiation phenotype that could be reversed by modulating levels of several direct and indirect downstream mediators. Finally, the association of KDM5C levels with long-term disease-free survival of female AML patients emphasizes the clinical relevance of our findings and identifies KDM5C as a novel female-biased tumor suppressor in AML.
PXD031151	36632779	Multiple interactions of the dynein-2 complex with the IFT-B complex are required for effective intraflagellar transport. 	Protein interactions with HA-tagged cytoplasmic dynein-2 DATASET1	Dynein-2, Intraflagellar transport, cilia	The dynein-2 complex must be transported anterogradely within cilia to then drive retrograde trafficking of the intraflagellar transport (IFT) machinery containing IFT-A and IFT-B complexes. Here, we screened for potential interactions between the dynein-2 and IFT-B complexes and found multiple interactions among the dynein-2 and IFT-B subunits. In particular, WDR60 (also known as DYNC2I1) and the DYNC2H1-DYNC2LI1 dimer from dynein-2, and IFT54 (also known as TRAF3IP1) and IFT57 from IFT-B contribute to the dynein-2-IFT-B interactions. WDR60 interacts with IFT54 via a conserved region N-terminal to its light chain-binding regions. Expression of the WDR60 constructs in WDR60-knockout (KO) cells revealed that N-terminal truncation mutants lacking the IFT54-binding site fail to rescue abnormal phenotypes of WDR60-KO cells, such as aberrant accumulation of the IFT machinery around the ciliary tip and on the distal side of the transition zone. However, a WDR60 construct specifically lacking just the IFT54-binding site substantially restored the ciliary defects. In line with the current docking model of dynein-2 with the anterograde IFT trains, these results indicate that extensive interactions involving multiple subunits from the dynein-2 and IFT-B complexes participate in their connection.
PXD033916	36632964	Proteomic screening identifies RPLp2 as a specific regulator for the translation of coronavirus. 	Chlorocebus sabaeus vero E6 and and eIF4E(S209A) Vero cells (S209A-Vero) LC-MSMS upon infection by coronavirus PEDV	Chlorocebus sabaeus vero E6, PEDV, and eIF4E(S209A) Vero cells (S209A-Vero), phosphorylation of eIF4E	Viral mRNA of coronavirus translates in an eIF4E-dependent manner, and the phosphorylation of eIF4E can modulate this process, but the role of p-eIF4E in coronavirus infection is not yet entirely evident. p-eIF4E favors the translation of selected mRNAs, specifically the mRNAs that encode proteins associated with cell proliferation, inflammation, the extracellular matrix, and tumor formation and metastasis. In the present work, two rounds of TMT relative quantitative proteomics were used to screen 77 cellular factors that are upregulated upon infection by coronavirus PEDV and are potentially susceptible to a high level of p-eIF4E. PEDV infection increased the translation level of ribosomal protein lateral stalk subunit RPLp2 (but not subunit RPLp0/1) in a p-eIF4E-dependent manner. The bicistronic dual-reporter assay and polysome profile showed that RPLp2 is essential for translating the viral mRNA of PEDV. RNA binding protein and immunoprecipitation assay showed that RPLp2 interacted with PEDV 5'UTR via association with eIF4E. Moreover, the cap pull-down assay showed that the viral nucleocapsid protein is recruited in m(7)GTP-precipitated complexes with the assistance of RPLp2. The heterogeneous ribosomes, which are different in composition, regulate the selective translation of specific mRNAs. Our study proves that viral mRNA and protein utilize translation factors and heterogeneous ribosomes for preferential translation initiation. This previously uncharacterized process may be involved in the selective translation of coronavirus.
PXD034180	36633285	Perseverance of protein homeostasis despite mistranslation of glycine codons with alanine. 	Perserverence of protein homeostasis despite mistranslation of glycine codons with alanine	amino acid misincorporation, mistranslation, tRNA	By linking amino acids to their codon assignments, transfer RNAs (tRNAs) are essential for protein synthesis and translation fidelity. Some human tRNA variants cause amino acid mis-incorporation at a codon or set of codons. We recently found that a naturally occurring tRNA(Ser) variant decodes phenylalanine codons with serine and inhibits protein synthesis. Here, we hypothesized that human tRNA variants that misread glycine (Gly) codons with alanine (Ala) will also disrupt protein homeostasis. The A3G mutation occurs naturally in tRNA(Gly) variants (tRNA(Gly)CCC, tRNA(Gly)GCC) and creates an alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AlaRS) identity element (G3 : U70). Because AlaRS does not recognize the anticodon, the human tRNA(Ala)AGC G35C (tRNA(Ala)ACC) variant may function similarly to mis-incorporate Ala at Gly codons. The tRNA(Gly) and tRNA(Ala) variants had no effect on protein synthesis in mammalian cells under normal growth conditions; however, tRNA(Gly)GCC A3G depressed protein synthesis in the context of proteasome inhibition. Mass spectrometry confirmed Ala mistranslation at multiple Gly codons caused by the tRNA(Gly)GCC A3G and tRNA(Ala)AGC G35C mutants, and in some cases, we observed multiple mistranslation events in the same peptide. The data reveal mistranslation of Ala at Gly codons and defects in protein homeostasis generated by natural human tRNA variants that are tolerated under normal conditions. This article is part of the theme issue 'Reactivity and mechanism in chemical and synthetic biology'.
PXD038554	36634673	Palmitoylation couples insulin hypersecretion with beta cell failure in diabetes. 	Palmitoylation couples insulin hypersecretion with beta-cell failure in diabetes	Palmitoylation, diabetes, insulin, pancreatic islet	Hyperinsulinemia often precedes type 2 diabetes. Palmitoylation, implicated in exocytosis, is reversed by acyl-protein thioesterase 1 (APT1). APT1 biology was altered in pancreatic islets from humans with type 2 diabetes, and APT1 knockdown in nondiabetic islets caused insulin hypersecretion. APT1 knockout mice had islet autonomous increased glucose-stimulated insulin secretion that was associated with prolonged insulin granule fusion. Using palmitoylation proteomics, we identified Scamp1 as an APT1 substrate that localized to insulin secretory granules. Scamp1 knockdown caused insulin hypersecretion. Expression of a mutated Scamp1 incapable of being palmitoylated in APT1-deficient cells rescued insulin hypersecretion and nutrient-induced apoptosis. High-fat-fed islet-specific APT1-knockout mice and global APT1-deficient db/db mice showed increased beta cell failure. These findings suggest that APT1 is regulated in human islets and that APT1 deficiency causes insulin hypersecretion leading to beta cell failure, modeling the evolution of some forms of human type 2 diabetes.
PXD033827	36634679	Regulators of male and female sexual development are critical for the transmission of a malaria parasite. 	PBANKA_0828000 interactome proteomics	PBANKA_0828000, Plasmodium berghei	Malaria transmission to mosquitoes requires a developmental switch in asexually dividing blood-stage parasites to sexual reproduction. In Plasmodium berghei, the transcription factor AP2-G is required and sufficient for this switch, but how a particular sex is determined in a haploid parasite remains unknown. Using a global screen of barcoded mutants, we here identify genes essential for the formation of either male or female sexual forms and validate their importance for transmission. High-resolution single-cell transcriptomics of ten mutant parasites portrays the developmental bifurcation and reveals a regulatory cascade of putative gene functions in the determination and subsequent differentiation of each sex. A male-determining gene with a LOTUS/OST-HTH domain as well as the protein interactors of a female-determining zinc-finger protein indicate that germ-granule-like ribonucleoprotein complexes complement transcriptional processes in the regulation of both male and female development of a malaria parasite.
PXD034563	36634851	Protein tyrosine phosphatase 69D is a substrate of protein O-mannosyltransferases 1-2 that is required for the wiring of sensory axons in Drosophila. 	O-linked and N-linked analysis of PTP69D (Drosophila melanogaster)	CID pseudo-neutral loss triggered MS3, O-mannose, glycopeptide, sHCD	Mutations in protein O-mannosyltransferases (POMTs) result in severe brain defects and congenital muscular dystrophies characterized by abnormal glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-Dg). However, neurological phenotypes of POMT mutants are not well understood, and the functional substrates of POMTs other than alpha-Dg remain unknown. Using a Drosophila model, here we reveal that Dg alone cannot account for the phenotypes of POMT mutants, and identify Protein tyrosine phosphatase 69D (PTP69D) as a gene interacting with POMTs in producing the abdomen rotation phenotype. Using RNAi-mediated knockdown, mutant alleles, and a dominant-negative form of PTP69D, we reveal that PTP69D is required for the wiring of larval sensory axons. We also found that PTP69D and POMT genes interact in this process, and that their interactions lead to complex synergistic or antagonistic effects on axon wiring phenotypes, depending on the mode of genetic manipulation. Using glycoproteomic approaches, we further characterized the glycosylation of the PTP69D transgenic construct expressed in genetic strains with different levels of POMT activity. We found that the PTP69D construct carries many O-linked mannose modifications when expressed in Drosophila with wild-type or ectopically upregulated expression of POMTs. These modifications were absent in POMT mutants, suggesting that PTP69D is a substrate of POMT-mediated O-mannosylation. Taken together, our results indicate that PTP69D is a novel functional substrate of POMTs that is required for axon connectivity. This mechanism of POMT-mediated regulation of receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase functions could potentially be conserved in mammals and may shed new light on the etiology of neurological defects in muscular dystrophies.
PXD033536	36635268	A specific G9a inhibitor unveils BGLT3 lncRNA as a universal mediator of chemically induced fetal globin gene expression. 	The pivotal and universal role of BGLT3 lncRNA in fetal globin gene expression	Cultured cell, Epigenetic Chromatin (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), hemoglobin subunit	Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a heritable disorder caused by beta-globin gene mutations. Induction of fetal gamma-globin is an established therapeutic strategy. Recently, epigenetic modulators, including G9a inhibitors, have been proposed as therapeutic agents. However, the molecular mechanisms whereby these small molecules reactivate gamma-globin remain unclear. Here we report the development of a highly selective and non-genotoxic G9a inhibitor, RK-701. RK-701 treatment induces fetal globin expression both in human erythroid cells and in mice. Using RK-701, we find that BGLT3 long non-coding RNA plays an essential role in gamma-globin induction. RK-701 selectively upregulates BGLT3 by inhibiting the recruitment of two major gamma-globin repressors in complex with G9a onto the BGLT3 gene locus through CHD4, a component of the NuRD complex. Remarkably, BGLT3 is indispensable for gamma-globin induction by not only RK-701 but also hydroxyurea and other inducers. The universal role of BGLT3 in gamma-globin induction suggests its importance in SCD treatment.
PXD031080	36635288	Oncogenic mutations of PIK3CA lead to increased membrane recruitment driven by reorientation of the ABD, p85 and C-terminus. 	HDX analysis of PI3K oncogenic mutants	HDX-MS, PI3K, p110a	PIK3CA encoding the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) p110alpha catalytic subunit is frequently mutated in cancer, with mutations occurring widely throughout the primary sequence. The full set of mechanisms underlying how PI3Ks are activated by all oncogenic mutations on membranes are unclear. Using a synergy of biochemical assays and hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), we reveal unique regulatory mechanisms underlying PI3K activation. Engagement of p110alpha on membranes leads to disengagement of the ABD of p110alpha from the catalytic core, and the C2 domain from the iSH2 domain of the p85 regulatory subunit. PI3K activation also requires reorientation of the p110alpha C-terminus, with mutations that alter the inhibited conformation of the C-terminus increasing membrane binding. Mutations at the C-terminus (M1043I/L, H1047R, G1049R, and N1068KLKR) activate p110alpha through distinct mechanisms, with this having important implications for mutant selective inhibitor development. This work reveals unique mechanisms underlying how PI3K is activated by oncogenic mutations, and explains how double mutants can synergistically increase PI3K activity.
PXD035454	36635451	Adaptor protein complex interaction map in Arabidopsis identifies P34 as a common stability regulator. 	Mapping the protein interaction network of adaptor protein complex in Arabidopsis identifies P34 as a common stability regulator	AP-MS, TAP, TurboID, adaptor complex, interaction network, proximity labeling	Adaptor protein (AP) complexes are evolutionarily conserved vesicle transport regulators that recruit coat proteins, membrane cargoes and coated vesicle accessory proteins. As in plants endocytic and post-Golgi trafficking intersect at the trans-Golgi network, unique mechanisms for sorting cargoes of overlapping vesicular routes are anticipated. The plant AP complexes are part of the sorting machinery, but despite some functional information, their cargoes, accessory proteins and regulation remain largely unknown. Here, by means of various proteomics approaches, we generated the overall interactome of the five AP and the TPLATE complexes in Arabidopsis thaliana. The interactome converged on a number of hub proteins, including the thus far unknown adaptin binding-like protein, designated P34. P34 interacted with the clathrin-associated AP complexes, controlled their stability and, subsequently, influenced clathrin-mediated endocytosis and various post-Golgi trafficking routes. Altogether, the AP interactome network offers substantial resources for further discoveries of unknown endomembrane trafficking regulators in plant cells.
PXD026488	36635565	Monitoring Fe-S cluster occupancy across the E. coli proteome using chemoproteomics. 	Monitoring Fe-S cluster occupancy across the E. coli proteome using chemoproteomics	E. coli, Iron-sulfur clusters, ReDiMe, isoTOP-ABPP	Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters are ubiquitous metallocofactors involved in redox chemistry, radical generation and gene regulation. Common methods to monitor Fe-S clusters include spectroscopic analysis of purified proteins and autoradiographic visualization of radiolabeled iron distribution in proteomes. Here, we report a chemoproteomic strategy that monitors changes in the reactivity of Fe-S cysteine ligands to inform on Fe-S cluster occupancy. We highlight the utility of this platform in Escherichia coli by (1) demonstrating global disruptions in Fe-S incorporation in cells cultured under iron-depleted conditions, (2) determining Fe-S client proteins reliant on five scaffold, carrier and chaperone proteins within the Isc Fe-S biogenesis pathway and (3) identifying two previously unannotated Fe-S proteins, TrhP and DppD. In summary, the chemoproteomic strategy described herein is a powerful tool that reports on Fe-S cluster incorporation directly within a native proteome, enabling the interrogation of Fe-S biogenesis pathways and the identification of previously uncharacterized Fe-S proteins.
PXD032820	36636779	A high-confidence Physcomitrium patens plasmodesmata proteome by iterative scoring and validation reveals diversification of cell wall proteins during evolution. 	A high confidence Physcomitrium patens plasmodesmata proteome	Physcomitrium patens, plasmodesmata	Plasmodesmata (PD) facilitate movement of molecules between plant cells. Regulation of this movement is still not understood. Plasmodesmata are hard to study, being deeply embedded within cell walls and incorporating several membrane types. Thus, structure and protein composition of PD remain enigmatic. Previous studies of PD protein composition identified protein lists with few validations, making functional conclusions difficult. We developed a PD scoring approach in iteration with large-scale systematic localization, defining a high-confidence PD proteome of Physcomitrium patens (HC300). HC300, together with bona fide PD proteins from literature, were placed in Pddb. About 65% of proteins in HC300 were not previously PD-localized. Callose-degrading glycolyl hydrolase family 17 (GHL17) is an abundant protein family with representatives across evolutionary scale. Among GHL17s, we exclusively found members of one phylogenetic clade with PD localization and orthologs occur only in species with developed PD. Phylogenetic comparison was expanded to xyloglucan endotransglucosylases/hydrolases and Exordium-like proteins, which also diversified into PD-localized and non-PD-localized members on distinct phylogenetic clades. Our high-confidence PD proteome HC300 provides insights into diversification of large protein families. Iterative and systematic large-scale localization across plant species strengthens the reliability of HC300 as basis for exploring structure, function, and evolution of this important organelle.
PXD036922	36638821	Discovery of 2,6-Dihalopurines as Stomata Opening Inhibitors: Implication of an LRX-Mediated H(+)-ATPase Phosphorylation Pathway. 	Discovery of 2,6-Dihalopurines as Stomata Opening Inhibitors	affinity, molecular probe, pull-down assay, stomata	Stomata are pores in the leaf epidermis of plants and their opening and closing regulate gas exchange and water transpiration. Stomatal movements play key roles in both plant growth and stress responses. In recent years, small molecules regulating stomatal movements have been used as a powerful tool in mechanistic studies, as well as key players for agricultural applications. Therefore, the development of new molecules regulating stomatal movement and the elucidation of their mechanisms have attracted much attention. We herein describe the discovery of 2,6-dihalopurines, AUs, as a new stomatal opening inhibitor, and their mechanistic study. Based on biological assays, AUs may involve in the pathway related with plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase phosphorylation. In addition, we identified leucine-rich repeat extensin proteins (LRXs), LRX3, LRX4 and LRX5 as well as RALF, as target protein candidates of AUs by affinity based pull down assay and molecular dynamics simulation. The mechanism of stomatal movement related with the LRXs-RALF is an unexplored pathway, and therefore further studies may lead to the discovery of new signaling pathways and regulatory factors in the stomatal movement.
PXD035853	36638888	Discovery of seven novel putative antigens in membranous nephropathy and membranous lupus nephritis identified by mass spectrometry. 	Minor Antigens in Membranous Nephropathy Identified by Mass Spectrometry	DDA, DIA, Kidney, Membranous Nephropathy, Pulldown	Multiple autoantigens have been identified in membranous nephropathy (MN) by tissue-based proteomics. However, antigenic targets of disease are unknown for over 10% of patients with MN and over half of those with membranous lupus nephritis (MLN). Here, we identified multiple new targets in PLA2R-/THSD7A-/EXT-/NELL1-quadruple negative MN biopsies through mass spectrometry of immune complexes recovered from biopsy tissue of patients with MN. Patients with MN negative for these four antigens were identified from Arkana Laboratories case archives. Protein G immunoprecipitation recovered immune complexes from frozen biopsy tissue from 142 quadruple-negative cases and 278 cases of known antigen type, followed by interrogation by mass spectrometry. Potential putative antigens were confirmed through paraffin immunofluorescence and co-localization with IgG within immune deposits. Consecutive series of 165 cases of PLA2R-negative MN and 142 MLN biopsies were screened to determine the frequency for each potential antigen. Seven putative antigens were discovered within immune complexes from biopsies of patients with MN including FCN3, CD206, EEA1, SEZ6L2, NPR3, MST1, and VASN. Peptides from these proteins were not enriched in the 278 cases of known antigen type. Between three to 30 unique peptides were detected for each new target. Frequencies of each biomarker, determined by staining consecutive case series, ranged from under 1 to 4.9%. NPR3 and CD206 were only positive in index cases. All cases showed co-localization of IgG within the immune deposits. Thus, seven putative antigens were newly identified in MN and MLN. Due to the number of antigens identified, it is becoming impractical to type PLA2R-negative MN or MLN cases through immunostaining alone. A multiplex approach is needed for subtyping of these diseases.
PXD038851	36639706	The interferon stimulated gene-encoded protein HELZ2 inhibits human LINE-1 retrotransposition and LINE-1 RNA-mediated type I interferon induction. 	Human LINE-1 ORF1p complex LC-MS/MS	LINE-1, retrotransposon	Some interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) encode proteins that inhibit LINE-1 (L1) retrotransposition. Here, we use immunoprecipitation followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to identify proteins that associate with the L1 ORF1-encoded protein (ORF1p) in ribonucleoprotein particles. Three ISG proteins that interact with ORF1p inhibit retrotransposition: HECT and RLD domain containing E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase 5 (HERC5); 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase-like (OASL); and helicase with zinc finger 2 (HELZ2). HERC5 destabilizes ORF1p, but does not affect its cellular localization. OASL impairs ORF1p cytoplasmic foci formation. HELZ2 recognizes sequences and/or structures within the L1 5'UTR to reduce L1 RNA, ORF1p, and ORF1p cytoplasmic foci levels. Overexpression of WT or reverse transcriptase-deficient L1s lead to a modest induction of IFN-alpha expression, which is abrogated upon HELZ2 overexpression. Notably, IFN-alpha expression is enhanced upon overexpression of an ORF1p RNA binding mutant, suggesting ORF1p binding might protect L1 RNA from "triggering" IFN-alpha induction. Thus, ISG proteins can inhibit retrotransposition by different mechanisms.
PXD038136	36643485	Integrative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses Revealed the Regulatory Mechanism of the Response to Ultraviolet B Stress in Clematis terniflora DC. 	Integrative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses revealed the regulation mechanism of Clematis terniflora DC. response to UV-B stress	clematis terniflora DC., phosphoproteomic, ultraviolet B	Clematis terniflora DC. (C. terniflora) has been used as an ancient Chinese traditional herbal medicine. The active substances in C. terniflora have been confirmed to be effective in treating diseases such as prostatitis. UV light radiation is a common environmental factor that damages plants and influences primary and secondary metabolism. Previous studies showed that ultraviolet B (UV-B) radiation followed by dark stress resulted in the accumulation of secondary metabolites in C. terniflora leaves. An in-depth understanding of how C. terniflora leaves respond to UV-B stress is crucial for improving C. terniflora value. Here, we conducted label-free proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses to explore the protein changes under UV-B and UV-B combined with dark treatment. A total of 2839 proteins and 1638 phosphorylated proteins were identified. Integrative omics revealed that the photosynthetic system and carbohydrate balance were modulated under both stresses. The phosphoproteomic data indicated that the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway was triggered, while the abundance of phosphorylated proteins related to osmotic stress was increased under UV-B stress. Differentially abundant phosphoproteins from UV-B followed by dark treatment were mainly enriched in response to stimulus including calcium-mediated proteins. This study provides new insight into the impact of UV-B stress on C. terniflora and plant molecular resistance mechanisms through proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses.
PXD038224	36644760	Combined multiomics analysis reveals the mechanism of CENPF overexpression-mediated immune dysfunction in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in vitro. 	Human DLBCL cell line proteome and ubiquitinome	centrimeric protein F, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, ubiquitination	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is one of the most common aggressive B-cell lymphomas with significant heterogeneity. More than half of patients are cured, but 40%-45% still face relapse or develop drug resistance, and the mechanism is not yet known. In this study, Centrimeric protein F (CENPF) overexpression was found in several DLBCL patients with relapsed or refractory disease compared to patients with complete remission. Thus, the human DLBCL cell line SU-DHL-4 was chosen for this study, and CENPF was upregulated in that cell line by using an adenovirus in vitro. Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteome analysis was first performed, and the results showed that the expression levels of various proteins were increased when CENPF was upregulated, and these proteins are mainly involved in cellular processes, biological regulation, immune system processes and transcriptional regulator activity. Bioinformatics data analysis revealed that the main enriched proteins, including UBE2A, UBE2C, UBE2S, TRIP12, HERC2, PIRH2, and PIAS, were involved in various ubiquitin-related kinase activities and ubiquitination processes. Thus, ubiquitinome analysis was further performed, and the results demonstrated that proteins in many immune-related cellular pathways, such as natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity, the T-cell receptor signaling pathway and the B-cell receptor signaling pathway, were significantly deubiquitinated after CENPF was upregulated in DLBCL cells. Furthermore, TIMER2.0 was also used to reveal the association between CENPF and immune infiltration in DLBCL. The results showed that CENPF expression was positively correlated with CD8(+) T cells, NK cells and B lymphocytes in DLBCL samples but negatively correlated with regulatory T cells. Aberrant activation of CENPF may induce immune dysregulation in DLBCL cells by mediating protein deubiquitination in various immune signaling pathways, which leads to tumor escape of DLBCL, but further experimental validation is still needed.
PXD038148	36644903	ULK1-mediated phosphorylation regulates the conserved role of YKT6 in autophagy. 	IP-MS of human YKT6 upon mutation of possible ULK1-phosphorylation sites	HeLa, IP-MS, LFQ, Q Exactive HF, YKT6	Autophagy is a catabolic process during which cytosolic material is enwrapped in a newly formed double-membrane structure called the autophagosome, and subsequently targeted for degradation in the lytic compartment of the cell. The fusion of autophagosomes with the lytic compartment is a tightly regulated step and involves membrane-bound SNARE proteins. These play a crucial role as they promote lipid mixing and fusion of the opposing membranes. Among the SNARE proteins implicated in autophagy, the essential SNARE protein YKT6 is the only SNARE protein that is evolutionarily conserved from yeast to humans. Here, we show that alterations in YKT6 function, in both mammalian cells and nematodes, produce early and late autophagy defects that result in reduced survival. Moreover, mammalian autophagosomal YKT6 is phospho-regulated by the ULK1 kinase, preventing premature bundling with the lysosomal SNARE proteins and thereby inhibiting autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Together, our findings reveal that timely regulation of the YKT6 phosphorylation status is crucial throughout autophagy progression and cell survival.
PXD034221	36645712	Serum proteomics profiling identifies a preliminary signature for the diagnosis of early-stage lung cancer. 	Serum proteomics profiling identifies a signature  for lung cancer early diagnosis	biomarker, early diagnosis, lung cancer, microvesicles, serum	PURPOSE: Lung cancer is the most common cause of death from cancer worldwide, largely due to late diagnosis. Thus, there is an urgent need to develop new approaches to improve the detection of early-stage lung cancer, which would greatly improve patient survival. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The quantitative protein expression profiles of microvesicles isolated from the sera from 46 lung cancer patients and 41 high-risk non-cancer subjects were obtained using a mass spectrometry method based on a peptide library matching approach. RESULTS: We identified 33 differentially expressed proteins that allow discriminating the two groups. We also built a machine learning model based on serum protein expression profiles that can correctly classify the majority of lung cancer cases and that highlighted a decrease in the levels of Arysulfatase A (ARSA) as the most discriminating factor found in tumors. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our study identified a preliminary, non-invasive protein signature able to discriminate with high specificity and selectivity early-stage lung cancer patients from high-risk healthy subjects. These results provide the basis for future validation studies for the development of a non-invasive diagnostic tool for lung cancer.
PXD038259	36646273	TMT proteomics analysis of cerebrospinal fluid from patients with cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. 	TMT proteomics analysis of cerebrospinal fluid from patients with cerebral venous sinus thrombosis	Bioinformatics analysis, Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, Tandem mass tag	CVST is a type of venous stroke that mainly affects young adults with no reliable diagnostic markers and effective treatment strategies for secondary pathologies. However, the underlying pathological molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we systematically analyzed the molecule profiling of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in CVST patients via tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomics for the first time, aiming to reveal the pathogenesis and provide evidence for the diagnosis and treatment of CVST. Five CVST patients and five control patients were selected, and CSF samples were analyzed by TMT proteomics. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were acquired and bioinformatics analysis was performed. Besides, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was utilized to validate the DEPs. 468 differentially expressed proteins were screened, 185 of which were up-regulated and 283 were down-regulated (fold change >1.2, P < 0.05). Bioinformatics analysis displayed that these proteins were significantly enriched in multiple pathways related to a variety of pathophysiological processes. PRM verification showed that apolipoprotein E, MMP-2, neuroserpin, clusterin, and several other molecules were down-regulated. These identified proteins reveal unique pathophysiological characteristics secondary to CVST. Further characterization of these proteins in future research could enable their application as potential therapeutic targets and biomarkers in CVST therapy. SIGNIFICANCE: Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is an underrated and potentially fatal cause of stroke with a reported mortality of 5-10% worldwide. Currently, in addition to anticoagulant and thrombolytic therapy, effective treatments targeting the injured brain parenchyma after CVST remain limited. Besides, accurate diagnostic markers are still sorely lacking. In the present study, we will detect the alterations of the CSF protein spectrum of CVST patients by TMT technique, screen differentially expressed proteins, analyze the functions of these signals through bioinformatics methods, and finally validate the key molecules through parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) technique. Collectively, the study aimed to offer a reference for the discovery of specific protein/pathway alterations in the CSF of CVST patients and further reveal the underlying pathogenesis, thereby providing evidence for the diagnosis and treatment of CVST.
PXD038525	36646879	Hippocampal dentate gyri proteomics reveals Wnt signaling involvement in the behavioral impairment in the THRSP-overexpressing ADHD mouse model. 	Proteomics data reveals Wnt signaling involvement in the hippocampal-dependent behavioral impairment in THRSP-overexpressing ADHD mouse model	Mus musculus, Thrsp	Children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) often struggle with impaired executive function, temporal processing, and visuospatial memory, hallmarks of the predominantly inattentive presentation (ADHD-PI), subserved by the hippocampus. However, the specific genes/proteins involved and how they shape hippocampal structures to influence ADHD behavior remain poorly understood. As an exploratory tool, hippocampal dentate gyri tissues from thyroid hormone-responsive protein overexpressing (THRSP OE) mice with defining characteristics of ADHD-PI were utilized in proteomics. Integrated proteomics and network analysis revealed an altered protein network involved in Wnt signaling. Compared with THRSP knockout (KO) mice, THRSP OE mice showed impaired attention and memory, accompanied by dysregulated Wnt signaling affecting hippocampal dentate gyrus cell proliferation and expression of markers for neural stem cell (NSC) activity. Also, combined exposure to an enriched environment and treadmill exercise could improve behavioral deficits in THRSP OE mice and Wnt signaling and NSC activity. These findings show new markers specific to the ADHD-PI presentation, converging with the ancient and evolutionary Wnt signaling pathways crucial for cell fate determination, migration, polarity, and neural patterning during neurodevelopment. These findings from THRSP OE mice support the role of Wnt signaling in neurological disorders, particularly ADHD-PI presentation.
PXD028836	36647001	Integrated transcriptome and proteome revealed that the declined expression of cell cycle-related genes associated with follicular atresia in geese. 	Proteomics of normal and atretic follicles in geese	Atretic follicles, Goose, ITARQ	BACKGROUND: Geese exhibit relatively low reproductive performance, and follicular atresia is an important factor that restricts the egg production of geese. Systematic analysis of the regulation of follicle atresia in geese through transcriptome and proteome levels could provide meaningful information on clarifying the mechanism of follicle atresia in poultry. RESULT: The granulosa cell layer was loose, disintegrated and showed apoptosis in atretic follicles and remained intact in normal follicles. The hormone levels of FSH and LH were significantly decreased in the atresia follicles compared to the normal follicles (P < 0.05). A total of 954 differentially expressed genes (DEGs, 315 increased and 639 decreased) and 161 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs, 61 increased and 100 decreased) were obtained in atresia follicles compared to normal follicles, of which, 15 genes were differentially expressed in both transcriptome and proteome. The DEGs were mainly enriched in sodium transmembrane transport, plasma membrane, and transmembrane transporter activity based on the GO enrichment analysis and in the cell cycle pathway based on the KEGG enrichment analysis. The DEPs were mainly enriched in localization, lysosome, and phospholipid-binding based on the GO enrichment analysis. Candidate genes Smad2/3, Smad4, Annexin A1 (ANXA1), Stromelysin-1 (MMP3), Serine/threonine-protein kinase (CHK1), DNA replication licensing factor (MCM3), Cyclin-A2 (CCNA2), mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint protein (MAD2), Cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), fibroblast growth factor 12 (FGF12), and G1/S-specific cyclin-D1 (CCND1) were possibly responsible for the regulation of atresia. CONCLUSION: The cell cycle is an important pathway for the regulation of follicular atresia. Sodium outflow and high expression of MMP3 and MMP9 could be responsible for structural destruction and apoptosis of follicular cells.
PXD037945	36648763	Proteomic Characterization of Peritoneal Extracellular Vesicles in a Mouse Model of Peritoneal Fibrosis. 	4D label-free quantitative proteomics analyses of peritoneal extracellular vesicles isolated from normal mice and peritoneal dialysis fluid-treated mice	4D label-free, Peritoneum, extracellular vesicles	Peritoneal fibrosis progression is regarded as a significant cause of the loss of peritoneal function, markedly limiting the application of peritoneal dialysis (PD). However, the pathogenesis of peritoneal fibrosis remains to be elucidated. Tissue-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) change their molecular cargos to adapt the environment alteration, mediating intercellular communications and play a significant role in organ fibrosis. Hence, we performed, for the first time, four-dimensional label-free quantitative liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry proteomic analyses on EVs from normal peritoneal tissues and PD-induced fibrotic peritoneum in mice. We demonstrated the alterations of EV concentration and protein composition between normal control and PD groups. A total of 2339 proteins containing 967 differentially expressed proteins were identified. Notably, upregulated proteins in PD EVs were enriched in processes including response to wounding and leukocyte migration, which participated in the development of fibrosis. In addition, EV proteins of the PD group exhibited unique metabolic signature compared with those of the control group. The glycolysis-related proteins increased in PD EVs, while oxidative phosphorylation and fatty acid metabolism-related proteins decreased. We also evaluated the effect of cell-type specificity on EV proteins, suggesting that mesothelial cells mainly cause the alterations in the molecular composition of EVs. Our study provided a useful resource for further validation of the key regulator or therapeutic target of peritoneal fibrosis.
PXD037651	36648961	Characterisation of Colorectal Cancer Cell Lines through Proteomic Profiling of Their Extracellular Vesicles. 	Characterisation of colorectal cancer cell lines through proteomic profiling of their extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesicles, colorectal cancer, intracellular signalling, phosphoproteomics, sEVs	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most prevalent cancers, driven by several factors including deregulations in intracellular signalling pathways. Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) are nanosized protein-packaged particles released from cells, which are present in liquid biopsies. Here, we characterised the proteome landscape of sEVs and their cells of origin in three CRC cell lines HCT116, HT29 and SW620 to explore molecular traits that could be exploited as cancer biomarker candidates and how intracellular signalling can be assessed by sEV analysis instead of directly obtaining the cell of origin itself. Our findings revealed that sEV cargo clearly reflects its cell of origin with proteins of the PI3K-AKT pathway highly represented in sEVs. Proteins known to be involved in CRC were detected in both cells and sEVs including KRAS, ARAF, mTOR, PDPK1 and MAPK1, while TGFB1 and TGFBR2, known to be key players in epithelial cancer carcinogenesis, were found to be enriched in sEVs. Furthermore, the phosphopeptide-enriched profiling of cell lysates demonstrated a distinct pattern between cell lines and highlighted potential phosphoproteomic targets to be investigated in sEVs. The total proteomic and phosphoproteomics profiles described in the current work can serve as a source to identify candidates for cancer biomarkers that can potentially be assessed from liquid biopsies.
PXD037048	36649130	Profiling Sulfur(VI) Fluorides as Reactive Functionalities for Chemical Biology Tools and Expansion of the Ligandable Proteome. 	Profiling Sulfur(VI) Fluorides as Reactive Functionalities for Chemical Biology Tools and Expansion of the Ligandable Proteome	chemical biology, covalent fragment screening, covalent probes, sulfonyl fluoride	Here, we report a comprehensive profiling of sulfur(VI) fluorides (S(VI)-Fs) as reactive groups for chemical biology applications. S(VI)-Fs are reactive functionalities that modify lysine, tyrosine, histidine, and serine sidechains. A panel of S(VI)-Fs were studied with respect to hydrolytic stability and reactivity with nucleophilic amino acid sidechains. The use of S(VI)-Fs to covalently modify carbonic anhydrase II (CAII) and a range of kinases was then investigated. Finally, the S(VI)-F panel was used in live cell chemoproteomic workflows, identifying novel protein targets based on the type of S(VI)-F used. This work highlights how S(VI)-F reactivity can be used as a tool to expand the liganded proteome.
PXD033854	36650210	A deeply conserved protease, acylamino acid-releasing enzyme (AARE), acts in ageing in Physcomitrella and Arabidopsis. 	A deeply conserved protease, acylamino acid-releasing enzyme (AARE), acts in aging in Physcomitrella and Arabidopsis	Ageing, Physcomitrella, Physcomitrium, ROS, protein oxidation	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are constant by-products of aerobic life. In excess, ROS lead to cytotoxic protein aggregates, which are a hallmark of ageing in animals and linked to age-related pathologies in humans. Acylamino acid-releasing enzymes (AARE) are bifunctional serine proteases, acting on oxidized proteins. AARE are found in all domains of life, albeit under different names, such as acylpeptide hydrolase (APEH/ACPH), acylaminoacyl peptidase (AAP), or oxidized protein hydrolase (OPH). In humans, AARE malfunction is associated with age-related pathologies, while their function in plants is less clear. Here, we provide a detailed analysis of AARE genes in the plant lineage and an in-depth analysis of AARE localization and function in the moss Physcomitrella and the angiosperm Arabidopsis. AARE loss-of-function mutants have not been described for any organism so far. We generated and analysed such mutants and describe a connection between AARE function, aggregation of oxidized proteins and plant ageing, including accelerated developmental progression and reduced life span. Our findings complement similar findings in animals and humans, and suggest a unified concept of ageing may exist in different life forms.
PXD032807	36650427	The novel biomarkers for assessing clinical benefits of continuous renal replacement therapy in pediatric sepsis: a pilot study. 	The novels biomarkers for assessing clinical benefits of continuous renal replacement therapy in pediatric sepsis	biomarkers, continuous renal replacement therapy, pediatric sepsis	BACKGROUND: Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) has been considered as an adjuvant therapy for sepsis. However, the novel biomarker to evaluate the benefits of CRRT is limited. The aim of this study was to explore the novel biomarkers involved in the impact of CRRT in pediatric sepsis. METHODS: The serum proteomic profiles on the 7th day after CRRT (CRRT 7th day) compared with before CRRT (CRRT 1st day) was determined in 3 children with sepsis as a discovery set. The screened candidates were confirmed in the validation cohort including patients received CRRT (CRRT group) and without CRRT (non-CRRT group). We defined that pediatric sequential organ failure assessment score (pSOFA) in pediatric patients with sepsis decreased by 2 points or more on the CRRT 1st day compared with CRRT initiation as CRRT responders. The changes of serum biomarkers were compared between CRRT responders and CRRT non-responders. Moreover, correlation analysis was further conducted in pediatric sepsis. RESULTS: A total of 145 differentially expressed proteins were found according to the serum proteomics profiles. By visualizing the interaction between the differential proteins, 6 candidates (Lysozyme C [LYZ], Leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein [LRG1], Fibromodulin [FMOD], Alpha-1-antichymotrypsin [SERPINA3], L-selectin [SELL], Monocyte differentiation antigen CD14 [CD14]) were screened. In the validation cohort, serum levels of LYZ and LRG1 showed a higher trend on the CRRT 7th day than that on the 1st day in the non-CRRT group. However, the changes in levels of LYZ and LRG1 on the 7th day was significant in the CRRT group (p = 0.016, p = 0.009, respectively). Moreover, the levels of LYZ and LRG1 on the CRRT 7th day in the CRRT group were significantly higher than that in the non-CRRT group (p < 0.001, p = 0.025). Decreased levels of CD14 were associated with sepsis recovery, but not associated with CRRT. There were no significantly difference in serum FMOD, SERPINA3, and SELL levels. Importantly, serum LYZ and LRG1 levels changed in CRRT responders, but not CRRT non-responders. Further analysis indicated that serum LYZ levels were correlated to total platelet counts, aspartate aminotransferase (ALT), alanine aminotransferase (AST), and albumin levels, and serum LRG1 level were correlated to total platelet count and TBIL levels on the 1st day in the CRRT group. Protein-protein interaction network analysis displayed that serum LYZ and LRG1 were involved in the process of inflammatory response, leucocytes adhesion to vascular endothelial cell, as well as complement activation. CONCLUSION: Elevated serum LYZ and LRG1 levels are associated with clinical benefits of CRRT during sepsis.
PXD022961	36651121	Lineage-Mismatched Mitochondrial Replacement in an Inducible Mitochondrial Depletion Model Effectively Restores the Original Proteomic Landscape of Recipient Cells. 	LineageMismatched Mitochondrial Replacement in an Inducible Mitochondrial Depletion Model Effectively Restores the Original Proteomic Landscape of Recipient Cells	Mitochondria (HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, mitochondrial depletion, mitochondrial transfer, quantitative proteomics.	In addition to critical roles in bioenergetics, mitochondria are key contributors to the regulation of many other functions in cells, ranging from steroidogenesis to apoptosis. Numerous studies further demonstrate that cell type-specific differences exist in mitochondria, with cells of a given lineage tailoring their endogenous mitochondrial population to suit specific functional needs. These findings, coupled with studies of the therapeutic potential of mitochondrial transplantation, provide a strong impetus to better understand how mitochondria can influence cell function or fate. Here an inducible mitochondrial depletion modelis used to study how cells lacking endogenous mitochondria respond, on a global protein expression level, to transplantation with lineage-mismatched (LM) mitochondria. It is shown that LM mitochondrial transplantation does not alter the proteomic profile in nonmitochondria-depleted recipient cells; however, enforced depletion of endogenous mitochondria results in dramatic changes in the proteomic landscape, which returns to the predepletion state following internalization of LM mitochondria. These data, derived from a cell system that can be rendered free of influence by endogenous mitochondria, indicate that transplantation of mitochondria-even from a source that differs significantly from the recipient cell population, effectively restores a normal proteomic landscape to cells lacking their own mitochondria.
PXD035273	36651296	Phosphorylation of TRF2 promotes its interaction with TIN2 and regulates DNA damage response at telomeres. 	Phosphorylation of TRF2 promotes its interaction with TIN2 and regulates DNA repair at damaged telomeres.	PPM1D phosphatase, TRF2, phosphorylation, shelterin, telomere	Protein phosphatase magnesium-dependent 1 delta (PPM1D) terminates the cell cycle checkpoint by dephosphorylating the tumour suppressor protein p53. By targeting additional substrates at chromatin, PPM1D contributes to the control of DNA damage response and DNA repair. Using proximity biotinylation followed by proteomic analysis, we identified a novel interaction between PPM1D and the shelterin complex that protects telomeric DNA. In addition, confocal microscopy revealed that endogenous PPM1D localises at telomeres. Further, we found that ATR phosphorylated TRF2 at S410 after induction of DNA double strand breaks at telomeres and this modification increased after inhibition or loss of PPM1D. TRF2 phosphorylation stimulated its interaction with TIN2 both in vitro and at telomeres. Conversely, induced expression of PPM1D impaired localisation of TIN2 and TPP1 at telomeres. Finally, recruitment of the DNA repair factor 53BP1 to the telomeric breaks was strongly reduced after inhibition of PPM1D and was rescued by the expression of TRF2-S410A mutant. Our results suggest that TRF2 phosphorylation promotes the association of TIN2 within the shelterin complex and regulates DNA repair at telomeres.
PXD033620	36651565	Comparative genomics and interactomics of polyadenylation factors for the prediction of new parasite targets: Entamoeba histolytica as a working model. 	Comparative genomics and interactomics of polyadenylation factors for the prediction of new parasite targets: Entamoeba histolytica as a working model	Entamoeba histolytica, mRNA processing, protein-protein interactions	Protein-protein interactions (PPI) play a key role in predicting the function of a target protein and drug ability to affect an entire biological system. Prediction of PPI networks greatly contributes to determine a target protein and signal pathways related to its function. Polyadenylation of mRNA 3'-end is essential for gene expression regulation and several polyadenylation factors have been shown as valuable targets for controlling protozoan parasites that affect human health. Here, by using a computational strategy based on sequence-based prediction approaches, phylogenetic analyses, and computational prediction of PPI networks, we compared interactomes of polyadenylation factors in relevant protozoan parasites and the human host, to identify key proteins and define potential targets for pathogen control. Then, we used Entamoeba histolytica as a working model to validate our computational results. RT-qPCR assays confirmed the coordinated modulation of connected proteins in the PPI network and evidenced that silencing of the bottleneck protein EhCFIm25 affects the expression of interacting proteins. In addition, molecular dynamics simulations and docking approaches allowed to characterize the relationships between EhCFIm25 and Ehnopp34, two connected bottleneck proteins. Interestingly, the experimental identification of EhCFIm25 interactome confirmed the close relationships among proteins involved in gene expression regulation and evidenced new links with moonlight proteins in E. histolytica, suggesting a connection between RNA biology and metabolism as described in other organisms. Altogether, our results strengthened the relevance of comparative genomics and interactomics of polyadenylation factors for the prediction of new targets for the control of these human pathogens.
PXD039104	36651745	Peste Des Petits Ruminants Virus Nucleocapsid Protein Interacts with Protein Kinase R-Activating Protein and Induces Stress Granules To Promote Viral Replication. 	Peste des petits ruminants virus nucleocapsid protein interacts with PACT and induces stress granule to promote viral replication	PACT, PKR, PPRV, nucleocapsid protein, stress granule	The pathogenic mechanisms of peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) infection remain poorly understood, leaving peste des petits ruminants (PPR) control and eradication especially difficult. Here, we determined that PPRV nucleocapsid (N) protein triggers formation of stress granules (SGs) to benefit viral replication. A mass spectrometry-based profiling of the interactome of PPRV N protein revealed that PPRV N protein interacted with protein kinase R (PKR)-activating protein (PACT), and this interaction was confirmed in the context of PPRV infection. PACT was essential for PPRV replication. Besides, the ectopic expression of N activated the PKR/eIF2alpha (alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2) pathway through induction of PKR phosphorylation, but it did not induce PKR phosphorylation in PACT-deficient (PACT(-/-)) cells. PPRV N interacted with PACT, impairing the interaction between PACT and a PKR inhibitor, transactivation response RNA-binding protein (TRBP), which subsequently enhanced the interaction between PACT and PKR and thus promoted the activation of PKR and eIF2alpha phosphorylation, resulting in formation of stress granules (SGs). Consistently, PPRV infection induced SG formation through activation of the PKR/eIF2alpha pathway, and knockdown of N impaired PPRV-induced SG formation. PPRV-induced SG formation significantly decreased in PACT(-/-) cells as well. The role of SG formation in PPRV replication was subsequently investigated, which showed that SG formation plays a positive role in PPRV replication. By using an RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization assay, we found that PPRV-induced SGs hid cellular mRNA rather than viral mRNA. Altogether, our data provide the first evidence that PPRV N protein plays a role in modulating the PKR/eIF2alpha/SG axis and promotes virus replication through targeting PACT. IMPORTANCE Stress granule (SG) formation is a conserved cellular strategy to reduce stress-related damage regulating cell survival. A mass spectrometry-based profiling of the interactome of PPRV N protein revealed that PPRV N interacted with PACT to regulate the assembly of SGs. N protein inhibited the interaction between PACT and a PKR inhibitor, TRBP, through binding to the M1 domain of PACT, which enhanced the interaction between PACT and PKR and thus promoted PKR activation and subsequent eIF2alpha phosphorylation as well as SG formation. The regulatory function of N protein was strikingly abrogated in PACT(-/-) cells. SGs induced by PPRV infection through the PKR/eIF2alpha pathway are PACT dependent. The loss-of-function assay indicated that PPRV-induced SGs were critical for PPRV replication. We concluded that the PPRV N protein manipulates the host PKR/eIF2alpha/SG axis to favor virus replication.
PXD037443	36652389	Exploring an Alternative Cysteine-Reactive Chemistry to Enable Proteome-Wide PPI Analysis by Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Exploring Alternative Cysteine-reactive Chemistry for MS-cleavable Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry	cross-linking mass spectrometry, cysteine	The development of MS-cleavable cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has enabled the effective capture and identification of endogenous protein-protein interactions (PPIs) and their residue contacts at the global scale without cell engineering. So far, only lysine-reactive cross-linkers have been successfully applied for proteome-wide PPI profiling. However, lysine cross-linkers alone cannot uncover the complete PPI map in cells. Previously, we have developed a maleimide-based cysteine-reactive MS-cleavable cross-linker (bismaleimide sulfoxide (BMSO)) that is effective for mapping PPIs of protein complexes to yield interaction contacts complementary to lysine-reactive reagents. While successful, the hydrolysis and limited selectivity of maleimides at physiological pH make their applications in proteome-wide XL-MS challenging. To enable global PPI mapping, we have explored an alternative cysteine-labeling chemistry and thus designed and synthesized a sulfoxide-containing MS-cleavable haloacetamide-based cross-linker, Dibromoacetamide sulfoxide (DBrASO). Our results have demonstrated that DBrASO cross-linked peptides display the same fragmentation characteristics as other sulfoxide-containing MS-cleavable cross-linkers, permitting their unambiguous identification by MS(n). In combination with a newly developed two-dimensional peptide fractionation method, we have successfully performed DBrASO-based XL-MS analysis of HEK293 cell lysates and demonstrated its capability to complement lysine-reactive reagents and expand PPI coverage at the systems-level.
PXD038912	36653023	NDR kinase tricornered genetically interacts with Ccm3 and metabolic enzymes in Drosophila melanogaster tracheal development. 	NDR kinase Tricornered genetically interacts with Ccm3 and metabolic enzymes in Drosophila melanogaster tracheal development	Drosophila, NDR kinase, Tricornered, trachea	The Germinal Center Kinase III (GckIII) pathway is a Hippo-like kinase module defined by sequential activation of Ste20 kinases Thousand and One (Tao) and GckIII, followed by nuclear dbf2-related (NDR) kinase Tricornered (Trc). We previously uncovered a role for the GckIII pathway in Drosophila melanogaster tracheal (respiratory) tube morphology. The trachea form a network of branched epithelial tubes essential for oxygen transport, and are structurally analogous to branched tubular organs in vertebrates, such as the vascular system. In the absence of GckIII pathway function, aberrant dilations form in tracheal tubes characterized by mislocalized junctional and apical proteins, suggesting that the pathway is important in maintaining tube integrity in development. Here, we observed a genetic interaction between trc and Cerebral cavernous malformations 3 (Ccm3), the Drosophila ortholog of a human vascular disease gene, supporting our hypothesis that the GckIII pathway functions downstream of Ccm3 in trachea, and potentially in the vertebrate cerebral vasculature. However, how GckIII pathway signaling is regulated and the mechanisms that underpin its function in tracheal development are unknown. We undertook biochemical and genetic approaches to identify proteins that interact with Trc, the most downstream GckIII pathway kinase. We found that known GckIII and NDR scaffold proteins are likely to control GckIII pathway signaling in tracheal development, consistent with their conserved roles in Hippo-like modules. Furthermore, we show genetic interactions between trc and multiple enzymes in glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation, suggesting a potential function of the GckIII pathway in integrating cellular energy requirements with maintenance of tube integrity.
PXD032019	36653408	A streamlined tandem tip-based workflow for sensitive nanoscale phosphoproteomics. 	A streamlined tandem tip-based workflow for sensitive nanoscale phosphoproteomics	Boosting to Amplify the Signal with Isobaric Labeling, Surfactant-assisted One-Pot sample preparation, Tip IMAC, near single-cell, phosphoproteome	Effective phosphoproteome of nanoscale sample analysis remains a daunting task, primarily due to significant sample loss associated with non-specific surface adsorption during enrichment of low stoichiometric phosphopeptide. We develop a tandem tip phosphoproteomics sample preparation method that is capable of sample cleanup and enrichment without additional sample transfer, and its integration with our recently developed SOP (Surfactant-assisted One-Pot sample preparation) and iBASIL (improved Boosting to Amplify Signal with Isobaric Labeling) approaches provides a streamlined workflow enabling sensitive, high-throughput nanoscale phosphoproteome measurements. This approach significantly reduces both sample loss and processing time, allowing the identification of >3000 (>9500) phosphopeptides from 1 (10) microg of cell lysate using the label-free method without a spectral library. It also enables precise quantification of ~600 phosphopeptides from 100 sorted cells (single-cell level input for the enriched phosphopeptides) and ~700 phosphopeptides from human spleen tissue voxels with a spatial resolution of 200 microm (equivalent to ~100 cells) in a high-throughput manner. The new workflow opens avenues for phosphoproteome profiling of mass-limited samples at the low nanogram level.
PXD026866	36653451	A molecular network of conserved factors keeps ribosomes dormant in the egg. 	A molecular network of conserved factors keeps ribosomes dormant in the egg	Xenopus, Zebrafish, cross-linking, cryo-EM, mass-spectrometry, ribosome	Ribosomes are produced in large quantities during oogenesis and are stored in the egg. However, the egg and early embryo are translationally repressed(1-4). Here, using mass spectrometry and cryo-electron microscopy analyses of ribosomes isolated from zebrafish (Danio rerio) and Xenopus laevis eggs and embryos, we provide molecular evidence that ribosomes transition from a dormant state to an active state during the first hours of embryogenesis. Dormant ribosomes are associated with four conserved factors that form two modules, consisting of Habp4-eEF2 and death associated protein 1b (Dap1b) or Dap in complex with eIF5a. Both modules occupy functionally important sites and act together to stabilize ribosomes and repress translation. Dap1b (also known as Dapl1 in mammals) is a newly discovered translational inhibitor that stably inserts into the polypeptide exit tunnel. Addition of recombinant zebrafish Dap1b protein is sufficient to block translation and reconstitute the dormant egg ribosome state in a mammalian translation extract in vitro. Thus, a developmentally programmed, conserved ribosome state has a key role in ribosome storage and translational repression in the egg.
PXD038587	36653467	An epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition induced extracellular vesicle prognostic signature in non-small cell lung cancer. 	Lung Cancer Exosomes Hypoxic v Normoxic	NSCLC, exosomes	Despite significant therapeutic advances, lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide(1). Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients have a very poor overall five-year survival rate of only 10-20%. Currently, TNM staging is the gold standard for predicting overall survival and selecting optimal initial treatment options for NSCLC patients, including those with curable stages of disease. However, many patients with locoregionally-confined NSCLC relapse and die despite curative-intent interventions, indicating a need for intensified, individualised therapies. Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), the phenotypic depolarisation of epithelial cells to elongated, mesenchymal cells, is associated with metastatic and treatment-refractive cancer. We demonstrate here that EMT-induced protein changes in small extracellular vesicles are detectable in NSCLC patients and have prognostic significance. Overall, this work describes a novel prognostic biomarker signature that identifies potentially-curable NSCLC patients at risk of developing metastatic NSCLC, thereby enabling implementation of personalised treatment decisions.
PXD035918	36653852	Minimal expression of dysferlin prevents development of dysferlinopathy in dysferlin exon 40a knockout mice. 	Minimal expression of dysferlin prevents development of muscular dystrophy in dysferlin exon 40a knockout mice (second dataset)	dysferlin, exon knockout, mice, muscular dystrophy	Dysferlin is a Ca(2+)-activated lipid binding protein implicated in muscle membrane repair. Recessive variants in DYSF result in dysferlinopathy, a progressive muscular dystrophy. We showed previously that calpain cleavage within a motif encoded by alternatively spliced exon 40a releases a 72 kDa C-terminal minidysferlin recruited to injured sarcolemma. Herein we use CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing to knock out murine Dysf exon 40a, to specifically assess its role in membrane repair and development of dysferlinopathy. We created three Dysf exon 40a knockout (40aKO) mouse lines that each express different levels of dysferlin protein ranging from ~ 90%, ~ 50% and ~ 10-20% levels of wild-type. Histopathological analysis of skeletal muscles from all 12-month-old 40aKO lines showed virtual absence of dystrophic features and normal membrane repair capacity for all three 40aKO lines, as compared with dysferlin-null BLAJ mice. Further, lipidomic and proteomic analyses on 18wk old quadriceps show all three 40aKO lines are spared the profound lipidomic/proteomic imbalance that characterises dysferlin-deficient BLAJ muscles. Collective results indicate that membrane repair does not depend upon calpain cleavage within exon 40a and that ~ 10-20% of WT dysferlin protein expression is sufficient to maintain the muscle lipidome, proteome and membrane repair capacity to crucially prevent development of dysferlinopathy.
PXD037673	36654748	Behavioral and Proteomic Studies Reveal Methylglyoxal Activate Pathways Associated with Alzheimer's Disease. 	IDA-SWATH proteomic analysis of rat hippocampus upon methylglyoxal treatment	Hippocampus, Methylglyoxal, Rat	Diabetes is one of the major risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD) development. The role of elevated levels of glucose, methylglyoxal (MGO), and advanced glycation end products (AGEs) in the pathogenesis of AD is not well understood. In this pursuit, we studied the role of methylglyoxal in the pathogenesis of AD in rat models. The elevated plus-maze (EPM) behavioral study indicated that MGO induces anxiety. Treatment of telmisartan (RAGE expression inhibitor) and aminoguanidine (MGO quencher) attenuated MGO induced anxiety. Further, hippocampal proteomics demonstrated that MGO treated rats differentially regulate proteins involved in calcium homeostasis, mitochondrial functioning, and apoptosis, which may affect neurotransmission and neuronal plasticity. The hippocampal tau phosphorylation level was increased in MGO treated rats, which was reduced in the presence of aminoguanidine and telmisartan. The plasma fructosamine level was increased upon MGO treatment. Hippocampal histochemistry showed vascular degeneration and neuronal loss upon MGO treatment. This study provides mechanistic insight into the role of MGO in the diabetes-associated development of AD.
PXD028862	36656713	Prevalent and immunodominant CD8 T cell epitopes are conserved in SARS-CoV-2 variants. 	Public T cell epitopes shared among SARS-CoV-2 Public T cell epitopes shared among SARS-CoV-2 variants are presented on prevalent HLA class I alleles variants are presented on prevalent HLA class I alleles	Immunopeptidomics, LC-MS, SARS-CoV-2	The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOC) is driven by mutations that mediate escape from neutralizing antibodies. There is also evidence that mutations can cause loss of T cell epitopes. However, studies on viral escape from T cell immunity have been hampered by uncertain estimates of epitope prevalence. Here, we map and quantify CD8 T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2-specific minimal epitopes in blood drawn from April to June 2020 from 83 COVID-19 convalescents. Among 37 HLA ligands eluted from five prevalent alleles and an additional 86 predicted binders, we identify 29 epitopes with an immunoprevalence ranging from 3% to 100% among individuals expressing the relevant HLA allele. Mutations in VOC are reported in 10.3% of the epitopes, while 20.6% of the non-immunogenic peptides are mutated in VOC. The nine most prevalent epitopes are conserved in VOC. Thus, comprehensive mapping of epitope prevalence does not provide evidence that mutations in VOC are driven by escape of T cell immunity.
PXD035332	36657393	Gene-by-gene screen of the unknown proteins encoded on Plasmodium falciparum chromosome 3. 	Plasmodium falciparum Chr3C7 and Chr3C16 DiQ-BioID data	Malaria, Plasmodium falciparum, chromosome-wide screen, mitosis, subcellular localisation	Taxon-specific proteins are key determinants defining the biology of all organisms and represent prime drug targets in pathogens. However, lacking comparability with proteins in other lineages makes them particularly difficult to study. In malaria parasites, this is exacerbated by technical limitations. Here, we analyzed the cellular location, essentiality, function, and, in selected cases, interactome of all unknown non-secretory proteins encoded on an entire P. falciparum chromosome. The nucleus was the most common localization, indicating that it is a hotspot of parasite-specific biology. More in-depth functional studies with four proteins revealed essential roles in DNA replication and mitosis. The mitosis proteins defined a possible orphan complex and a highly diverged complex needed for spindle-kinetochore connection. Structure-function comparisons indicated that the taxon-specific proteins evolved by different mechanisms. This work demonstrates the feasibility of gene-by-gene screens to elucidate the biology of malaria parasites and reveal critical parasite-specific processes of interest as drug targets.
PXD037076	36657446	Using patient-derived organoids to predict locally advanced or metastatic lung cancer tumor response: A real-world study. 	Using patient-derived organoids to predict locally advanced or metastatic lung cancer tumor response: a real-world study	Drug test, Lung cancer, Organoid, Precision medicine	Predicting the clinical response to chemotherapeutic or targeted treatment in patients with locally advanced or metastatic lung cancer requires an accurate and affordable tool. Tumor organoids are a potential approach in precision medicine for predicting the clinical response to treatment. However, their clinical application in lung cancer has rarely been reported because of the difficulty in generating pure tumor organoids. In this study, we have generated 214 cancer organoids from 107 patients, of which 212 are lung cancer organoids (LCOs), primarily derived from malignant serous effusions. LCO-based drug sensitivity tests (LCO-DSTs) for chemotherapy and targeted therapy have been performed in a real-world study to predict the clinical response to the respective treatment. LCO-DSTs accurately predict the clinical response to treatment in this cohort of patients with advanced lung cancer. In conclusion, LCO-DST is a promising precision medicine tool in treating of advanced lung cancer.
PXD038459	36658132	Structural insights into DNA N(6)-adenine methylation by the MTA1 complex. 	Analysis of the structure of the MTA1 complex using chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry	DNA methylation, MTA1 complex, cross-linking mass spectrometry	N(6)-methyldeoxyadenine (6mA) has recently been reported as a prevalent DNA modification in eukaryotes. The Tetrahymena thermophila MTA1 complex consisting of four subunits, namely MTA1, MTA9, p1, and p2, is the first identified eukaryotic 6mA methyltransferase (MTase) complex. Unlike the prokaryotic 6mA MTases which have been biochemically and structurally characterized, the operation mode of the MTA1 complex remains largely elusive. Here, we report the cryogenic electron microscopy structures of the quaternary MTA1 complex in S-adenosyl methionine (SAM)-bound (2.6 Aa) and S-adenosyl homocysteine (SAH)-bound (2.8 Aa) states. Using an AI-empowered integrative approach based on AlphaFold prediction and chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry, we further modeled a near-complete structure of the quaternary complex. Coupled with biochemical characterization, we revealed that MTA1 serves as the catalytic core, MTA1, MTA9, and p1 likely accommodate the substrate DNA, and p2 may facilitate the stabilization of MTA1. These results together offer insights into the molecular mechanism underpinning methylation by the MTA1 complex and the potential diversification of MTases for N(6)-adenine methylation.
PXD037233	36658340	Engineered live bacteria suppress Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in mouse lung and dissolve endotracheal-tube biofilms. 	Engineered live bacteria suppress Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in mouse and dissolve biofilm in endotracheal tubes from patients	Engineered live bacteria, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, biofilm, endotracheal tubes, lung infection	Engineered live bacteria could provide a new modality for treating lung infections, a major cause of mortality worldwide. In the present study, we engineered a genome-reduced human lung bacterium, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, to treat ventilator-associated pneumonia, a disease with high hospital mortality when associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms. After validating the biosafety of an attenuated M. pneumoniae chassis in mice, we introduced four transgenes into the chromosome by transposition to implement bactericidal and biofilm degradation activities. We show that this engineered strain has high efficacy against an acute P. aeruginosa lung infection in a mouse model. In addition, we demonstrated that the engineered strain could dissolve biofilms formed in endotracheal tubes of patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia and be combined with antibiotics targeting the peptidoglycan layer to increase efficacy against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. We expect our M. pneumoniae-engineered strain to be able to treat biofilm-associated infections in the respiratory tract.
PXD037434	36658609	The growth, lipid accumulation and adaptation mechanism in response to variation of temperature and nitrogen supply in psychrotrophic filamentous microalga Xanthonema hormidioides (Xanthophyceae). 	The growth, lipid accumulation and adaptation mechanism in response to variation of temperature and nitrogen supply in psychrotrophic filamentous microalga Xanthonema hormidioides (Xanthophyceae)	Adaptation mechanism, Lipids accumulation, Proteomics analysis, Psychrotrophic microalgae, Xanthonema hormidioides	BACKGROUND: Microalgae are promising feedstocks for production of renewable biofuels and value-added bioproducts. Temperature and nitrogen supply are important environmental and nutritional factors affecting the growth and metabolism of microalgae, respectively. In this study, the growth and lipid accumulation of filamentous microalgae Xanthonema hormidioides under different temperatures (5, 7, 10, 15, 20, 25, 27 and 30 degreesC) and initial nitrogen concentrations (3, 9, 18 mM) were investigated, and its adaptive mechanisms of tolerance to low temperature and nitrogen stress were analysis by proteomics. RESULTS: The optimum temperature range for the growth of X. hormidioides was between 15 and 20 degreesC, and the algal cells had slow growth rate at 5 degreesC and could not survive at 30 degreesC. The maximum biomass concentration was 11.73 g L(-1) under the temperature of 20 degreesC, and the highest total lipid content was 56.63% of dry weight. Low temperature did not change the fatty acids profiles but promoted the accumulation of unsaturated fatty acids of X. hormidioides. The maximum contents of palmitoleic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid and total fatty acid were 23.64%, 2.49% and 41.14% of dry weight, respectively. Proteomics was performed under three temperature (7, 15, 25 degreesC), two nitrogen concentrations (3 and 18 mM) and two cultivation times (day 3 and 12). A total of 6503 proteins were identified. In the low temperature, photosynthesis-related proteins were down-regulated to protect the photosynthetic apparatus. The up-regulation of key enzymes DGAT and PDAT demonstrated the accumulation of TAGs under low nitrogen treatment. The proteins related to ribosome, phosphatidylinositol signaling system, antioxidant system and cold shock proteins (CSPs) in X. hormidioides were co-upregulated under the treatment of low temperature, which can alleviate the damages induced by temperature stress and maintain the normal growth and metabolism of algal cells. CONCLUSIONS: X. hormidioides is a psychrotolerant microalga. It is an oleaginous filamentous microalga containing hyper palmitoleic acid and a certain amount of eicosapentaenoic acid with great potential for biofuel development, as well as for applications in nutritional health products and other industries.
PXD037835	36660429	Balanced activities of Hsp70 and the ubiquitin proteasome system underlie cellular protein homeostasis. 	Cellular responses in yeast proteostasis mutants affected in diverse branches of the protein quality control system	Hsp70, chaperone, proteasome, proteostasis, sequestrases	To counteract proteotoxic stress and cellular aging, protein quality control (PQC) systems rely on the refolding, degradation and sequestration of misfolded proteins. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the Hsp70 chaperone system plays a central role in protein refolding, while degradation is predominantly executed by the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS). The sequestrases Hsp42 and Btn2 deposit misfolded proteins in cytosolic and nuclear inclusions, thereby restricting the accessibility of misfolded proteins to Hsp70 and preventing the exhaustion of limited Hsp70 resources. Therefore, in yeast, sequestrase mutants show negative genetic interactions with double mutants lacking the Hsp70 co-chaperone Fes1 and the Hsp104 disaggregase (fes1Delta hsp104Delta, DeltaDelta) and suffering from low Hsp70 capacity. Growth of DeltaDeltabtn2Delta mutants is highly temperature-sensitive and results in proteostasis breakdown at non-permissive temperatures. Here, we probed for the role of the ubiquitin proteasome system in maintaining protein homeostasis in DeltaDeltabtn2Delta cells, which are affected in two major protein quality control branches. We show that DeltaDeltabtn2Delta cells induce expression of diverse stress-related pathways including the ubiquitin proteasome system to counteract the proteostasis defects. Ubiquitin proteasome system dependent degradation of the stringent Hsp70 substrate firefly Luciferase in the mutant cells mirrors such compensatory activities of the protein quality control system. Surprisingly however, the enhanced ubiquitin proteasome system activity does not improve but aggravates the growth defects of DeltaDeltabtn2Delta cells. Reducing ubiquitin proteasome system activity in the mutant by lowering the levels of functional 26S proteasomes improved growth, increased refolding yield of the Luciferase reporter and attenuated global stress responses. Our findings indicate that an imbalance between Hsp70-dependent refolding, sequestration and ubiquitin proteasome system-mediated degradation activities strongly affects protein homeostasis of Hsp70 capacity mutants and contributes to their severe growth phenotypes.
PXD032286	36660462	Integrated Proteomic and N-Glycoproteomic Profiling of Placental Tissues of Patients with Preeclampsia. 	Integrated proteomic and N-glycoproteomic profiling of placental tissues of patients with preeclampsia	Preeclampsia, glycoproteomics, glycosylation, placenta	Background: Preeclampsia (PE) is a multi-system disorder of pregnancy that poses a serious threat to maternal and perinatal health worldwide. This study aims to evaluate the global alterations of protein expression and N-glycosylations that are crucial for PE pathogenesis. Here, tandem mass tag labeling combined with LC-MS/MS was employed to determine the global expression of all proteins and intact glycopeptide in placentas from three healthy pregnant women, three patients with early-onset severe PE, and three patients with late-onset severe PE. Results: A total of 2260 proteins were quantified across 9 placental tissues, of which 37 and 23 were differentially expressed in the early-onset and late-onset PE groups, compared to the controls. A total of 789 glycopeptides were accurately quantified, which were derived from 204 glycosylated sites in 159 glycoproteins and were modified by 59 N-Linked glycans. A total of 123 differently expressed glycopeptides, which were from 47 glycoproteins were identified among three groups. Through a combined analysis of proteomic and glycoproteomic data, it was found that the changes in 10 glycoproteins were caused by the difference in glycosylation level but not in the protein abundance level. Conclusion: This is the first study to conduct an integrated proteomic and glycoproteomic characterization of placental tissues of PE patients. Our findings suggest that glycosylation modification may affect the molecular function of proteins through changes in the glycosylation structure or the occupancy of glycosylation, which will provide new insights to help elucidating the pathogenic mechanism of PE.
PXD031600	36660824	A bio-orthogonal linear ubiquitin probe identifies STAT3 as a direct substrate of OTULIN in glioblastoma. 	Proteomic  analysis of linear ubiquitination substrates based on NAEK-Ub probe in live cells	Linear ubiquitination, NAEK-Ub, bio-orthogonal probe, live cells	While linear ubiquitin plays critical roles in multiple cell signaling pathways, few substrates have been identified. Global profiling of linear ubiquitin substrates represents a significant challenge because of the low endogenous level of linear ubiquitination and the background interference arising from highly abundant ubiquitin linkages (e.g. K48- and K63-) and from the non-specific attachment of interfering proteins to the linear polyubiquitin chain. We developed a bio-orthogonal linear ubiquitin probe by site-specific encoding of a norbornene amino acid on ubiquitin (NAEK-Ub). This probe facilitates covalent labeling of linear ubiquitin substrates in live cells and enables selective enrichment and identification of linear ubiquitin-modified proteins. Given the fact that the frequent overexpression of the linear linkage-specific deubiquitinase OTULIN correlates with poor prognosis in glioblastoma, we demonstrated the feasibility of the NAEK-Ub strategy by identifying and validating substrates of linear ubiquitination in patient-derived glioblastoma stem-like cells (GSCs). We identified STAT3 as a bona fide substrate of linear ubiquitin, and showed that linear ubiquitination negatively regulates STAT3 activity by recruitment of the phosphatase TC-PTP to STAT3. Furthermore, we demonstrated that preferential expression of OTULIN in GSCs restricts linear ubiquitination on STAT3 and drives persistent STAT3 signaling, and thereby maintains the stemness and self-renewal of GSCs.
PXD038944	36660859	Glycolytic Pfkp acts as a Lin41 protein kinase to promote endodermal differentiation of embryonic stem cells. 	Mouse embryonic stem cells LCMS-MS	LCMS-MS, embryonic stem cells	Unveiling the principles governing embryonic stem cell (ESC) differentiation into specific lineages is critical for understanding embryonic development and for stem cell applications in regenerative medicine. Here, we establish an intersection between LIF-Stat3 signaling that is essential for maintaining murine (m) ESCs pluripotency, and the glycolytic enzyme, the platelet isoform of phosphofructokinase (Pfkp). In the pluripotent state, Stat3 transcriptionally suppresses Pfkp in mESCs while manipulating the cells to lift this repression results in differentiation towards the ectodermal lineage. Pfkp exhibits substrate specificity changes to act as a protein kinase, catalyzing serine phosphorylation of the developmental regulator Lin41. Such phosphorylation stabilizes Lin41 by impeding its autoubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, permitting Lin41-mediated binding and destabilization of mRNAs encoding ectodermal specification markers to favor the expression of endodermal specification genes. This provides new insights into the wiring of pluripotency-differentiation circuitry where Pfkp plays a role in germ layer specification during mESC differentiation.
PXD017085	36660928	Mapping the signaling network of BIN2 kinase using TurboID-mediated biotin labeling and phosphoproteomics. 	Application of TurboID-mediated proximity labeling and phosphoproteomics for mapping a GSK3 kinase signaling network in Arabidopsis	GSK3 kinase, TurboID, biotinylation, phosphoproteomics, plant, protein interactome, protein-protein interaction, proximity labeling	Elucidating enzyme-substrate relationships in posttranslational modification (PTM) networks is crucial for understanding signal transduction pathways but is technically difficult because enzyme-substrate interactions tend to be transient. Here, we demonstrate that TurboID-based proximity labeling (TbPL) effectively and specifically captures the substrates of kinases and phosphatases. TbPL-mass spectrometry (TbPL-MS) identified over 400 proximal proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana BRASSINOSTEROID-INSENSITIVE2 (BIN2), a member of the GLYCOGEN SYNTHASE KINASE 3 (GSK3) family that integrates signaling pathways controlling diverse developmental and acclimation processes. A large portion of the BIN2-proximal proteins showed BIN2-dependent phosphorylation in vivo or in vitro, suggesting that these are BIN2 substrates. Protein-protein interaction network analysis showed that the BIN2-proximal proteins include interactors of BIN2 substrates, revealing a high level of interactions among the BIN2-proximal proteins. Our proteomic analysis establishes the BIN2 signaling network and uncovers BIN2 functions in regulating key cellular processes such as transcription, RNA processing, translation initiation, vesicle trafficking, and cytoskeleton organization. We further discovered significant overlap between the GSK3 phosphorylome and the O-GlcNAcylome, suggesting an evolutionarily ancient relationship between GSK3 and the nutrient-sensing O-glycosylation pathway. Our work presents a powerful method for mapping PTM networks, a large dataset of GSK3 kinase substrates, and important insights into the signaling network that controls key cellular functions underlying plant growth and acclimation.
PXD038105	36661393	Isoform-specific modification of apolipoprotein E by 4-hydroxynonenal: protective role of apolipoprotein E3 against oxidative species. 	LC-MS/MS of HNE-apoE3 and HNE-apoE4	ApoE3, ApoE4, HNE	High levels of 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), arising from lipid peroxidation, and HNE-modified proteins have been identified in postmortem brains of ageing and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The goal of this study is to understand the effect of HNE modification on the structure and function of recombinant apolipoprotein E3 (apoE3) and apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4), which play a critical role in brain cholesterol homeostasis. The two isoforms differ in a single amino acid at position 112: Cys in apoE3 and Arg in apoE4. Immunoblot with HNE-specific antibody indicates HNE modification of apoE3 and apoE4 with a major band at ~ 36 kDa, while LC-MS/MS revealed Michael addition at His140 (60-70% abundance) and His299 (3-5% abundance) in apoE3 and apoE4, and Cys112 adduct in apoE3 (75% abundance). Circular dichroism spectroscopy revealed no major differences in the overall secondary structure or helical content between unmodified and HNE-modified apoE. HNE modification did not affect their ability to promote cholesterol efflux from J774.1 macrophages. However, it led to a 3-fold decrease in their ability to bind lipids and 25-50% decrease in the ability of cerebral cortex endothelial cells to uptake lipoproteins bearing HNE-modified HNE-apoE3 or HNE-apoE4 as noted by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. Taken together, the data indicate that HNE modification impairs lipid binding and cellular uptake of both isoforms, and that apoE3, bearing a Cys, offers a protective role by sequestering lipid peroxidation products that would otherwise cause indiscriminate damage to biomolecules. ApoE4, lacking Cys, is unable to protect against oxidative damage that is commensurate with ageing.
PXD038844	36662572	Denitrification by Bradyrhizobia under Feast and Famine and the Role of the bc1 Complex in Securing Electrons for N2O Reduction. 	Denitrification by bradyrhizobia under feast and famine and the role of the bc1 complex in securing electrons for N2O reduction	bradyrhizobia, denitrification	Rhizobia living as microsymbionts inside nodules have stable access to carbon substrates, but also must survive as free-living bacteria in soil where they are starved for carbon and energy most of the time. Many rhizobia can denitrify, thus switch to anaerobic respiration under low O2 tension using N-oxides as electron acceptors. The cellular machinery regulating this transition is relatively well known from studies under optimal laboratory conditions, while little is known about this regulation in starved organisms. It is, for example, not known if the strong preference for N2O- over NO3(-) reduction in bradyrhizobia is retained under carbon limitation. Here, we show that starved cultures of a Bradyrhizobium strain with respiration rates 1 to 18% of well-fed cultures reduced all available N2O before touching provided NO3(-). These organisms, which carry out complete denitrification, have the periplasmic nitrate reductase NapA but lack the membrane-bound nitrate reductase NarG. Proteomics showed similar levels of NapA and NosZ (N2O reductase), excluding that the lack of NO3(-) reduction was due to low NapA abundance. Instead, this points to a metabolic-level phenomenon where the bc1 complex, which channels electrons to NosZ via cytochromes, is a much stronger competitor for electrons from the quinol pool than the NapC enzyme, which provides electrons to NapA via NapB. The results contrast the general notion that NosZ activity diminishes under carbon limitation and suggest that bradyrhizobia carrying NosZ can act as strong sinks for N2O under natural conditions, implying that this criterion should be considered in the development of biofertilizers. IMPORTANCE Legume cropped farmlands account for substantial N2O emissions globally. Legumes are commonly inoculated with N2-fixing bacteria, rhizobia, to improve crop yields. Rhizobia belonging to Bradyrhizobium, the microsymbionts of several economically important legumes, are generally capable of denitrification but many lack genes encoding N2O reductase and will be N2O sources. Bradyrhizobia with complete denitrification will instead act as sinks since N2O-reduction efficiently competes for electrons over nitrate reduction in these organisms. This phenomenon has only been demonstrated under optimal conditions and it is not known how carbon substrate limitation, which is the common situation in most soils, affects the denitrification phenotype. Here, we demonstrate that bradyrhizobia retain their strong preference for N2O under carbon starvation. The findings add basic knowledge about mechanisms controlling denitrification and support the potential for developing novel methods for greenhouse gas mitigation based on legume inoculants with the dual capacity to optimize N2 fixation and minimize N2O emission.
PXD039071	36662617	Type I interferon/STAT1 signaling regulates UBE2M-mediated antiviral innate immunity in a negative feedback manner. 	Type I interferon/STAT1 signaling negative feedback regulates UBE2M-mediated antiviral innate immunity	HEK293T NIH-3T3 LC-MSMS RIG-I UBE2M	Type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling is central to inducing antiviral innate immunity. However, the mechanisms for IFN-I signaling self-regulation are still largely unknown. Here, we report that RNA virus-infected macrophages with UBE2M deficiency produced decreased IFN-I expression in a RIG-I-dependent manner, causing an aggravated viral infection. Mechanistically, UBE2M inhibits RIG-I degradation by preventing the interaction of RIG-I and E3 ligase STUB1, resulting in antiviral IFN-I signaling activation. Simultaneously, IFN-I signaling-activated STAT1 facilitates the transcription of Trim21, leading to increased UBE2M degradation and blunted antiviral immunity. Translationally, oral administration of milk-derived extracellular vesicles containing RING domain-truncated TRIM21 (TRIM21-DeltaRING) lacking E3 ligase activity efficiently transfers TRIM21-DeltaRING into macrophages. TRIM21-DeltaRING suppresses UBE2M degradation by competitively binding to UBE2M with TRIM21, thereby enhancing antiviral immunity. Overall, we reveal a negative feedback loop of IFN-I signaling and develop a reagent to improve innate immunity against RNA viruses.
PXD037166	36668824	Cells Responding to Closely Related Cholesterol-Dependent Cytolysins Release Extracellular Vesicles with a Common Proteomic Content Including Membrane Repair Proteins. 	Cells responding to bacterial pore-forming toxins release extracellular vesicles displaying similar proteomic content	HeLa, Q Exactive, calcium influx, extracellular vesicles, label-free, listeriolysin O, plasma membrane repair, pneumolysin, pore-forming toxins, shedding	The plasma membrane (PM) protects cells from extracellular threats and supports cellular homeostasis. Some pathogens produce pore-forming toxins (PFTs) that disrupt PM integrity by forming transmembrane pores. High PFT concentrations cause massive damage leading to cell death and facilitating infection. Sub-lytic PFT doses activate repair mechanisms to restore PM integrity, support cell survival and limit disease. Shedding of extracellular vesicles (EVs) has been proposed as a key mechanism to eliminate PFT pores and restore PM integrity. We show here that cholesterol-dependent cytolysins (CDCs), a specific family of PFTs, are at least partially eliminated through EVs release, and we hypothesize that proteins important for PM repair might be included in EVs shed by cells during repair. To identify new PM repair proteins, we collected EVs released by cells challenged with sub-lytic doses of two different bacterial CDCs, listeriolysin O and pneumolysin, and determined the EV proteomic repertoire by LC-MS/MS. Intoxicated cells release similar EVs irrespectively of the CDC used. Also, they release more and larger EVs than non-intoxicated cells. A cluster of 70 proteins including calcium-binding proteins, molecular chaperones, cytoskeletal, scaffold and membrane trafficking proteins, was detected enriched in EVs collected from intoxicated cells. While some of these proteins have well-characterized roles in repair, the involvement of others requires further study. As proof of concept, we show here that Copine-1 and Copine-3, proteins abundantly detected in EVs released by intoxicated cells, are required for efficient repair of CDC-induced PM damage. Additionally, we reveal here new proteins potentially involved in PM repair and give new insights into common mechanisms and machinery engaged by cells in response to PM damage.
PXD034636	36669591	Proteomic Discovery of Plasma Protein Biomarkers and Development of Models Predicting Prognosis of High-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of blood biomarkers predicting prognosis of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma	BoxCar, Plasma, biomarker	Ovarian cancer is one of the most lethal female cancers. For accurate prognosis prediction, this study aimed to investigate novel, blood-based prognostic biomarkers for high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) using mass spectrometry-based proteomics methods. We conducted label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry using frozen plasma samples obtained from patients with newly diagnosed HGSOC (n = 20). Based on progression-free survival (PFS), the samples were divided into two groups: good (PFS >=18 months) and poor prognosis groups (PFS <18 months). Proteomic profiles were compared between the two groups. Referring to proteomics data that we previously obtained using frozen cancer tissues from chemotherapy-naive patients with HGSOC, overlapping protein biomarkers were selected as candidate biomarkers. Biomarkers were validated using an independent set of HGSOC plasma samples (n = 202) via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). To construct models predicting the 18-month PFS rate, we performed stepwise selection based on the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) with 5-fold cross-validation. Analysis of differentially expressed proteins in plasma samples revealed that 35 and 61 proteins were upregulated in the good and poor prognosis groups, respectively. Through hierarchical clustering and bioinformatic analyses, GSN, VCAN, SND1, SIGLEC14, CD163, and PRMT1 were selected as candidate biomarkers and were subjected to ELISA. In multivariate analysis, plasma GSN was identified as an independent poor prognostic biomarker for PFS (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.556; 95% confidence interval, 1.073-2.256; p = 0.020). By combining clinical factors and ELISA results, we constructed several models to predict the 18-month PFS rate. A model consisting of four predictors (FIGO stage, residual tumor after surgery, and plasma levels of GSN and VCAN) showed the best predictive performance (mean validated AUC, 0.779). The newly developed model was converted to a nomogram for clinical use. Our study results provided insights into protein biomarkers, which might offer clues for developing therapeutic targets.
PXD037450	36669592	O-Glycomic and Proteomic Signatures of Spontaneous and Butyrate-Stimulated Colorectal Cancer Cell Line Differentiation. 	Integrated glycomic and proteomic signatures of butyrate-stimulated colorectal cancer cell line differentiation	Caco-2, differentiation	Gut microbiota of the gastrointestinal tract provide health benefits to the human host via bacterial metabolites. Bacterial butyrate has beneficial effects on intestinal homeostasis and is the preferred energy source of intestinal epithelial cells, capable of inducing differentiation. It was previously observed that changes in the expression of specific proteins as well as protein glycosylation occur with differentiation. In this study, specific mucin O-glycans were identified that mark butyrate-induced epithelial differentiation of the intestinal cell line CaCo-2 (Cancer Coli-2), by applying porous graphitized carbon nano-liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Moreover, a quantitative proteomic approach was used to decipher changes in the cell proteome. It was found that the fully differentiated butyrate-stimulated cells are characterized by a higher expression of sialylated O-glycan structures, whereas fucosylation is downregulated with differentiation. By performing an integrative approach, we generated hypotheses about the origin of the observed O-glycome changes. These insights pave the way for future endeavors to study the dynamic O-glycosylation patterns in the gut, either produced via cellular biosynthesis or through the action of bacterial glycosidases as well as the functional role of these patterns in homeostasis and dysbiosis at the gut-microbiota interface.
PXD037165	36669767	Depletion assisted hemin affinity (DAsHA) proteomics reveals an expanded landscape of heme-binding proteins in the human proteome. 	Depletion Assisted Hemin Affinity (DAsHA) Proteomics Reveals an Expanded Landscape of Heme Binding Proteins in the Human Proteome	Heme, cell stress, heme affinity, heme binding protein, heme trafficking, hemin agarose, labile heme pool	Heme b (iron protoporphyrin IX) plays important roles in biology as a metallocofactor and signaling molecule. However, the targets of heme signaling and the network of proteins that mediate the exchange of heme from sites of synthesis or uptake to heme dependent or regulated proteins are poorly understood. Herein, we describe a quantitative mass spectrometry (MS)-based chemoproteomics strategy to identify exchange labile hemoproteins in human embryonic kidney HEK293 cells that may be relevant to heme signaling and trafficking. The strategy involves depleting endogenous heme with the heme biosynthetic inhibitor succinylacetone (SA), leaving putative heme-binding proteins in their apo-state, followed by the capture of those proteins using hemin-agarose resin, and finally elution and identification by MS. By identifying only those proteins that interact with high specificity to hemin-agarose relative to control beaded agarose in an SA-dependent manner, we have expanded the number of proteins and ontologies that may be involved in binding and buffering labile heme or are targets of heme signaling. Notably, these include proteins involved in chromatin remodeling, DNA damage response, RNA splicing, cytoskeletal organization, and vesicular trafficking, many of which have been associated with heme through complementary studies published recently. Taken together, these results provide support for the emerging role of heme in an expanded set of cellular processes from genome integrity to protein trafficking and beyond.
PXD036342	36670157	Membrane vesicles released by Lacticaseibacillus casei BL23 inhibit the biofilm formation of Salmonella Enteritidis. 	Comparison of purified membrane vesicles from L. casei submitted or not to density gradient ultracentrifugation	Lacticaseibacillus casei, density gradient, membrane vesicles, nanoLC-MS/MS	Biofilms represent a major concern in the food industry and healthcare. The use of probiotic bacteria and their derivatives as an alternative to conventional treatments to fight biofilm development is a promising option that has provided convincing results in the last decades. Recently, membrane vesicles (MVs) produced by probiotics have generated considerable interest due to the diversity of roles they have been associated with. However, the antimicrobial activity of probiotic MVs remains to be studied. In this work, we showed that membrane vesicles produced by Lacticaseibacillus casei BL23 (LC-MVs) exhibited strong antibiofilm activity against Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis (S. Enteritidis) without affecting bacterial growth. Furthermore, we found that LC-MVs affected the early stages of S. Enteritidis biofilm development and prevented attachment of bacteria to polystyrene surfaces. Importantly, LC-MVs did not impact the biomass of already established biofilms. We also demonstrated that the antibiofilm activity depended on the proteins associated with the LC-MV fraction. Finally, two peptidoglycan hydrolases (PGHs) were found to be associated with the antibiofilm activity of LC-MVs. Overall, this work allowed to identify the antibiofilm properties of LC-MVs and paved the way for the use of probiotic MVs against the development of negative biofilms.
PXD038603	36672527	Comprehensive Profiling of Early Neoplastic Gastric Microenvironment Modifications and Biodynamics in Impaired BMP-Signaling FoxL1(+)-Telocytes. 	Comprehensive Profiling of early Neoplastic Gastric Microen-vironment Modifications and Biodynamics in Impaired BMP-Signaling Foxl1+-Telocytes	BMP signaling, Epithelial-mesenchymal interaction, Extracellular matrix, FoxL1+-Telocytes, Matrisome, Me-chanical microenvironment	FoxL1(+)telocytes (TC(FoxL1+)) are novel gastrointestinal subepithelial cells that form a communication axis between the mesenchyme and epithelium. TC(FoxL1+) are strategically positioned to be key contributors to the microenvironment through production and secretion of growth factors and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. In recent years, the alteration of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in TC(FoxL1+) was demonstrated to trigger a toxic microenvironment with ECM remodeling that leads to the development of pre-neoplastic gastric lesions. However, a comprehensive analysis of variations in the ECM composition and its associated proteins in gastric neoplasia linked to TC(FoxL1+) dysregulation has never been performed. This study provides a better understanding of how TC(FoxL1+) defective BMP signaling participates in the gastric pre-neoplastic microenvironment. Using a proteomic approach, we determined the changes in the complete matrisome of BmpR1a(^FoxL1+) and control mice, both in total antrum as well as in isolated mesenchyme-enriched antrum fractions. Comparative proteomic analysis revealed that the deconstruction of the gastric antrum led to a more comprehensive analysis of the ECM fraction of gastric tissues microenvironment. These results show that TC(FoxL1+) are key members of the mesenchymal cell population and actively participate in the establishment of the matrisomic fraction of the microenvironment, thus influencing epithelial cell behavior.
PXD037129	36672654	Impact of Hypermannosylation on the Structure and Functionality of the ER and the Golgi Complex. 	Impact of mannosylation on structure and functionality of ER and Golgi	endoplasmic reticulum, golgi network, mannosylation	Proteins of the secretory pathway undergo glycosylation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi apparatus. Altered protein glycosylation can manifest in serious, sometimes fatal malfunctions. We recently showed that mutations in GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylase A (GMPPA) can cause a syndrome characterized by alacrima, achalasia, mental retardation, and myopathic alterations (AAMR syndrome). GMPPA acts as a feedback inhibitor of GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylase B (GMPPB), which provides GDP-mannose as a substrate for protein glycosylation. Loss of GMPPA thus enhances the incorporation of mannose into glycochains of various proteins, including alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG), a protein that links the extracellular matrix with the cytoskeleton. Here, we further characterized the consequences of loss of GMPPA for the secretory pathway. This includes a fragmentation of the Golgi apparatus, which comes along with a regulation of the abundance of several ER- and Golgi-resident proteins. We further show that the activity of the Golgi-associated endoprotease furin is reduced. Moreover, the fraction of alpha-DG, which is retained in the ER, is increased. Notably, WT cells cultured at a high mannose concentration display similar changes with increased retention of alpha-DG, altered structure of the Golgi apparatus, and a decrease in furin activity. In summary, our data underline the importance of a balanced mannose homeostasis for the secretory pathway.
PXD036020	36674321	Circulating Peptidome Is Strongly Altered in COVID-19 Patients. 	Circulating peptidome is strongly altered in COVID-19 patients	Biomarkers, COVID-19, Covid-19, Peptidomics, Protein degradation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Respiratory disease	Whilst the impact of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) on the host proteome, metabolome, and lipidome has been largely investigated in different bio-fluids, to date, the circulating peptidome remains unexplored. Thus, the present study aimed to apply an untargeted peptidomic approach to provide insight into alterations of circulating peptides in the development and severity of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The circulating peptidome from COVID-19 severe and mildly symptomatic patients and negative controls was characterized using LC-MS/MS analysis for identification and quantification purposes. Database search and statistical analysis allowed a complete characterization of the plasma peptidome and the detection of the most significant modulated peptides that were impacted by the infection. Our results highlighted not only that peptide abundance inversely correlates with disease severity, but also the involvement of biomolecules belonging to inflammatory, immune-response, and coagulation proteins/processes. Moreover, our data suggested a possible involvement of changes in protein degradation patterns. In the present research, for the first time, the untargeted peptidomic approach enabled the identification of circulating peptides potentially playing a crucial role in the progression of COVID-19.
PXD029399	36674590	ArtinM Cytotoxicity in B Cells Derived from Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Depends on Syk and Src Family Kinases. 	Quantitative proteomics of non hodgkin's	ArtinM, B cells, Burkitt's Lymphoma, apoptosis, carbohydrate recognition, death cells	Receptors on the immune cell surface have a variety of glycans that may account for the immunomodulation induced by lectins, which have a carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD) that binds to monosaccharides or oligosaccharides in a specific manner. ArtinM, a D-mannose-binding lectin obtained from Artocarpus heterophyllus, has affinity for the N-glycans core. Immunomodulation by ArtinM toward the Th1 phenotype occurs via its interaction with TLR2/CD14 N-glycans on antigen-presenting cells, as well as recognition of CD3gamma N-glycans on murine CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. ArtinM exerts a cytotoxic effect on Jurkat human leukemic T-cell line and human myeloid leukemia cell line (NB4). The current study evaluated the effects of ArtinM on murine and human B cells derived from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We found that murine B cells are recognized by ArtinM via the CRD, and the ArtinM stimulus did not augment the proliferation rate or production of IL-2. However, murine B cell incubation with ArtinM augmented the rate of apoptosis, and this cytotoxic effect of ArtinM was also seen in human B cell-lines sourced from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma Raji cell line. This cytotoxic effect was inhibited by the phosphatase activity of CD45 on Lck, and the protein kinases of the Src family contribute to cell death triggered by ArtinM.
PXD032099	36674989	Allogenic Adipose-Derived Stem Cells in Diabetic Foot Ulcer Treatment: Clinical Effectiveness, Safety, Survival in the Wound Site, and Proteomic Impact. 	Allogenic adipose-derived stem cells in DF treatment - are we closer to understanding their activity in humans	ADSC, diabieties, wound	Although encouraging results of adipose-derived stem cell (ADSC) use in wound healing are available, the mechanism of action has been studied mainly in vitro and in animals. This work aimed to examine the safety and efficacy of allogenic ADSCs in human diabetic foot ulcer treatment, in combination with the analyses of the wound. Equal groups of 23 participants each received fibrin gel with ADSCs or fibrin gel alone. The clinical effects were assessed at four time points: days 7, 14, 21 and 49. Material collected during debridement from a subset of each group was analyzed for the presence of ADSC donor DNA and proteomic changes. The reduction in wound size was greater at all subsequent visits, significantly on day 21 and 49, and the time to 50% reduction in the wound size was significantly shorter in patients who received ADSCs. Complete healing was achieved at the end of the study in seven patients treated with ADSCs vs. one treated without ADSCs. One week after ADSC application, 34 proteins significantly differentiated the material from both groups, seven of which, i.e., GAPDH, CAT, ACTN1, KRT1, KRT9, SCL4A1, and TPI, positively correlated with the healing rate. We detected ADSC donor DNA up to 21 days after administration. We confirmed ADSC-related improvement in wound healing that correlated with the molecular background, which provides insights into the role of ADSCs in wound healing-a step toward the development of cell-based therapies.
PXD034481	36675884	Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) Is Superior for High Precision Phospho-Peptide Quantification in Magnaporthe oryzae. 	Time series proteome and phosphoproteome of HOG1 deficient Magnaporthe oryzae osmostress	LFQ, Magnaporthe oryzae, Phosphoproteomics	The dynamic interplay of signaling networks in most major cellular processes is characterized by the orchestration of reversible protein phosphorylation. Consequently, analytic methods such as quantitative phospho-peptidomics have been pushed forward from a highly specialized edge-technique to a powerful and versatile platform for comprehensively analyzing the phosphorylation profile of living organisms. Despite enormous progress in instrumentation and bioinformatics, a high number of missing values caused by the experimental procedure remains a major problem, due to either a random phospho-peptide enrichment selectivity or borderline signal intensities, which both cause the exclusion for fragmentation using the commonly applied data dependent acquisition (DDA) mode. Consequently, an incomplete dataset reduces confidence in the subsequent statistical bioinformatic processing. Here, we successfully applied data independent acquisition (DIA) by using the filamentous fungus Magnaporthe oryzae as a model organism, and could prove that while maintaining data quality (such as phosphosite and peptide sequence confidence), the data completeness increases dramatically. Since the method presented here reduces the LC-MS/MS analysis from 3 h to 1 h and increases the number of phosphosites identified up to 10-fold in contrast to published studies in Magnaporthe oryzae, we provide a refined methodology and a sophisticated resource for investigation of signaling processes in filamentous fungi.
PXD038280	36677706	Lectin-Based Affinity Enrichment and Characterization of N-Glycoproteins from Human Tear Film by Mass Spectrometry. 	Lectin-based affinity enrichment and characterization of N-glycoproteins from the human tear film by mass spectrometry	N-glycoproteins, PNGase F, multi-lectin column, tear film	The glycosylation of proteins is one of the most common post-translational modifications (PTMs) and plays important regulatory functions in diverse biological processes such as protein stability or cell signaling. Accordingly, glycoproteins are also a consistent part of the human tear film proteome, maintaining the proper function of the ocular surface and forming the first defense barrier of the ocular immune system. Irregularities in the glycoproteomic composition of tear film might promote the development of chronic eye diseases, indicating glycoproteins as a valuable source for biomarker discovery or drug target identification. Therefore, the present study aimed to develop a lectin-based affinity method for the enrichment and concentration of tear glycoproteins/glycopeptides and to characterize their specific N-glycosylation sites by high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS). For method development and evaluation, we first accumulated native glycoproteins from human tear sample pools and assessed the enrichment efficiency of different lectin column systems by 1D gel electrophoresis and specific protein stainings (Coomassie and glycoproteins). The best-performing multi-lectin column system (comprising the four lectins ConA, JAC, WGA, and UEA I, termed 4L) was applied to glycopeptide enrichment from human tear sample digests, followed by MS-based detection and localization of their specific N-glycosylation sites. As the main result, our study identified a total of 26 N glycosylation sites of 11 N-glycoproteins in the tear sample pools of healthy individuals (n = 3 biological sample pools). Amongst others, we identified tear film proteins lactotransferrin (N497 and N642, LTF), Ig heavy chain constant alpha-1 (N144 and 340, IGHA1), prolactin-inducible protein (N105, PIP), and extracellular lacritin (N105, LACRT) as highly reliable and significant N glycoproteins, already associated with the pathogenesis of various chronic eye diseases such as dry eye syndrome (DES). In conclusion, the results of the present study will serve as an important tear film N-glycoprotein catalog for future studies focusing on human tear film and ocular surface-related inflammatory diseases.
PXD038834	36678346	Fructose Diet-Associated Molecular Alterations in Hypothalamus of Adolescent Rats: A Proteomic Approach. 	Proteomic elucidation of fructose-diet associated molecular alterations in hypothalamus of adolescent rats	adolescence, fructose-rich diet, hypothalamus, inflammation., mitochondria	BACKGROUND: The enhanced consumption of fructose as added sugar represents a major health concern. Due to the complexity and multiplicity of hypothalamic functions, we aim to point out early molecular alterations triggered by a sugar-rich diet throughout adolescence, and to verify their persistence until the young adulthood phase. METHODS: Thirty days old rats received a high-fructose or control diet for 3 weeks. At the end of the experimental period, treated animals were switched to the control diet for further 3 weeks, and then analyzed in comparison with those that were fed the control diet for the entire experimental period. RESULTS: Quantitative proteomics identified 19 differentially represented proteins, between control and fructose-fed groups, belonging to intermediate filament cytoskeleton, neurofilament, pore complex and mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes. Western blotting analysis confirmed proteomic data, evidencing a decreased abundance of mitochondrial respiratory complexes and voltage-dependent anion channel 1, the coregulator of mitochondrial biogenesis PGC-1alpha, and the protein subunit of neurofilaments alpha-internexin in fructose-fed rats. Diet-associated hypothalamic inflammation was also detected. Finally, the amount of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and its high-affinity receptor TrkB, as well as of synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and post-synaptic protein PSD-95 was reduced in sugar-fed rats. Notably, deregulated levels of all proteins were fully rescued after switching to the control diet. CONCLUSIONS: A short-term fructose-rich diet in adolescent rats induces hypothalamic inflammation and highly affects mitochondrial and cytoskeletal compartments, as well as the level of specific markers of brain function; above-reported effects are reverted after switching animals to the control diet.
PXD037410	36678443	Excretory/Secretory Proteome of Females and Males of the Hookworm Ancylostoma ceylanicum. 	Excretory/secretory proteome of the female and male hookworm Ancylostoma ceylanicum	Ancylostoma ceylanicum, ESP, Hookworm, helminth, parasite	The dynamic host-parasite mechanisms underlying hookworm infection establishment and maintenance in mammalian hosts remain poorly understood but are primarily mediated by hookworm's excretory/secretory products (ESPs), which have a wide spectrum of biological functions. We used ultra-high performance mass spectrometry to comprehensively profile and compare female and male ESPs from the zoonotic human hookworm Ancylostoma ceylanicum, which is a natural parasite of dogs, cats, and humans. We improved the genome annotation, decreasing the number of protein-coding genes by 49% while improving completeness from 92 to 96%. Compared to the previous genome annotation, we detected 11% and 10% more spectra in female and male ESPs, respectively, using this improved version, identifying a total of 795 ESPs (70% in both sexes, with the remaining sex-specific). Using functional databases (KEGG, GO and Interpro), common and sex-specific enriched functions were identified. Comparisons with the exclusively human-infective hookworm Necator americanus identified species-specific and conserved ESPs. This is the first study identifying ESPs from female and male A. ceylanicum. The findings provide a deeper understanding of hookworm protein functions that assure long-term host survival and facilitate future engineering of transgenic hookworms and analysis of regulatory elements mediating the high-level expression of ESPs. Furthermore, the findings expand the list of potential vaccine and diagnostic targets and identify biologics that can be explored for anti-inflammatory potential.
PXD038886	36678602	Combining the In Silico and In Vitro Assays to Identify Strobilanthes cusia Kuntze Bioactives against Penicillin-Resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae. 	Combine in silico target fishing, Comparative proteomics analysis and in vitro assays to identify antibacterial effects of a TCM (the leaves of Strobilanthes cusia Kuntze) against the Penicillin resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae	Comparative proteomics	Leaves of Strobilanthes cusia Kuntze (S. cusia) are a widely used alexipharmic Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) in southern China for the prevention of cold and respiratory tract infectious diseases. One of the most common bacterial pathogens in the respiratory tract is the gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae. The antibiotic resistance of colonized S. pneumoniae makes it a more serious threat to public health. In this study, the leaves of S. cusia were found to perform antibacterial effects on the penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae (PRSP). Confocal assay and Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) monitored the diminished cell wall integrity and capsule thickness of the PRSP with treatment. The following comparative proteomics analysis revealed that the glycometabolism-related pathways were enriched for the differentially expressed proteins between the samples with treatment and the control. To further delve into the specific single effective compound, the bio-active contents of leaves of S. cusia were analyzed by UPLC-UV-ESI-Q-TOF/MS, and 23 compounds were isolated for anti-PRSP screening. Among them, Tryptanthrin demonstrated the most promising effect, and it possibly inhibited the N-glycan degradation proteins, as suggested by reverse docking analysis in silico and further experimental verification by the surface plasmon resonance assay (SPR). Our study provided a research foundation for applications of the leaves of S. cusia as a TCM, and supplied a bio-active compound Tryptanthrin as a candidate drug skeleton for infectious diseases caused by the PRSP.
PXD036350	36680249	Design and Characterization of Mutated Variants of the Oncotoxic Parvoviral Protein NS1. 	Design and characterization of mutated variants  of the oncotoxic parvoviral protein NS1	HCC, LFQ, NP1, TMT, parvovirus H-1	Oncotoxic proteins such as the non-structural protein 1 (NS1), a constituent of the rodent parvovirus H1 (H1-PV), offer a novel approach for treatment of tumors that are refractory to other treatments. In the present study, mutated NS1 variants were designed and tested with respect to their oncotoxic potential in human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines. We introduced single point mutations of previously described important residues of the wild-type NS1 protein and a deletion of 114 base pairs localized within the N-terminal domain of NS1. Cell-viability screening with HepG2 and Hep3B hepatocarcinoma cells transfected with the constructed NS1-mutants led to identification of the single-amino acid NS1-mutant NS1-T585E, which led to a 30% decrease in cell viability as compared to NS1 wildtype. Using proteomics analysis, we could identify new interaction partners and signaling pathways of NS1. We could thus identify new oncotoxic NS1 variants and gain insight into the modes of action of NS1, which is exclusively toxic to human cancer cells. Our in-vitro studies provide mechanistic explanations for the observed oncolytic effects. Expression of NS1 variants had no effect on cell viability in NS1 unresponsive control HepG2 cells or primary mouse hepatocytes. The availability of new NS1 variants in combination with a better understanding of their modes of action offers new possibilities for the design of innovative cancer treatment strategies.
PXD037731	36681077	Isolation of extracellular fluids reveals novel secreted bioactive proteins from muscle and fat tissues. 	Isolation of interstitial fluids reveals novel secreted bioactive proteins from muscle and fat tissues	Interstial fluid, brown fat, muscle	Proteins are secreted from cells to send information to neighboring cells or distant tissues. Because of the highly integrated nature of energy balance systems, there has been particular interest in myokines and adipokines. These are challenging to study through proteomics because serum or plasma contains highly abundant proteins that limit the detection of proteins with lower abundance. We show here that extracellular fluid (EF) from muscle and fat tissues of mice shows a different protein composition than either serum or tissues. Mass spectrometry analyses of EFs from mice with physiological perturbations, like exercise or cold exposure, allowed the quantification of many potentially novel myokines and adipokines. Using this approach, we identify prosaposin as a secreted product of muscle and fat. Prosaposin expression stimulates thermogenic gene expression and induces mitochondrial respiration in primary fat cells. These studies together illustrate the utility of EF isolation as a discovery tool for adipokines and myokines.
PXD037955	36681668	Immunological and metabolic characteristics of the Omicron variants infection. 	Immunological and Metabolic Characteristics of the Omicron Variants Infection	Cos7 Cell, HLA class , Hepatitis B virus and SARS-CoV-2 peptides	The Omicron variants of SARS-CoV-2, primarily authenticated in November 2021 in South Africa, has initiated the 5th wave of global pandemics. Here, we systemically examined immunological and metabolic characteristics of Omicron variants infection. We found Omicron resisted to neutralizing antibody targeting receptor binding domain (RBD) of wildtype SARS-CoV-2. Omicron could hardly be neutralized by sera of Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) convalescents infected with the Delta variant. Through mass spectrometry on MHC-bound peptidomes, we found that the spike protein of the Omicron variants could generate additional CD8 + T cell epitopes, compared with Delta. These epitopes could induce robust CD8 + T cell responses. Moreover, we found booster vaccination increased the cross-memory CD8 + T cell responses against Omicron. Metabolic regulome analysis of Omicron-specific T cell showed a metabolic profile that promoted the response of memory T cells. Consistently, a greater fraction of memory CD8 + T cells existed in Omicron stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). In addition, CD147 was also a receptor for the Omicron variants, and CD147 antibody inhibited infection of Omicron. CD147-mediated Omicron infection in a human CD147 transgenic mouse model induced exudative alveolar pneumonia. Taken together, our data suggested that vaccination booster and receptor blocking antibody are two effective strategies against Omicron.
PXD022319	36681682	Wdr4 promotes cerebellar development and locomotion through Arhgap17-mediated Rac1 activation. 	WDR4 conditional knockout in mouse cerebellar granule progenitors for proteome analysis	Cerebellum, TMT, WDR4, granule progenitors	Patients with mutations of WDR4, a substrate adaptor of the CUL4 E3 ligase complex, develop cerebellar atrophy and gait phenotypes. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unexplored. Here, we identify a crucial role of Wdr4 in cerebellar development. Wdr4 deficiency in granule neuron progenitors (GNPs) not only reduces foliation and the sizes of external and internal granular layers but also compromises Purkinje neuron organization and the size of the molecular layer, leading to locomotion defects. Mechanistically, Wdr4 supports the proliferation of GNPs by preventing their cell cycle exit. This effect is mediated by Wdr4-induced ubiquitination and degradation of Arhgap17, thereby activating Rac1 to facilitate cell cycle progression. Disease-associated Wdr4 variants, however, cannot provide GNP cell cycle maintenance. Our study identifies Wdr4 as a previously unappreciated participant in cerebellar development and locomotion, providing potential insights into treatment strategies for diseases with WDR4 mutations, such as primordial dwarfism and Galloway-Mowat syndrome.
PXD031113	36681760	Single-cell transcriptomics reveal extracellular vesicles secretion with a cardiomyocyte proteostasis signature during pathological remodeling. 	Pathological heart remodeling promotes unconventional secretion of protein quality control components via exosomes in cardiomyocytes	cardiomyocytes, data-independent acquisition, exosomes, remodeling	Aberrant Wnt activation has been reported in failing cardiomyocytes. Here we present single cell transcriptome profiling of hearts with inducible cardiomyocyte-specific Wnt activation (beta-cat(Deltaex3)) as well as with compensatory and failing hypertrophic remodeling. We show that functional enrichment analysis points to an involvement of extracellular vesicles (EVs) related processes in hearts of beta-cat(Deltaex3) mice. A proteomic analysis of in vivo cardiac derived EVs from beta-cat(Deltaex3) hearts has identified differentially enriched proteins involving 20 S proteasome constitutes, protein quality control (PQC), chaperones and associated cardiac proteins including alpha-Crystallin B (CRYAB) and sarcomeric components. The hypertrophic model confirms that cardiomyocytes reacted with an acute early transcriptional upregulation of exosome biogenesis processes and chaperones transcripts including CRYAB, which is ameliorated in advanced remodeling. Finally, human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC)-derived cardiomyocytes subjected to pharmacological Wnt activation recapitulated the increased expression of exosomal markers, CRYAB accumulation and increased PQC signaling. These findings reveal that secretion of EVs with a proteostasis signature contributes to early patho-physiological adaptation of cardiomyocytes, which may serve as a read-out of disease progression and can be used for monitoring cellular remodeling in vivo with a possible diagnostic and prognostic role in the future.
PXD037841	36682495	Analysis of mammalian circadian clock protein complexes over a circadian cycle. 	Cry1 and Per2 protein complex in mouse liver	Cry1, IP-MS/MS, Per2, mouse liver	Circadian rhythmicity is maintained by a set of core clock proteins including the transcriptional activators CLOCK and BMAL1, and the repressors PER (PER1, PER2, and PER3), CRY (CRY1 and CRY2), and CK1delta. In mice, peak expression of the repressors in the early morning reduces CLOCK- and BMAL1-mediated transcription/translation of the repressors themselves. By late afternoon the repressors are largely depleted by degradation, and thereby their expression is reactivated in a cycle repeated every 24 h. Studies have characterized a variety of possible protein interactions and complexes associated with the function of this transcription-translation feedback loop. Our prior investigation suggested there were two circadian complexes responsible for rhythmicity, one containing CLOCK-BMAL and the other containing PER2, CRY1, and CK1delta. In this investigation, we acquired data from glycerol gradient centrifugation and gel filtration chromatography of mouse liver extracts obtained at different circadian times to further characterize circadian complexes. In addition, anti-PER2 and anti-CRY1 immunoprecipitates obtained from the same extracts were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to identify components of circadian complexes. Our results confirm the presence of discrete CLOCK-BMAL1 and PER-CRY-CK1delta complexes at the different circadian time points, provide masses of 255 and 707 kDa, respectively, for these complexes, and indicate that these complexes are composed principally of the core circadian proteins.
PXD030005	36682716	Synergistic Targeting of DNA-PK and KIT Signaling Pathways in KIT Mutant Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	Phosphoproteomic profiling of D816V-KIT cells	AML, KIT, Phosphoproteomics	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common and aggressive form of acute leukemia, with a 5-year survival rate of just 24%. Over a third of all AML patients harbor activating mutations in kinases, such as the receptor tyrosine kinases FLT3 (receptor-type tyrosine-protein kinase FLT3) and KIT (mast/stem cell growth factor receptor kit). FLT3 and KIT mutations are associated with poor clinical outcomes and lower remission rates in response to standard-of-care chemotherapy. We have recently identified that the core kinase of the non-homologous end joining DNA repair pathway, DNA-PK (DNA-dependent protein kinase), is activated downstream of FLT3; and targeting DNA-PK sensitized FLT3-mutant AML cells to standard-of-care therapies. Herein, we investigated DNA-PK as a possible therapeutic vulnerability in KIT mutant AML, using isogenic FDC-P1 mouse myeloid progenitor cell lines transduced with oncogenic mutant KIT (V560G and D816V) or vector control. Targeted quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling identified phosphorylation of DNA-PK in the T2599/T2605/S2608/S2610 cluster in KIT mutant cells, indicative of DNA-PK activation. Accordingly, proliferation assays revealed that KIT mutant FDC-P1 cells were more sensitive to the DNA-PK inhibitors M3814 or NU7441, compared with empty vector controls. DNA-PK inhibition combined with inhibition of KIT signaling using the kinase inhibitors dasatinib or ibrutinib, or the protein phosphatase 2A activators FTY720 or AAL(S), led to synergistic cell death. Global phosphoproteomic analysis of KIT-D816V cells revealed that dasatinib and M3814 single-agent treatments inhibited extracellular signal-regulated kinase and AKT (RAC-alpha serine/threonine-protein kinase)/MTOR (serine/threonine-protein kinase mTOR) activity, with greater inhibition of both pathways when used in combination. Combined dasatinib and M3814 treatment also synergistically inhibited phosphorylation of the transcriptional regulators MYC and MYB. This study provides insight into the oncogenic pathways regulated by DNA-PK beyond its canonical role in DNA repair and demonstrates that DNA-PK is a promising therapeutic target for KIT mutant cancers.
PXD029103	36683048	Single-nucleus RNA sequencing and deep tissue proteomics reveal distinct tumour microenvironment in stage-I and II cervical cancer. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of tumour tissues isolated from early and late stage human cervical cancer patients	cervical cancer, iTRAQ8plex	BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer (CC) is the 3(rd) most common cancer in women and the 4(th) leading cause of deaths in gynaecological malignancies, yet the exact progression of CC is inconclusive, mainly due to the high complexity of the changing tumour microenvironment (TME) at different stages of tumorigenesis. Importantly, a detailed comparative single-nucleus transcriptomic analysis of tumour microenvironment (TME) of CC patients at different stages is lacking. METHODS: In this study, a total of 42,928 and 29,200 nuclei isolated from the tumour tissues of stage-I and II CC patients and subjected to single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) analysis. The cell heterogeneity and functions were comparatively investigated using bioinformatic tools. In addition, label-free quantitative mass spectrometry based proteomic analysis was carried out. The proteome profiles of stage-I and II CC patients were compared, and an integrative analysis with the snRNA-seq was performed. RESULTS: Compared with the stage-I CC (CCI) patients, the immune response relevant signalling pathways were largely suppressed in various immune cells of the stage-II CC (CCII) patients, yet the signalling associated with cell and tissue development was enriched, as well as metabolism for energy production suggested by the upregulation of genes associated with mitochondria. This was consistent with the quantitative proteomic analysis that showed the dominance of proteins promoting cell growth and intercellular matrix development in the TME of CCII group. The interferon-alpha and gamma responses appeared the most activated pathways in many cell populations of the CCI patients. Several collagens, such as COL12A1, COL5A1, COL4A1 and COL4A2, were found significantly upregulated in the CCII group, suggesting their roles in diagnosing CC progression. A novel transcript AC244205.1 was detected as the most upregulated gene in CCII patients, and its possible mechanistic role in CC may be investigated further. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides important resources for decoding the progression of CC and set the foundation for developing novel approaches for diagnosing CC and tackling the immunosuppressive TME.
PXD036127	36683050	Mesothelioma-associated fibroblasts enhance proliferation and migration of pleural mesothelioma cells via c-Met/PI3K and WNT signaling but do not protect against cisplatin. 	Mesothelioma-associated fibroblasts enhance proliferation and migration of malignant pleural mesothelioma cells via Met/PI3K and WNT signaling but do not protect against cisplatin_Proteins from nuclear extracts	Cisplatin, Human malignant pleural mesothelioma-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), high-resolution timsTOF-based proteomics analyses	BACKGROUND: Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is an aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis. Unlike many other cancers, PM is mostly characterized by inactivation of tumor suppressor genes. Its highly malignant nature in absence of tumor driving oncogene mutations indicates an extrinsic supply of stimulating signals by cells of the tumor microenvironment (TME). Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are an abundant cell type of the TME and have been shown to drive the progression of several malignancies. The aim of the current study was to isolate and characterize patient-derived mesothelioma-associated fibroblasts (Meso-CAFs), and evaluate their impact on PM cells. METHODS: Meso-CAFs were isolated from surgical specimens of PM patients and analyzed by array comparative genomic hybridization, next generation sequencing, transcriptomics and proteomics. Human PM cell lines were retrovirally transduced with GFP. The impact of Meso-CAFs on tumor cell growth, migration, as well as the response to small molecule inhibitors, cisplatin and pemetrexed treatment was investigated in 2D and 3D co-culture models by videomicroscopy and automated image analysis. RESULTS: Meso-CAFs show a normal diploid genotype without gene copy number aberrations typical for PM cells. They express CAF markers and lack PM marker expression. Their proteome and secretome profiles clearly differ from normal lung fibroblasts with particularly strong differences in actively secreted proteins. The presence of Meso-CAFs in co-culture resulted in significantly increased proliferation and migration of PM cells. A similar effect on PM cell growth and migration was induced by Meso-CAF-conditioned medium. Inhibition of c-Met with crizotinib, PI3K with LY-2940002 or WNT signaling with WNT-C59 significantly impaired the Meso-CAF-mediated growth stimulation of PM cells in co-culture at concentrations not affecting the PM cells alone. Meso-CAFs did not provide protection of PM cells against cisplatin but showed significant protection against the EGFR inhibitor erlotinib. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides the first characterization of human patient-derived Meso-CAFs and demonstrates a strong impact of Meso-CAFs on PM cell growth and migration, two key characteristics of PM aggressiveness, indicating a major role of Meso-CAFs in driving PM progression. Moreover, we identify signaling pathways required for Meso-CAF-mediated growth stimulation. These data could be relevant for novel therapeutic strategies against PM.
PXD037286	36683405	Characterization of the preferred cation cofactors of chloroplast protein kinases in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Surveying the chloroplast protein kinase preferences for cation cofactors in Arabidopsis thaliana	chloroplast, maganese	Chloroplasts sense a variety of stimuli triggering several acclimation responses. One prominent response is the mechanism of state transitions, which enables rapid adaption to changes in illumination. Here, we investigated the link between divalent cations (calcium, magnesium, and manganese) and protein kinase activity in Arabidopsis chloroplasts. Our results show that manganese ions are the strongest activator of kinase activity in chloroplasts followed by magnesium ions, whereas calcium ions are not able to induce kinase activity. Additionally, the phosphorylation of specific protein bands is strongly reduced in chloroplasts of a cmt1 mutant, which is impaired in manganese import into chloroplasts, as compared to the wild-type. These findings provide insights for the future characterization of chloroplast protein kinase activity and potential target proteins.
PXD031868	36684425	miR-23a/b clusters are not essential for the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis in mouse aging and post-traumatic models. 	Mouse Articular chondrocyte LC-MSMS of wild-type, miR-26a -/- and cartilage-specific miR-23ab clusters knockout mice	Chondrocyte, miR-23 cluster, miR-26a	Osteoarthritis (OA), the most prevalent aging-related joint disease, is characterized by insufficient extracellular matrix synthesis and articular cartilage degradation and is caused by various risk factors including aging and traumatic injury. Most microRNAs (miRNAs) have been associated with pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA) using in vitro models. However, the role of many miRNAs in skeletal development and OA pathogenesis is uncharacterized in vivo using genetically modified mice. Here, we focused on miR-23-27-24 clusters. There are two paralogous miR-23-27-24 clusters: miR-23a-27a-24-2 (miR-23a cluster) and miR-23b-27b-24-1 (miR-23b cluster). Each miR-23a/b, miR-24, and miR-27a/b is thought to function coordinately and complementary to each other, and the role of each miR-23a/b, miR-24, and miR-27a/b in OA pathogenesis is still controversial. MiR-23a/b clusters are highly expressed in chondrocytes and the present study examined their role in OA. We analyzed miRNA expression in chondrocytes and investigated cartilage-specific miR-23a/b clusters knockout (Col2a1-Cre; miR-23a/bflox/flox: Cart-miR-23clus KO) mice and global miR-23a/b clusters knockout (CAG-Cre; miR-23a/bflox/flox: Glob-miR-23clus KO) mice. Knees of Cart- and Glob-miR-23a/b clusters KO mice were evaluated by histological grading systems for knee joint tissues using aging model (12 and/or 18 month-old) and surgically-induced OA model. miR-23a/b clusters were among the most highly expressed miRNAs in chondrocytes. Skeletal development of Cart- and Glob-miR-23clus KO mice was grossly normal although Glob-miR-23clus KO had reduced body weight, adipose tissue and bone density. In the aging model and surgically-induced OA model, Cart- and Glob-miR-23clus KO mice exhibited mild OA-like changes such as proteoglycan loss and cartilage fibrillation. However, the histological scores were not significantly different in terms of the severity of OA in Cart- and Glob-miR-23clus KO mice compared with control mice. Together, miR-23a/b clusters, composed of miR-23a/b, miR-24, miR-27a/b do not significantly contribute to OA pathogenesis.
PXD037826	36684658	Effects of RFRP-3 on an ovariectomized estrogen-primed rat model and HEC-1A human endometrial carcinoma cells. 	Proteome of uterine cavity fluid in female rattus	gonadotropin inhibitory hormone, uterine fluid,proteome	The hypothalamic peptide gonadotropin inhibitory hormone (GnIH) is a relatively novel hypothalamic neuropeptide, identified in 2000. It can influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and reproductive function through various neuroendocrine systems. The present study aimed to explore the effects and potential underlying molecular mechanism of RFamide-related peptide-3 (RFRP-3) injection on the uterine fluid protein profile of ovariectomized estrogen-primed (OEP) rats using proteomics. In addition, the possible effects of RFRP-3 on the viability and apoptosis of the human endometrial cancer cell line HEC-1A and associated molecular mechanism were investigated. The OEP rat model was established through injection with GnIH/RFRP-3 through the lateral ventricle. At 6 h after injection, the protein components of uterine fluid of rats in the experimental and control groups were analyzed using liquid chromatography (LC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were analyzed using the Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) were investigated using the STRING database. PPI networks were then established before hub proteins were selected using OmicsBean software. The expression of one of the hub proteins, Kras, was then detected using western blot analysis. Cell Counting Kit-8, Annexin V-FITC/PI, reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blotting were also performed to analyze cell viability and apoptosis. In total, 417 DEPs were obtained using LC-MS/MS, including 279 upregulated and 138 downregulated proteins. GO analysis revealed that the majority of the DEPs were secretory proteins. According to KEGG enrichment analysis, the DEPs found were generally involved in tumor-associated pathways. In particular, five hub proteins, namely G protein subunit alpha (Gna)13, Gnaq, Gnai3, Kras and MMP9, were obtained following PPI network analysis. Western blot analysis showed that expression of the hub protein Kras was downregulated following treatment with 10,000 ng/ml RFRP-3. RFRP-3 treatment (10,000 ng/ml) also suppressed HEC-1A cell viability, induced apoptosis, downregulated Bcl-2 and upregulated Bax protein expression, compared with those in the control group. In addition, compared with those in the control group, RFRP-3 significantly reduced the mRNA expression levels of PI3K, AKT and mTOR, while upregulating those of LC3-II. Compared with those in the control group, RFRP-3 significantly decreased the protein expression levels of PI3K, AKT, mTOR and p62, in addition to decreasing AKT phosphorylation. By contrast, RFRP-3 significantly increased the LC3-II/I ratio and G protein-coupled receptor 147 (GPR147) protein expression. In conclusion, the present data suggest that RFRP-3 can alter the protein expression profile of the uterine fluid of OEP rats by upregulating MMP9 expression whilst downregulating that of key hub proteins Gna13, GnaQ, Gnai3 and Kras. Furthermore, RFRP-3 can inhibit HEC-1A cell viability while promoting apoptosis. The underlying molecular mechanism may involve activation of GPR147 receptor by the direct binding of RFRP-3, which further downregulates the hub protein Kras to switch on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. This subsequently reduces the Bcl-2 expression and promotes Bax expression to induce autophagy.
PXD037827	36685959	Identification of an unrecognized circRNA associated with development of renal fibrosis. 	IdentificationofanunrecognizedcircRNAassociatedwiththedevelopmentofrenalfibrosis	Fibronectin, HK-2, PAI-1, circRNA_0002158, renal fibrosis	Backgroud: Renal fibrosis is the common characteristic of chronic kidney disease. Circular RNA plays an essential role in the occurrence and development of Renal fibrosis, but its regulative mechanism remains elusive. Methods: The animal and cell model of Renal fibrosis was established, and RNA-sequencing and real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) experiments were implemented. Subsequently, experiments for detecting apoptosis and proliferation of cell, were carried out, and the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification proteomics analyses were performed accordingly. Results: It was found that a newly discovered Circular RNA (circRNA_0002158), is highly expressed in kidneys or cells with fibrosis, implying that this Circular RNA might be associated with the occurrence and development of Renal fibrosis. Subsequently, the overexpression and knockdown of circRNA_0002158 were conducted in the human kidney epithelial cell line (HK-2) cells, and the results indicated that the circRNA_0002158 could inhibit apoptosis, and promote proliferation of cells. The kidney injury-related factors, including Fibronectin and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), were decreased in HK-2 cells with overexpression of circRNA_0002158, while the results were reversed in cells with knockdown of circRNA_0002158. Finally, to explore the regulative mechanism of circRNA_0002158, the iTRAQ proteomics analyses were implemented for the cell samples with OE of circRNA_0002158 and its control, it showed that multiple genes and functional pathways were associated with the occurrence and development of Renal fibrosis. Conclusion: CircRNA_0002158 is associated with regulating Renal fibrosis, and may contribute to ameliorating the progression of Renal fibrosis in the future.
PXD029053	36686772	Redox integration of signaling and metabolism in a head and neck cancer model of radiation resistance using COSM(RO). 	Redox proteomics analysis of head and neck cancer cell model of radiation resistance	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), COSMro, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), head and neck cancer cell lines, redox proteomics	Redox metabolism is increasingly investigated in cancer as driving regulator of tumor progression, response to therapies and long-term patients' quality of life. Well-established cancer therapies, such as radiotherapy, either directly impact redox metabolism or have redox-dependent mechanisms of action defining their clinical efficacy. However, the ability to integrate redox information across signaling and metabolic networks to facilitate discovery and broader investigation of redox-regulated pathways in cancer remains a key unmet need limiting the advancement of new cancer therapies. To overcome this challenge, we developed a new constraint-based computational method (COSM(ro)) and applied it to a Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer (HNSCC) model of radiation resistance. This novel integrative approach identified enhanced capacity for H2S production in radiation resistant cells and extracted a key relationship between intracellular redox state and cholesterol metabolism; experimental validation of this relationship highlights the importance of redox state in cellular metabolism and response to radiation.
PXD033554	36689653	Antidepressants can induce mutation and enhance persistence toward multiple antibiotics. 	Proteomic analysis of E. coli K-12 MG1655 with the treatment of antidepressants	Antibiotic resistance, antidepressants, efflux pump, evolution, fitness cost, multidrug resistance, persistence, reactive oxygen species (ROS), toxin-antitoxin system	Antibiotic resistance is an urgent threat to global health. Antidepressants are consumed in large quantities, with a similar pharmaceutical market share (4.8%) to antibiotics (5%). While antibiotics are acknowledged as the major driver of increasing antibiotic resistance, little attention is paid to the contribution of antidepressants in this process. Here, we demonstrate that antidepressants at clinically relevant concentrations induce resistance to multiple antibiotics, even following short periods of exposure. Antibiotic persistence was also enhanced. Phenotypic and genotypic analyses revealed the enhanced production of reactive oxygen species following exposure to antidepressants was directly associated with increased resistance. An enhanced stress signature response and stimulation of efflux pump expression were also associated with increased resistance and persistence. Mathematical modeling also predicted that antidepressants would accelerate the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, and persister cells would help to maintain the resistance. Overall, our findings highlight the antibiotic resistance risk caused by antidepressants.
PXD037497	36689659	Loss of the E3 ubiquitin ligases UBR-5 or HECD-1 restores Caenorhabditis elegans development in the absence of SWI/SNF function. 	Loss of the E3 ubiquitin ligases UBR-5 or HECD-1 restores Caenorhabditis elegans development in the absence of SWI/SNF function	C. elegans, HECD-1, HECTD1, SWI/SNF, UBR-5, UBR5, development, ubiquitination	SWItch/sucrose non-fermenting (SWI/SNF) complexes are a family of chromatin remodelers that are conserved across eukaryotes. Mutations in subunits of SWI/SNF cause a multitude of different developmental disorders in humans, most of which have no current treatment options. Here, we identify an alanine-to-valine-causing mutation in the SWI/SNF subunit snfc-5 (SMARCB1 in humans) that prevents embryonic lethality in Caenorhabditis elegans nematodes harboring a loss-of-function mutation in the SWI/SNF subunit swsn-1 (SMARCC1/2 in humans). Furthermore, we found that the combination of this specific mutation in snfc-5 and a loss-of-function mutation in either of the E3 ubiquitin ligases ubr-5 (UBR5 in humans) or hecd-1 (HECTD1 in humans) can restore development to adulthood in swsn-1 loss-of-function mutants that otherwise die as embryos. Using these mutant models, we established a set of 335 genes that are dysregulated in SWI/SNF mutants that arrest their development embryonically but exhibit near wild-type levels of expression in the presence of suppressor mutations that prevent embryonic lethality, suggesting that SWI/SNF promotes development by regulating some subset of these 335 genes. In addition, we show that SWI/SNF protein levels are reduced in swsn-1; snfc-5 double mutants and partly restored to wild-type levels in swsn-1; snfc-5; ubr-5 triple mutants, consistent with a model in which UBR-5 regulates SWI/SNF levels by tagging the complex for proteasomal degradation. Our findings establish a link between two E3 ubiquitin ligases and SWI/SNF function and suggest that UBR5 and HECTD1 could be potential therapeutic targets for the many developmental disorders caused by missense mutations in SWI/SNF subunits.
PXD033966	36690276	Transportin 1 is a major nuclear import receptor of the nitric oxide synthase interacting protein. 	Transportin 1 is a major nuclear import receptor of the nitric oxide synthase interacting protein	Transportin, nuclear import	The nitric oxide synthase interacting protein (NOSIP), an E3-ubiquitin ligase, is involved in various processes like neuronal development, craniofacial development, granulopoiesis, mitogenic signaling, apoptosis, and cell proliferation. The best-characterized function of NOSIP is the regulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase activity by translocating the membrane-bound enzyme to the cytoskeleton, specifically in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. For this, NOSIP itself has to be translocated from its prominent localization, the nucleus, to the cytoplasm. Nuclear import of NOSIP was suggested to be mediated by the canonical transport receptors importin alpha/beta. Recently, we found NOSIP in a proteomic screen as a potential importin 13 cargo. Here, we describe the nuclear shuttling characteristics of NOSIP in living cells and in vitro and show that it does not interact directly with importin alpha. Instead, it formed stable complexes with several importins (-beta, -7, -beta/7, -13, and transportin 1) and was also imported into the nucleus in digitonin-permeabilized cells by these factors. In living HeLa cells, transportin 1 seems to be the major nuclear import receptor for NOSIP. A detailed analysis of the NOSIP-transportin 1 interaction revealed a high affinity and an unusual binding mode, involving the N-terminal half of transportin 1. In contrast to nuclear import, nuclear export of NOSIP seems to occur mostly by passive diffusion. Thus, our results uncover additional layers in the larger process of endothelial nitric oxide synthase regulation.
PXD038237	36690626	The NFIB/CARM1 partnership is a driver in preclinical models of small cell lung cancer. 	The NFIB/CARM1 Partnership is a Therapeutic Target for Small Cell Lung Cancer	CARM1, NFIB, SCLC, TRIM29, arginine methylation	The coactivator associated arginine methyltransferase (CARM1) promotes transcription, as its name implies. It does so by modifying histones and chromatin bound proteins. We identified nuclear factor I B (NFIB) as a CARM1 substrate and show that this transcription factor utilizes CARM1 as a coactivator. Biochemical studies reveal that tripartite motif 29 (TRIM29) is an effector molecule for methylated NFIB. Importantly, NFIB harbors both oncogenic and metastatic activities, and is often overexpressed in small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Here, we explore the possibility that CARM1 methylation of NFIB is important for its transforming activity. Using a SCLC mouse model, we show that both CARM1 and the CARM1 methylation site on NFIB are critical for the rapid onset of SCLC. Furthermore, CARM1 and methylated NFIB are responsible for maintaining similar open chromatin states in tumors. Together, these findings suggest that CARM1 might be a therapeutic target for SCLC.
PXD030497	36690642	RSL24D1 sustains steady-state ribosome biogenesis and pluripotency translational programs in embryonic stem cells. 	MS-based quantitative proteomic analysis of embryonic stem cells with normal and reduced expression of Rsl24d1.	Embryonic stem cell, nanoLC-MS/MS, pluripotency, ribosome biogenesis, translational program	Embryonic stem cell (ESC) fate decisions are regulated by a complex circuitry that coordinates gene expression at multiple levels from chromatin to mRNA processing. Recently, ribosome biogenesis and translation have emerged as key pathways that efficiently control stem cell homeostasis, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we identified RSL24D1 as highly expressed in both mouse and human pluripotent stem cells. RSL24D1 is associated with nuclear pre-ribosomes and is required for the biogenesis of 60S subunits in mouse ESCs. Interestingly, RSL24D1 depletion significantly impairs global translation, particularly of key pluripotency factors and of components from the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2). While having a moderate impact on differentiation, RSL24D1 depletion significantly alters ESC self-renewal and lineage commitment choices. Altogether, these results demonstrate that RSL24D1-dependant ribosome biogenesis is both required to sustain the expression of pluripotent transcriptional programs and to silence PRC2-regulated developmental programs, which concertedly dictate ESC homeostasis.
PXD033813	36690657	Genomic analysis of an ultrasmall freshwater green alga, Medakamo hakoo. 	Proteome analysis of newly identified green alga M. hakoo	M. hakoo	Ultrasmall algae have attracted the attention of biologists investigating the basic mechanisms underlying living systems. Their potential as effective organisms for producing useful substances is also of interest in bioindustry. Although genomic information is indispensable for elucidating metabolism and promoting molecular breeding, many ultrasmall algae remain genetically uncharacterized. Here, we present the nuclear genome sequence of an ultrasmall green alga of freshwater habitats, Medakamo hakoo. Evolutionary analyses suggest that this species belongs to a new genus within the class Trebouxiophyceae. Sequencing analyses revealed that its genome, comprising 15.8 Mbp and 7629 genes, is among the smallest known genomes in the Viridiplantae. Its genome has relatively few genes associated with genetic information processing, basal transcription factors, and RNA transport. Comparative analyses revealed that 1263 orthogroups were shared among 15 ultrasmall algae from distinct phylogenetic lineages. The shared gene sets will enable identification of genes essential for algal metabolism and cellular functions.
PXD037994	36690898	Post-translational modifications of soluble alpha-synuclein regulate the amplification of pathological alpha-synuclein. 	Identification of post-translational modifications on soluble alpha-Synuclein purified from various alpha-Synucleinopathies by LC-MSMS	Brain, alpha-Synucleinopathies, post-translational modification, soluble a-Synuclein	Cell-to-cell transmission and subsequent amplification of pathological proteins promote neurodegenerative disease progression. Most research on this has focused on pathological protein seeds, but how their normal counterparts, which are converted to pathological forms during transmission, regulate transmission is less understood. Here we show in cultured cells that phosphorylation of soluble, nonpathological alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) at previously identified sites dramatically affects the amplification of pathological alpha-Syn, which underlies Parkinson's disease and other alpha-synucleinopathies, in a conformation- and phosphorylation site-specific manner. We performed LC-MS/MS analyses on soluble alpha-Syn purified from Parkinson's disease and other alpha-synucleinopathies, identifying many new alpha-Syn post-translational modifications (PTMs). In addition to phosphorylation, acetylation of soluble alpha-Syn also modified pathological alpha-Syn transmission in a site- and conformation-specific manner. Moreover, phosphorylation of soluble alpha-Syn could modulate the seeding properties of pathological alpha-Syn. Our study represents the first systematic analysis how of soluble alpha-Syn PTMs affect the spreading and amplification of pathological alpha-Syn, which may affect disease progression.
PXD036434	36691026	Panomics reveals patient individuality as the major driver of colorectal cancer progression. 	Panomics reveals patient individuality as the major driver of colorectal cancer progression	Colorectal cancer, multi-OMICS, patient individuality, tumor heterogeneity	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most prevalent cancers, with over one million new cases per year. Overall, prognosis of CRC largely depends on the disease stage and metastatic status. As precision oncology for patients with CRC continues to improve, this study aimed to integrate genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses to identify significant differences in expression during CRC progression using a unique set of paired patient samples while considering tumour heterogeneity. METHODS: We analysed fresh-frozen tissue samples prepared under strict cryogenic conditions of matched healthy colon mucosa, colorectal carcinoma, and liver metastasis from the same patients. Somatic mutations of known cancer-related genes were analysed using Illumina's TruSeq Amplicon Cancer Panel; the transcriptome was assessed comprehensively using Clariom D microarrays. The global proteome was evaluated by liquid chromatography-coupled mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and validated by two-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis. Subsequent unsupervised principal component clustering, statistical comparisons, and gene set enrichment analyses were calculated based on differential expression results. RESULTS: Although panomics revealed low RNA and protein expression of CA1, CLCA1, MATN2, AHCYL2, and FCGBP in malignant tissues compared to healthy colon mucosa, no differentially expressed RNA or protein targets were detected between tumour and metastatic tissues. Subsequent intra-patient comparisons revealed highly specific expression differences (e.g., SRSF3, OLFM4, and CEACAM5) associated with patient-specific transcriptomes and proteomes. CONCLUSION: Our research results highlight the importance of inter- and intra-tumour heterogeneity as well as individual, patient-paired evaluations for clinical studies. In addition to changes among groups reflecting CRC progression, we identified significant expression differences between normal colon mucosa, primary tumour, and liver metastasis samples from individuals, which might accelerate implementation of precision oncology in the future.
PXD035074	36691616	A wide foodomics approach coupled with metagenomics elucidates the environmental signature of potatoes. 	A holistic foodomics approach coupled with metagenomics elucidates the environmental signature of PDO/PGI potatoes	PDO/PGI, authentication, epigenomics, foodomics, metagenomics, potatoes	The term "terroir" has been widely employed to link differential geographic phenotypes with sensorial signatures of agricultural food products, influenced by agricultural practices, soil type, and climate. Nowadays, the geographical indications labeling has been developed to safeguard the quality of plant-derived food that is linked to a certain terroir and is generally considered as an indication of superior organoleptic properties. As the dynamics of agroecosystems are highly intricate, consisting of tangled networks of interactions between plants, microorganisms, and the surrounding environment, the recognition of the key molecular components of terroir fingerprinting remains a great challenge to protect both the origin and the safety of food commodities. Furthermore, the contribution of microbiome as a potential driver of the terroir signature has been underestimated. Herein, we present a first comprehensive view of the multi-omic landscape related to transcriptome, proteome, epigenome, and metagenome of the popular Protected Geographical Indication potatoes of Naxos.
PXD037760	36691963	Suppression of citrus canker disease mediated by flagellin perception. 	Identification of flagellin proteins from the citrus canker pathogens Xanthomonas citri (strain 306) and Xanthomonas aurantifolii pathotype C (strain ICMP 8435)	Flagellin C, FliC, Xanthomonas citri (strain 306) and Xanthomonas aurantifolii pathotype C (strain ICMP 8435)	Citrus cancer, caused by strains of Xanthomonas citri (Xc) and Xanthomonas aurantifolii (Xa), is one of the most economically important citrus diseases. Although our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying citrus canker development has advanced remarkably in recent years, exactly how citrus plants fight against these pathogens remains largely unclear. Using a Xa pathotype C strain that infects Mexican lime only and sweet oranges as a pathosystem to study the immune response triggered by this bacterium in these hosts, we herein report that the Xa flagellin C protein (XaFliC) acts as a potent defence elicitor in sweet oranges. Just as Xa blocked canker formation when coinfiltrated with Xc in sweet orange leaves, two polymorphic XaFliC peptides designated flgIII-20 and flgIII-27, not related to flg22 or flgII-28 but found in many Xanthomonas species, were sufficient to protect sweet orange plants from Xc infection. Accordingly, ectopic expression of XaFliC in a Xc FliC-defective mutant completely abolished the ability of this mutant to grow and cause canker in sweet orange but not Mexican lime plants. Because XaFliC and flgIII-27 also specifically induced the expression of several defence-related genes, our data suggest that XaFliC acts as a main immune response determinant in sweet orange plants.
PXD034993	36692708	A Homozygous PPP1R21 Splice Variant Associated with Severe Developmental Delay, Absence of Speech, and Muscle Weakness Leads to Activated Proteasome Function. 	A homozygous PPP1R21 splice variant associated with severe developmental delay, absence of speech and muscle weakness leads to activated proteasome function	CHKB, Choline/ethanolamine kinase, Muscular dystrophy, VAPB, congenital, megaconial type (MDCMC)	PPP1R21 acts as a co-factor for protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), an important serine/threonine phosphatase known to be essential for cell division, control of glycogen metabolism, protein synthesis, and muscle contractility. Bi-allelic pathogenic variants in PPP1R21 were linked to a neurodevelopmental disorder with hypotonia, facial dysmorphism, and brain abnormalities (NEDHFBA) with pediatric onset. Functional studies unraveled impaired vesicular transport as being part of PPP1R21-related pathomechanism. To decipher further the pathophysiological processes leading to the clinical manifestation of NEDHFBA, we investigated the proteomic signature of fibroblasts derived from the first NEDHFBA patient harboring a splice-site mutation in PPP1R21 and presenting with a milder phenotype. Proteomic findings and further functional studies demonstrate a profound activation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system with presence of protein aggregates and impact on cellular fitness and moreover suggest a cross-link between activation of the proteolytic system and cytoskeletal architecture (including filopodia) as exemplified on paradigmatic proteins including actin, thus extending the pathophysiological spectrum of the disease. In addition, the proteomic signature of PPP1R21-mutant fibroblasts displayed a dysregulation of a variety of proteins of neurological relevance. This includes increase proteins which might act toward antagonization of cellular stress burden in terms of pro-survival, a molecular finding which might accord with the presentation of a milder phenotype of our NEDHFBA patient.
PXD035819	36693698	Multiple phosphorylation of the Cdc48/p97 cofactor protein Shp1/p47 occurs upon cell stress in budding yeast. 	Phospho-regulation of Cdc48/p97 cofactor protein Shp1/p47 in budding yeast	TORC1, Ubx domain, Ubx1, phosphorylation, protein degradation, proteostasis, stress	The homohexameric p97 complex, composed of Cdc48 subunits in yeast, is a crucial component of protein quality control pathways including ER-associated degradation. The complex acts to segregate protein complexes in an ATP-dependent manner, requiring the engagement of cofactor proteins that determine substrate specificity. The function of different Cdc48 cofactors and how they are regulated remains relatively poorly understood. In this study, we assess the phosphorylation of Cdc48 adaptor proteins, revealing a unique and distinctive phosphorylation pattern of Shp1/p47 that changed in response to TORC1 inhibition. Site-directed mutagenesis confirmed that this pattern corresponded to phosphorylation at residues S108 and S315 of Shp1, with the double-phosphorylated form becoming predominant upon TORC1 inhibition, ER-stress, and oxidative stress. Finally, we assessed candidate kinases and phosphatases responsible for Shp1 phosphorylation and identified two regulators. We found that cells lacking the kinase Mpk1/Slt2 show reduced Shp1 phosphorylation, whereas impaired PP1 phosphatase catalytic subunit (Glc7) activity resulted in increased Shp1 phosphorylation. Overall, these findings identify a phosphoregulation of Shp1 at multiple sites by Mpk1 kinase and PP1 phosphatase upon various stresses.
PXD039211	36694998	Metalloprotease-mediated cleavage of CD95 ligand. 	Metalloprotease-mediated cleavage of CD95 Ligand: QTOF Xevo  XS data	CD95L, Metalloprotease, proteolytic cleavage	CD95 is a member of the TNF receptor superfamily that is ubiquitously expressed in healthy and pathological tissues. Stimulation of CD95 by its physiological ligand CD95L induces its oligomerization leading in turn to the transduction of either apoptotic or nonapoptotic signals. CD95L can exist as both membrane-anchored and soluble forms (sCD95L), the latter resulting from the proteolytic cleavage of the former. Candidate proteases able to achieve CD95L cleavage were identified as matrix metalloproteases (MMP) due to their demonstrated ability to cleave other TNF superfamily ligands. The main goal of this study was to systematically identify the MMP family members capable of cleaving CD95L and subsequently determine the corresponding cleavage sites. By using different orthogonal biochemical approaches and combining them with molecular modelling, we confirmed data from the literature regarding CD95L cleavage by MMP-3 and MMP-7. Moreover, we found that MMP-2 and MMP-12 can cleave CD95L and characterized their resulting cleavage sites. This study provides a systematic approach to analyse the cleavage of CD95L, which until now had only been poorly described.
PXD036813	36695755	The Deuterium Calculator: An Open-Source Tool for Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry Analysis. 	The Deuterium Calculator HDX-MS Data Analysis	HDX data analysis software, HDX-MS, Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, subzero temperature UPLC	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) is a powerful protein footprinting technique to study protein dynamics and binding; however, HDX-MS data analysis is often challenging and time-consuming. Moreover, the HDX community is expanding to investigate multiprotein and highly complex protein systems which further complicates data analysis. Thus, a simple, open-source software package designed to analyze large and highly complex protein systems is needed. In this vein, we have developed "The Deuterium Calculator", a Python-based software package for HDX-MS data analysis. The Deuterium Calculator is capable of differential and nondifferential HDX-MS analysis, produces standardized data files according to recommendations from the International Conference on Hydrogen-Exchange Mass Spectrometry (IC-HDX) to increase transparency in data analysis, and generates Woods' plots for statistical analysis and data visualization. This standard output can be used to perform time dependent deuteration studies and for the study of protein folding kinetics or differential uptake. Moreover, The Deuterium Calculator is capable of performing these analyses on large HDX-MS data sets (e.g., LC-HDX-MS from cell lysate digest). The Deuterium Calculator is freely available for download at https://github.com/OUWuLab/TheDeuteriumCalculator.git. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036813.
PXD028822	36696389	Neoplastic signatures: Comparative proteomics of canine hepatobiliary neuroendocrine tumors to normal niche tissue. 	Proteomic Analysis of Canine Hepatobiliary Neuroendocrine Neoplasms	Neurouro	Hepatobiliary neuroendocrine neoplasms are rare cancers in humans and dogs. To date, no large-scale primary hepatobiliary neoplasm omics analyses exist in any species. This limits the development of diagnostic biomarkers and targeted therapeutics. Neuroendocrine cancers are a heterogenous group of neoplasms categorized by their tissue-of-origin. Because the anatomic niche of neuroendocrine neoplasms shapes tumor phenotype, we sought to compare the proteomes of 3 canine hepatobiliary neoplasms to normal hepatobiliary tissue and adrenal glands with the objective of identifying unique protein signatures. Protein was extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples and submitted for tandem mass spectroscopy. Thirty-two upregulated and 126 downregulated differentially expressed proteins were identified. Remarkably, 6 (19%) of the upregulated proteins are correlated to non-hepatobiliary neuroendocrine neoplasia and 16 (50%) are functionally annotated within the exosome cellular compartment key to neuroendocrine signaling. Twenty-six (21%) downregulated proteins are enriched in metabolic pathways consistent with alterations in cancer. These results suggests that characteristic neoplastic protein signatures can be gleaned from small data sets using a comparative proteomics approach.
PXD037058	36696582	HyPep: An Open-Source Software for Identification and Discovery of Neuropeptides Using Sequence Homology Search. 	HyPep: An Open-Source Software for Identification and Discovery of Neuropeptides using Sequence Homology Searching	FDR, HyPep, Neuropeptide, de novo sequencing, homology, peptide, peptidomics	Neuropeptides are a class of endogenous peptides that have key regulatory roles in biochemical, physiological, and behavioral processes. Mass spectrometry analyses of neuropeptides often rely on protein informatics tools for database searching and peptide identification. As neuropeptide databases are typically experimentally built and comprised of short sequences with high sequence similarity to each other, we developed a novel database searching tool, HyPep, which utilizes sequence homology searching for peptide identification. HyPep aligns de novo sequenced peptides, generated through PEAKS software, with neuropeptide database sequences and identifies neuropeptides based on the alignment score. HyPep performance was optimized using LC-MS/MS measurements of peptide extracts from various Callinectes sapidus neuronal tissue types and compared with a commercial database searching software, PEAKS DB. HyPep identified more neuropeptides from each tissue type than PEAKS DB at 1% false discovery rate, and the false match rate from both programs was 2%. In addition to identification, this report describes how HyPep can aid in the discovery of novel neuropeptides.
PXD033337	36697763	A truncated and catalytically inactive isoform of KDM5B histone demethylase accumulates in breast cancer cells and regulates H3K4 tri-methylation and gene expression. 	A truncated and catalytically inactive form of KDM5B histone demethylase accumulates in breast cancer cells and regulates H3K4 tri-methylation and gene expression	HMEs, Histone PTMs, epigenetics	KDM5B histone demethylase is overexpressed in many cancers and plays an ambivalent role in oncogenesis, depending on the specific context. This ambivalence could be explained by the expression of KDM5B protein isoforms with diverse functional roles, which could be present at different levels in various cancer cell lines. We show here that one of these isoforms, namely KDM5B-NTT, accumulates in breast cancer cell lines due to remarkable protein stability relative to the canonical PLU-1 isoform, which shows a much faster turnover. This isoform is the truncated and catalytically inactive product of an mRNA with a transcription start site downstream of the PLU-1 isoform, and the consequent usage of an alternative ATG for translation initiation. It also differs from the PLU-1 transcript in the inclusion of an additional exon (exon-6), previously attributed to other putative isoforms. Overexpression of this isoform in MCF7 cells leads to an increase in bulk H3K4 methylation and induces derepression of a gene cluster, including the tumor suppressor Cav1 and several genes involved in the interferon-alpha and -gamma response. We discuss the relevance of this finding considering the hypothesis that KDM5B may possess regulatory roles independent of its catalytic activity.
PXD035475	36697828	Visualization of translation and protein biogenesis at the ER membrane. 	Molecular snapshots of translation and protein translocation at the ER membrane	ER membrane, Ribosome, elongation factor 1	The dynamic ribosome-translocon complex, which resides at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane, produces a major fraction of the human proteome(1,2). It governs the synthesis, translocation, membrane insertion, N-glycosylation, folding and disulfide-bond formation of nascent proteins. Although individual components of this machinery have been studied at high resolution in isolation(3-7), insights into their interplay in the native membrane remain limited. Here we use cryo-electron tomography, extensive classification and molecular modelling to capture snapshots of mRNA translation and protein maturation at the ER membrane at molecular resolution. We identify a highly abundant classical pre-translocation intermediate with eukaryotic elongation factor 1a (eEF1a) in an extended conformation, suggesting that eEF1a may remain associated with the ribosome after GTP hydrolysis during proofreading. At the ER membrane, distinct polysomes bind to different ER translocons specialized in the synthesis of proteins with signal peptides or multipass transmembrane proteins with the translocon-associated protein complex (TRAP) present in both. The near-complete atomic model of the most abundant ER translocon variant comprising the protein-conducting channel SEC61, TRAP and the oligosaccharyltransferase complex A (OSTA) reveals specific interactions of TRAP with other translocon components. We observe stoichiometric and sub-stoichiometric cofactors associated with OSTA, which are likely to include protein isomerases. In sum, we visualize ER-bound polysomes with their coordinated downstream machinery.
PXD029548	36697829	Mitochondrial complexome reveals quality-control pathways of protein import. 	High-Resolution Complexome-Profiling of Mitochondria Reveals Quality Control Pathways of Protein Import	BN-MS, BN-PAGE, LC-MS, complexome, cryo-slicing, mitochondria	Mitochondria have crucial roles in cellular energetics, metabolism, signalling and quality control(1-4). They contain around 1,000 different proteins that often assemble into complexes and supercomplexes such as respiratory complexes and preprotein translocases(1,3-7). The composition of the mitochondrial proteome has been characterized(1,3,5,6); however, the organization of mitochondrial proteins into stable and dynamic assemblies is poorly understood for major parts of the proteome(1,4,7). Here we report quantitative mapping of mitochondrial protein assemblies using high-resolution complexome profiling of more than 90% of the yeast mitochondrial proteome, termed MitCOM. An analysis of the MitCOM dataset resolves >5,200 protein peaks with an average of six peaks per protein and demonstrates a notable complexity of mitochondrial protein assemblies with distinct appearance for respiration, metabolism, biogenesis, dynamics, regulation and redox processes. We detect interactors of the mitochondrial receptor for cytosolic ribosomes, of prohibitin scaffolds and of respiratory complexes. The identification of quality-control factors operating at the mitochondrial protein entry gate reveals pathways for preprotein ubiquitylation, deubiquitylation and degradation. Interactions between the peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase Pth2 and the entry gate led to the elucidation of a constitutive pathway for the removal of preproteins. The MitCOM dataset-which is accessible through an interactive profile viewer-is a comprehensive resource for the identification, organization and interaction of mitochondrial machineries and pathways.
PXD038220	36698045	In-depth characterization of protein N-glycosylation for a COVID-19 variant-design vaccine spike protein. 	In Depth Characterization of Protein N-Glycosylation for a COVID-19 Variant-Design Vaccine Spike Protein	COVID-19, Spike  Glycosylation, Variant	COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection and remains one of the biggest pandemics around the world since 2019. Vaccination has proved to be an effective way of preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection and alleviating the hospitalization burden. Among different forms of COVID-19 vaccine design, the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 virus is widely used as a candidate vaccine antigen. As a surface protein on the virus envelop, the spike was reported to be heavily N-glycosylated and glycosylation had a great impact on its immunogenicity and efficacy. Besides, N-glycosylation might vary greatly on different expression systems and sequence variant designs. Therefore, comprehensive analysis of spike N-glycosylation is of great significance for better vaccine understanding and quality control. In this study, full characterization of N-glycosylation was performed for a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell expressed variant-designed spike protein. The spike protein featured the latest six-proline substitution design together with the incorporation of a combination of mutation sites. Trypsin and Glu-C digestion coupled with PNGase F strategies were adopted, and effective LC-MS/MS methods were applied to analyze samples. As a result, a total of 19 N-glycosites were identified in the recombinant pike protein at intact N-glycopeptide level. Quantitative analysis of released glycan by LC-MS/MS was also performed, and 31 high-abundance N-glycans were identified. Sequencing analysis of glycan was further provided to assist glycan structure confirmation. Moreover, all of the analyses were performed on three consecutive manufactured batches and the glycosylation results on both glycosite and glycans showed good batch-to-batch consistency. Thus, the reported analytical strategy and N-glycosylation information may well facilitate studies on SARS-CoV-2 spike protein analysis and quality studies.
PXD038596	36698951	Proteome-wide analysis of lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation in the myocardium of diabetic rat model with cardiomyopathy. 	Proteome-wide Analysis of Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation in the myocardium of diabetic rat model with cardiomyopathy	Diabetic cardiomyopathy, Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation, Post-translational modification	Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation (kbhb), a novel modification of lysine residues with the beta-hydroxybuty group, is associated with ketone metabolism in numerous species. However, its potential role in diabetes, especially in diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), remains largely unexplored. In this study, using affinity enrichment and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method, we quantitatively analyze the kbhb residues on heart tissues of a DCM model rat. A total of 3,520 kbhb sites in 1,089 proteins were identified in this study. Further analysis showed that 336 kbhb sites in 143 proteins were differentially expressed between the heart tissues of DCM and wild-type rats. Among them, 284 kbhb sites in 96 proteins were upregulated, while 52 kbhb sites in 47 proteins were downregulated. Bioinformatic analysis of the proteomic results revealed that these kbhb-modified proteins were widely distributed in various components and involved in a wide range of cellular functions and biological processes (BPs). Functional analysis showed that the kbhb-modified proteins were involved in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, and propanoate metabolism. Our findings demonstrated how kbhb is related to many metabolic pathways and is mainly involved in energy metabolism. These results provide the first global investigation of the kbhb profile in DCM progression and can be an essential resource to explore DCM's pathogenesis further.
PXD038342	36699581	Inhibition of planktonic growth and biofilm formation of Staphylococcus aureus by entrectinib through disrupting the cell membrane. 	proteomic response of S. aureus with entrectinib treatment	S. aureus, entrectinib	Over the last few decades, Staphylococcus aureus infection remain a major medical challenge and health concern worldwide. Biofilm formation and antibiotic resistance caused by S. aureus make it difficult to be eradicated from bacterial infections in clinics. In this study, our data demonstrated the antibacterial and excellent anti-biofilm activity of entrectinib against S. aureus. Entrectinib also exhibited the good safety, suggesting no toxicity with antibacterial concentration of entrectinib toward the erythrocytes and mammalian 239 T cells. Moreover, entrectinib significantly reduced the bacterial burden of septic tissue in a murine model of MRSA infection. Global proteomic analysis of S. aureus treated with entrectinib showed significant changes in the expression levels of ribosomal structure-related (rpmC, rpmD, rplX, and rpsT) and oxidative stress-related proteins (Thioredoxin system), suggesting the possible inhibition of bacterial protein biosynthesis with entrectinib exposure. The increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was demonstrated in the entrectinib-treated S. aureus, supported the impact of entrectinib on the expression changes of ROS-correlated proteins involved in oxidative stress. Furthermore, entrectinib-induced resistant S. aureus clone was selected by in vitro induction under entrectinib exposure and 3 amino acid mutations in the entrectinib-induced resistant S. aureus strain, 2 of which were located in the gene encoding Type II NADH: quinoneoxidoreductase and one were found in GTP pyrophosphokinase family protein. Finally, the bactericidal action of entrectinib on S. aureus were confirmed by disrupting the bacterial cell membrane. Conclusively, entrectinib exhibit the antibacterial and anti-biofilm activity by destroying cell membrane against S. aureus.
PXD035541	36699698	Defining the altered glycoproteomic space of the early secretory pathway by class I mannosidase pharmacological inhibition. 	Early Secretory Pathway glycoprotein analysis dataset	degradation, glycoproteomics, kifunensine, liquid-chromatography, mannosidase, melanoma, misfolded	N-glycosylation is a key process for various biological functions like protein folding, maturation and sorting for the conventional secretory compartment, cell-cell communication and immune response. This is usually accomplished by a complex system of mannosidases in which those from class I have an outstanding role, commonly involved in the early protein sorting associated to the Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) in the N-glycan dependent quality control (ERQC) and ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although these are vital processes in maintaining cellular homeostasis, large-scale analysis studies for this pool of molecules, further denoted as proteins from the early secretory pathway (ESP), were limited addressed. Here, using a custom workflow employing a combination of glycomics and deglycoproteomics analyses, using lectin affinity and selective Endoglycosidase H (Endo H) digestion, we scrutinize the steady-state oligomannosidic glycoprotein load and delineate ESP fraction in melanoma cells. All of these were assessed by applying our workflow for glycosite relative quantification of both the peptide chain and carbohydrate structure in cells with inhibited activity of class I mannosidases after kifunensine treatment. We found that most of the ESP are transient clients involved in cell communication via extracellular matrix, particularly integrin-mediated communication which adopt Man9 N-glycans in kifunensine-treated cells. Moreover, our results reveal that core-fucosylation is decreased subsequent inhibition of class I mannosidases and this could be explained by a general lower protein level of FUT8, the enzyme responsible for fucosylation. By comparing our data with results obtained following downregulation of a key mannosidase in misfolded protein degradation, we mapped both novel and previously suggested endogenous substrate candidates like PCDH2, HLA-B, LAMB2 or members of the integrin family of proteins such as ITGA1 and ITGA4, thus validating the findings obtained using our workflow regarding accumulation and characterization of ESP transitory members following mannosidase class I inhibition. This workflow and the associated dataset not only allowed us to investigate the oligomannosidic glycoprotein fraction but also to delineate differences mediated at glycosite-level upon kifunensine treatment and outline the potential associated cellular responses.
PXD030471	36700487	Profiling Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-Interacting Proteins in the Cell Membrane Using a Bifunctional GPI Analogue as the Probe. 	Monosaccharide and disaccharide	Disaccharide probe, Hela cell	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchorage of cell surface proteins to the membrane is biologically important and ubiquitous in eukaryotes. However, GPIs do not contain long enough lipids to span the entire membrane bilayer. To transduce binding signals, GPIs must interact with other membrane components, but such interactions are difficult to define. Here, a new method was developed to explore GPI-interacting membrane proteins in live cell with a bifunctional analogue of the glucosaminylphosphatidylinositol motif conserved in all GPIs as a probe. This probe contained a diazirine functionality in the lipid and an alkynyl group on the glucosamine residue to respectively facilitate the cross-linkage of GPI-binding membrane proteins with the probe upon photoactivation and then the installation of biotin to the cross-linked proteins via a click reaction for affinity-based protein isolation and analysis. Profiling the proteins pulled down from the Hela cells revealed 94 unique and 18 overrepresented proteins compared to the control, and most of them are membrane proteins and many are GPI-related. The results have proved not only the concept of using the new bifunctional GPI probe to investigate GPI-binding membrane proteins but also the important role of inositol in the biological functions of GPI anchors and GPI-anchored proteins.
PXD038501	36700627	High-Throughput Quantitative Glycomics Enabled by 12-plex Isobaric Multiplex Labeling Reagents for Carbonyl-Containing Compound (SUGAR) Tags. 	High-throughput Quantitative Glycomics Enabled by 12-plex Isobaric Multiplex Labeling Reagents for Carbonyl-Containing Compound (SUGAR) Tags	N-glycan, isobaric labeling	Glycans, which are widely distributed on most proteins and cell surfaces, are a class of important biomolecules playing crucial roles in various biological processes such as immune response and cellular communication. Modern mass spectrometry (MS) coupled with novel chemical probes greatly facilitates routine analysis of glycans. However, the requirement of high-throughput analysis still calls for advanced tools to be developed. Recently, we devised isobaric multiplex reagents for carbonyl-containing compound (SUGAR) tags for 4-plex N-glycan analysis. To further improve the throughput, we utilized the subtle mass differences among different isotopologues and expanded the multiplexing capacity to 12 channels, a 3-fold throughput improvement for the original SUGAR tag design and achieved high-throughput N-glycan analysis in a single LC-MS/MS injection. We then applied 12-plex SUGAR tags to profile the N-glycans in four subtypes of human Immunoglobulin G (IgG) and to investigate the N-glycan changes in the endometrial cancer cells (ECC1) treated with Atovaquone, a quinone antimicrobial medication, and a dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) inhibitor. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD038501.
PXD038934	36701140	AMPK Phosphorylates ZDHHC13 to Increase MC1R Activity and Suppress Melanomagenesis. 	Human ZDHHC13 phosphorylation test	ZDHHC13, phosphorylation	Inherited genetic variations in the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) responsible for human red hair color (RHC) variants are associated with impaired DNA damage repair and increased melanoma risk. MC1R signaling is critically dependent on palmitoylation, primarily mediated by the protein acyltransferase zinc finger DHHC-type palmitoyltransferase 13 (ZDHHC13). A better understanding of how ZDHHC13 is physiologically activated could help identify approaches to prevent melanomagenesis in redheads. Here, we report that AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylates ZDHHC13 at S208 to strengthen the interaction between ZDHHC13 and MC1R-RHC, leading to enhanced MC1R palmitoylation in redheads. Consequently, phosphorylation of ZDHHC13 by AMPK increased MC1R-RHC downstream signaling. AMPK activation and MC1R palmitoylation repressed UVB-induced transformation of human melanocytes in vitro and delayed melanomagenesis in vivo in C57BL/6J-MC1R-RHC mice. The importance of AMPK to MC1R signaling was validated in human melanomas where AMPK upregulation correlated with expression of factors downstream from MC1R signaling and with prolonged patient survival. These findings suggest AMPK activation as a promising strategy to reduce melanoma risk, especially for individuals with red hair. SIGNIFICANCE: Phosphorylation of ZDHHC13 by AMPK at S208 promotes MC1R activation and suppresses melanocyte transformation, indicating activation of AMPK as a potential approach to prevent melanoma in people with red hair.
PXD031984	36701236	Single-copy locus proteomics of early- and late-firing DNA replication origins identifies a role of Ask1/DASH complex in replication timing control. 	Single-copy locus isolation identifies distinct proteomes of early- and late-firing DNA replication origin chromatin	Affinity purification, DNA replication origin, Locus-specific chromatin isolation, Site-specific recombination, histone PTMs, replication efficiency, replication timing	The chromatin environment at origins of replication is thought to influence DNA replication initiation in eukaryotic genomes. However, it remains unclear how and which chromatin features control the firing of early-efficient (EE) or late-inefficient (LI) origins. Here, we use site-specific recombination and single-locus chromatin isolation to purify EE and LI replication origins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Using mass spectrometry, we define the protein composition of native chromatin regions surrounding the EE and LI replication start sites. In addition to known origin interactors, we find the microtubule-binding Ask1/DASH complex as an origin-regulating factor. Strikingly, tethering of Ask1 to individual origin sites advances replication timing (RT) of the targeted chromosomal domain. Targeted degradation of Ask1 globally changes RT of a subset of origins, which can be reproduced by inhibiting microtubule dynamics. Thus, our findings mechanistically connect RT and chromosomal organization via Ask1/DASH with the microtubule cytoskeleton.
PXD026503	36701930	CKAP4-mediated activation of FOXM1 via phosphorylation pathways regulates malignant behavior of glioblastoma cells. 	Comprehensive Proteomic Profiling and Identification of Potential Hub Genes  in Primary and Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme	CKAP4, UQCRC1, primary glioblastoma multiforme, recurrence	OBJECTIVE: CKAP4 (Cytoskeleton Associated Protein 4) has been reported as an important regulator of carcinogenesis. A great deal of uncertainty still surrounds the possible molecular mechanism of CKAP4 involvement in GBM. We aimed to specifically elucidate the putative role of CKAP4 in the development of GBM. METHODS: We identified divergent proteomics landscapes of GBM and adjacent normal tissues using mass spectrometry-based label-free quantification. Bioinformatics analysis of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) led to the identification of CKAP4 as a hub gene. Based on the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas data, we characterized the elevated expression of CKAP4 in GBM and developed a prognostic model. The influence of CKAP4 on malignant behavior of GBM was detected in vitro and vivo, as well as its downstream target and signaling pathways. RESULTS: The prognosis model displayed accuracy and reliability for the probability of survival of patients with gliomas. CKAP4 knockdown remarkably reduced the malignant potential of GBM cells, whereas its overexpression reversed these effects in GBM cells and xenograft mice. Moreover, we demonstrated that overexpression of CKAP4 leads to increased FOXM1 (Forkhead Box M1) expression in conjunction with an increased level of AKT and ERK phosphorylation. Inhibition of both pathways had synergistic effects, resulting in greater effectiveness of inhibition. CKAP4 could reverse the deregulation of FOXM1 triggered by inhibition of AKT and ERK signaling. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to reveal a CKAP4-FOXM1 signaling cascade that contributes to the malignant phenotype of GBMs. The CKAP4-based prognostic model would facilitate individualized treatment decisions for glioma patients.
PXD037583	36702251	Multiple oxidative post-translational modifications of human glutamine synthetase mediate peroxynitrite-dependent enzyme inactivation and aggregation. 	Peroxynitrite-mediated post-translational modification of human glutamine synthetase	Peroxynitrite, glutamine synthetase, nitrotyrosine, oxidative stress, protein oxidation	Glutamine synthetase (GS), which catalyzes the ATP-dependent synthesis of L-glutamine from L-glutamate and ammonia, is a ubiquitous and conserved enzyme that plays a pivotal role in nitrogen metabolism across all life domains. In vertebrates, GS is highly expressed in astrocytes, where its activity sustains the glutamate-glutamine cycle at glutamatergic synapses and is thus essential for maintaining brain homeostasis. In fact, decreased GS levels or activity have been associated with neurodegenerative diseases, with these alterations attributed to oxidative post-translational modifications of the protein, in particular tyrosine nitration. In this study, we expressed and purified human GS (HsGS) and performed an in-depth analysis of its oxidative inactivation by peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) in vitro. We found that ONOO(-) exposure led to a dose-dependent loss of HsGS activity, the oxidation of cysteine, methionine, and tyrosine residues and also the nitration of tryptophan and tyrosine residues. Peptide mapping by LC-MS/MS through combined H2(16)O/H2(18)O trypsin digestion identified up to 10 tyrosine nitration sites and five types of dityrosine cross-links; these modifications were further scrutinized by structural analysis. Tyrosine residues 171, 185, 269, 283, and 336 were the main nitration targets; however, tyrosine-to-phenylalanine HsGS mutants revealed that their sole nitration was not responsible for enzyme inactivation. In addition, we observed that ONOO(-) induced HsGS aggregation and activity loss. Thiol oxidation was a key modification to elicit aggregation, as it was also induced by hydrogen peroxide treatment. Taken together, our results indicate that multiple oxidative events at various sites are responsible for the inactivation and aggregation of human GS.
PXD032828	36702252	Lanpepsy is a novel lanthanide-binding protein involved in the lanthanide response of the obligate methylotroph Methylobacillus flagellatus. 	Lanthanide response of the obligate methylotroph Methylobacillus flagellatus and discovery of lanpepsy, a novel lanthanide-binding protein	Lanthanides, Methylotroph	Lanthanides were recently discovered as metals required in the active site of certain methanol dehydrogenases. Since then, the characterization of the lanthanome, that is, proteins involved in sensing, uptake, and utilization of lanthanides, has become an active field of research. Initial exploration of the response to lanthanides in methylotrophs has revealed that the lanthanome is not conserved and that multiple mechanisms for lanthanide utilization must exist. Here, we investigated the lanthanome in the obligate model methylotroph Methylobacillus flagellatus. We used a proteomic approach to analyze differentially regulated proteins in the presence of lanthanum. While multiple known proteins showed induction upon growth in the presence of lanthanum (Xox proteins, TonB-dependent receptor), we also identified several novel proteins not previously associated with lanthanide utilization. Among these was Mfla_0908, a periplasmic 19 kDa protein without functional annotation. The protein comprises two characteristic PepSY domains, which is why we termed the protein lanpepsy (LanP). Based on bioinformatic analysis, we speculated that LanP could be involved in lanthanide binding. Using dye competition assays, quantification of protein-bound lanthanides by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, as well as isothermal titration calorimetry, we demonstrated the presence of multiple lanthanide binding sites that showed selectivity over the chemically similar calcium ion. LanP thus represents the first member of the PepSY family that binds lanthanides. Although the physiological role of LanP is still unclear, its identification is of interest for applications toward the sustainable purification and separation of rare-earth elements.
PXD027791	36702456	MS1Connect: a mass spectrometry run similarity measure. 	MS1Connect: a mass spectrometry run similarity measure	bacteria, similarity	MOTIVATION: Interpretation of newly acquired mass spectrometry data can be improved by identifying, from an online repository, previous mass spectrometry runs that resemble the new data. However, this retrieval task requires computing the similarity between an arbitrary pair of mass spectrometry runs. This is particularly challenging for runs acquired using different experimental protocols. RESULTS: We propose a method, MS1Connect, that calculates the similarity between a pair of runs by examining only the intact peptide (MS1) scans, and we show evidence that the MS1Connect score is accurate. Specifically, we show that MS1Connect outperforms several baseline methods on the task of predicting the species from which a given proteomics sample originated. In addition, we show that MS1Connect scores are highly correlated with similarities computed from fragment (MS2) scans, even though these data are not used by MS1Connect. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The MS1Connect software is available at https://github.com/bmx8177/MS1Connect. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD011399	36702790	Isolation of lymph shows dysregulation of STAT3 and CREB pathways in the spleen and liver during leukemia development in a rat model. 	Isolation of spleen lymph during leukemia development	Lymph, Rat, Spleen	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous malignant condition characterized by massive infiltration of poorly differentiated white blood cells in the blood stream, bone marrow, and extramedullary sites. During leukemic development, hepatosplenomegaly is expected to occur because large blood volumes are continuously filtered through these organs. We asked whether infiltration of leukemic blasts initiated a response that could be detected in the interstitial fluid phase of the spleen and liver. MATERIAL AND METHODS: We used a rat model known to mimic human AML in growth characteristics and behavior. By cannulating efferent lymphatic vessels from the spleen and liver, we were able to monitor the response of the microenvironment during AML development. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Flow cytometric analysis of lymphocytes showed increased STAT3 and CREB signaling in spleen and depressed signaling in liver, and proteins related to these pathways were identified with a different profile in lymph and plasma in AML compared with control. Additionally, several proteins were differently regulated in the microenvironment of spleen and liver in AML when compared with control. CONCLUSION: Interstitial fluid, and its surrogate efferent lymph, can be used to provide unique information about responses in AML-infiltered organs and substances released to the general circulation during leukemia development.
PXD036892	36702941	Isolation and infection cycle of a polinton-like virus virophage in an abundant marine alga. 	Infection cycle and phylogeny of a Polinton-like-virus virophage infecting Phaeocystis globosa	Phaeocystis globosa, Polinton-like-virus virophage	Virophages are small double stranded DNA (dsDNA) viruses that can only replicate in a host by co-infecting with another virus. Marine algae are commonly associated with virophage-like elements such as Polinton-like viruses (PLVs) that remain largely uncharacterized. Here we isolated a PLV that co-infects the alga Phaeocystis globosa with the Phaeocystis globosa virus-14T (PgV-14T), a close relative of the "Phaeocystis globosa virus-virophage" genomic sequence. We name this PLV 'Gezel-14T. Gezel is phylogenetically distinct from the Lavidaviridae family where all known virophages belong. Gezel-14T co-infection decreases the fitness of its viral host by reducing burst sizes of PgV-14T, yet insufficiently to spare the cellular host population. Genomic screens show Gezel-14T-like PLVs integrated into Phaeocystis genomes, suggesting that these widespread viruses are capable of integration into cellular host genomes. This system presents an opportunity to better understand the evolution of eukaryotic dsDNA viruses as well as the complex dynamics and implications of viral parasitism.
PXD038883	36704166	Label-free quantitative proteomics of arbuscular mycorrhizal Elaeagnus angustifolia seedlings provides insights into salt-stress tolerance mechanisms. 	Arbuscular mycorrhizal plant salt stressA	E.angustifolia, Halophyte, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, salt stress	Introduction: Soil salinization has become one of the most serious environmental issues globally. Excessive accumulation of soluble salts will adversely affect the survival, growth, and reproduction of plants. Elaeagnus angustifolia L., commonly known as oleaster or Russian olive, has the characteristics of tolerance to drought and salt. Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi are considered to be bio-ameliorator of saline soils that can enhance the salt tolerance of the host plants. However, there is little information on the root proteomics of AM plants under salt stress. Methods: In this study, a label-free quantitative proteomics method was employed to identify the differentially abundant proteins in AM E. angustifolia seedlings under salt stress. Results: The results showed that a total of 170 proteins were significantly differentially regulated in E.angustifolia seedlings after AMF inoculation under salt stress. Mycorrhizal symbiosis helps the host plant E. angustifolia to respond positively to salt stress and enhances its salt tolerance by regulating the activities of some key proteins related to amino acid metabolism, lipid metabolism, and glutathione metabolism in root tissues. Conclusion: Aspartate aminotransferase, dehydratase-enolase-phosphatase 1 (DEP1), phospholipases D, diacylglycerol kinase, glycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferases, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidases may play important roles in mitigating the detrimental effect of salt stress on mycorrhizal E. angustifolia . In conclusion, these findings provide new insights into the salt-stress tolerance mechanisms of AM E. angustifolia seedlings and also clarify the role of AM fungi in the molecular regulation network of E. angustifolia under salt stress.
PXD028535	36705799	The Influence of the FFAR4 Agonist TUG-891 on Liver Steatosis in ApoE-Knockout Mice. 	Proteomic analysis of liver cytosol and mitochondria of apoE-KO mice treated with TUG-891.	SWATH, TUG-891, apoE-KO mice, liver	BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) constitutes an independent risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease. Low-grade inflammation has been shown to play an important role in the development of atherosclerosis and NAFLD. Free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4/GPR120), which is involved in damping inflammatory reactions, may represent a promising target for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. Our objective was to evaluate the effect of TUG-891, the synthetic agonist of FFAR4/GPR120, on fatty liver in vivo. METHODS: The effect of TUG-891 on fatty liver was investigated in apoE(-/-) mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), using microscopic, biochemical, molecular, and proteomic methods. RESULTS: Treatment with TUG-891 inhibited the progression of liver steatosis in apoE(-/-) mice, as evidenced by histological analysis, and reduced the accumulation of TG in the liver. This action was associated with a decrease in plasma AST levels. TUG-891 decreased the expression of liver genes and proteins involved in de novo lipogenesis (Srebp-1c, Fasn and Scd1) and decreased the expression of genes related to oxidation and uptake (Acox1, Ehhadh, Cd36, Fabp1). Furthermore, TUG-891 modified the levels of selected factors related to glucose metabolism (decreased Glut2, Pdk4 and Pklr, and increased G6pdx). CONCLUSION: Pharmacological stimulation of FFAR4 may represent a promising lead in the search for drugs that inhibit NAFLD.
PXD033178	36706192	Displaying and delivering viral membrane antigens via WW domain-activated extracellular vesicles. 	WW domain activated extracellular vesicles (WAEV) proteome	Extracellular vesicles, Vaccine, WW domain	Membrane proteins expressed on the surface of enveloped viruses are conformational antigens readily recognized by B cells of the immune system. An effective vaccine would require the synthesis and delivery of these native conformational antigens in lipid membranes that preserve specific epitope structures. We have created an extracellular vesicle-based technology that allows viral membrane antigens to be selectively recruited onto the surface of WW domain-activated extracellular vesicles (WAEVs). Budding of WAEVs requires secretory carrier-associated membrane protein 3, which through its proline-proline-alanine-tyrosine motif interacts with WW domains to recruit fused viral membrane antigens onto WAEVs. Immunization with influenza and HIV viral membrane proteins displayed on WAEVs elicits production of virus-specific neutralizing antibodies and, in the case of influenza antigens, protects mice from the lethal viral infection. WAEVs thus represent a versatile platform for presenting and delivering membrane antigens as vaccines against influenza, HIV, and potentially many other viral pathogens.
PXD038571	36707614	Mycelial nutrient transfer promotes bacterial co-metabolic organochlorine pesticide degradation in nutrient-deprived environments. 	Mycelial nutrient transfer promotes bacterial co-metabolic organochlorine pesticide degradation in nutrient-deprived environments	Biotransformation, fungal-bacterial interactions, mycelia, nutrient transport, pesticides, protein-SIP	Biotransformation of soil organochlorine pesticides (OCP) is often impeded by a lack of nutrients relevant for bacterial growth and/or co-metabolic OCP biotransformation. By providing space-filling mycelia, fungi promote contaminant biodegradation by facilitating bacterial dispersal and the mobilization and release of nutrients in the mycosphere. We here tested whether mycelial nutrient transfer from nutrient-rich to nutrient-deprived areas facilitates bacterial OCP degradation in a nutrient-deficient habitat. The legacy pesticide hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH), a non-HCH-degrading fungus (Fusarium equiseti K3), and a co-metabolically HCH-degrading bacterium (Sphingobium sp. S8) isolated from the same HCH-contaminated soil were used in spatially structured model ecosystems. Using (13)C-labeled fungal biomass and protein-based stable isotope probing (protein-SIP), we traced the incorporation of (13)C fungal metabolites into bacterial proteins while simultaneously determining the biotransformation of the HCH isomers. The relative isotope abundance (RIA, 7.1-14.2%), labeling ratio (LR, 0.13-0.35), and the shape of isotopic mass distribution profiles of bacterial peptides indicated the transfer of (13)C-labeled fungal metabolites into bacterial proteins. Distinct (13)C incorporation into the haloalkane dehalogenase (linB) and 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol dehydrogenase (LinC), as key enzymes in metabolic HCH degradation, underpin the role of mycelial nutrient transport and fungal-bacterial interactions for co-metabolic bacterial HCH degradation in heterogeneous habitats. Nutrient uptake from mycelia increased HCH removal by twofold as compared to bacterial monocultures. Fungal-bacterial interactions hence may play an important role in the co-metabolic biotransformation of OCP or recalcitrant micropollutants (MPs).
PXD033457	36708875	P300 Interacted With N-Myc and Regulated Its Protein Stability via Altering Its Post-Translational Modifications in Neuroblastoma. 	Nmyc co-IP and post-translational modification identification	Nmyc, PTMs, interacting proteins	MYCN amplification is an independent risk factor for poor prognosis in neuroblastoma (NB), but its protein product cannot be directly targeted because of protein structure. Thus, this study aimed to explore novel ways to indirectly target N-Myc by regulating its post-translational modifications (PTMs) and therefore protein stability. N-Myc coimmunoprecipitation combined with HPLC-MS/MS identified 16 PTM residues and 114 potential N-Myc-interacting proteins. Notably, both acetylation and ubiquitination were identified on lysine 199 of N-Myc. We then discovered that p300, which can interact with N-Myc, modulated the protein stability of N-Myc in MYCN-amplified NB cell lines and simultaneously regulated the acetylation level and ubiquitination level on lysine-199 of N-Myc protein in vitro. Furthermore, p300 correlated with poor prognosis in NB patients. Taken together, p300 can be considered as a potential therapeutic target to treat MYCN-amplified NB patients, and other identified PTMs and interacting proteins also provide potential targets for further study.
PXD038968	36709316	The H2A.Z and NuRD associated protein HMG20A controls early head and heart developmental transcription programs. 	Association of HMG20A to H2A.Z, PWWP2A and NuRD complex	AP-MS, HK cells, HMG20A, chromatin	Specialized chromatin-binding proteins are required for DNA-based processes during development. We recently established PWWP2A as a direct histone variant H2A.Z interactor involved in mitosis and craniofacial development. Here, we identify the H2A.Z/PWWP2A-associated protein HMG20A as part of several chromatin-modifying complexes, including NuRD, and show that it localizes to distinct genomic regulatory regions. Hmg20a depletion causes severe head and heart developmental defects in Xenopus laevis. Our data indicate that craniofacial malformations are caused by defects in neural crest cell (NCC) migration and cartilage formation. These developmental failures are phenocopied in Hmg20a-depleted mESCs, which show inefficient differentiation into NCCs and cardiomyocytes (CM). Consequently, loss of HMG20A, which marks open promoters and enhancers, results in chromatin accessibility changes and a striking deregulation of transcription programs involved in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and differentiation processes. Collectively, our findings implicate HMG20A as part of the H2A.Z/PWWP2A/NuRD-axis and reveal it as a key modulator of intricate developmental transcription programs that guide the differentiation of NCCs and CMs.
PXD039281	36709426	Elevated PAF1-RAD52 axis confers chemoresistance to human cancers. 	Elevated PAF1-RAD52 Axis Confers Chemoresistance to Human Cancers	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Lung Cancer, Ovarian Cancer, PAF1, Pancreatic Cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), RAD52	Cisplatin- and gemcitabine-based chemotherapeutics represent a mainstay of cancer therapy for most solid tumors; however, resistance limits their curative potential. Here, we identify RNA polymerase II-associated factor 1 (PAF1) as a common driver of cisplatin and gemcitabine resistance in human cancers (ovarian, lung, and pancreas). Mechanistically, cisplatin- and gemcitabine-resistant cells show enhanced DNA repair, which is inhibited by PAF1 silencing. We demonstrate an increased interaction of PAF1 with RAD52 in resistant cells. Targeting the PAF1 and RAD52 axis combined with cisplatin or gemcitabine strongly diminishes the survival potential of resistant cells. Overall, this study shows clinical evidence that the expression of PAF1 contributes to chemotherapy resistance and worse clinical outcome for lethal cancers.
PXD037130	36709534	Proteomics identifies novel biomarkers of synovial joint disease in a canine model of mucopolysaccharidosis I. 	Proteomic Screening Identifies Novel Biomarkers and Mechanisms of Synovial Joint Disease in a Canine Model of Mucopolysaccharidosis I	Canine Model, Mucopolysaccharidosis, Serum, Synovial Joint Disease, Synovial fluid	Mucopolysaccharidosis I is a lysosomal storage disorder characterized by deficient alpha-L-iduronidase activity, leading to abnormal accumulation of glycosaminoglycans in cells and tissues. Synovial joint disease is prevalent and significantly reduces patient quality of life. There is a critical need for improved understanding of joint disease pathophysiology in MPS I, including specific biomarkers to predict and monitor joint disease progression, and response to treatment. The objective of this study was to leverage the naturally-occurring MPS I canine model and undertake an unbiased proteomic screen to identify systemic biomarkers predictive of local joint disease in MPS I. Synovial fluid and serum samples were collected from MPS I and healthy dogs at 12 months-of-age, and protein abundance characterized using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Stifle joints were evaluated postmortem using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and histology. Proteomics identified 40 proteins for which abundance was significantly correlated between serum and synovial fluid, including markers of inflammatory joint disease and lysosomal dysfunction. Elevated expression of three biomarker candidates, matrix metalloproteinase 19, inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy-chain 3 and alpha-1-microglobulin, was confirmed in MPS I cartilage, and serum abundance of these molecules was found to correlate with MRI and histological degenerative grades. The candidate biomarkers identified have the potential to improve patient care by facilitating minimally-invasive, specific assessment of joint disease progression and response to therapeutic intervention.
PXD035588	36709898	Elucidating colony bloom formation mechanism of a harmful alga Phaeocystis globosa (Prymnesiophyceae) using metaproteomics. 	Elucidating colony bloom formation mechanism of a harmful alga Phaeocystis globosa (Prymnesiophyceae) using metaproteomics	Colony formation, Glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis, Harmful colony bloom, Metaproteomics, Phaeocystis globosa	Phaeocystis is a globally distributed Prymnesiophyte genus and usually forms massive harmful colony blooms, which impact marine ecosystem, mariculture, human health, and even threaten coastal nuclear power plant safety. However, the mechanisms behind the colony formation from the solitary cells remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated metabolic processes of both solitary and non-flagellated colonial cells of Phaeocystis globosa at different colony bloom stages in the subtropical Beibu Gulf using a metaproteomic approach. Temperature was significantly correlated with Phaeocystis colony bloom formation, and the flagellated motile solitary cells with abundant flagellum-associated proteins, such as tubulin and dynein, were the exclusive cellular morphotype at the solitary cell stage featured with temperatures >=21 degreesC. When the temperature decreased to <21 degreesC, tiny colonies appeared and the flagellum-associated proteins were down-regulated in both solitary and non-flagellated colonial cells, while proteins involved in biosynthesis, chain polymerization and aggregation of glycosaminoglycan (GAG), a key constituent of gelatinous matrix, were up-regulated, indicating the central role of active GAG biosynthesis during the colony formation. Furthermore, light utilization, carbon fixation, nitrogen assimilation, and amino acid and protein synthesis were also enhanced to provide sufficient energy and substrates for GAG biosynthesis. This study highlighted that temperature induced re-allocation of energy and substances toward GAG biosynthesis is essential for colony bloom formation of P. globosa.
PXD036271	36709920	AAV-based gene therapy prevents and halts the progression of dilated cardiomyopathy in a mouse model of phosphoglucomutase 1 deficiency (PGM1-CDG). 	AAV-based gene therapy prevents and halts the progression of dilated cardiomyopathy in a new mouse model of inherited phosphoglucomutase 1 deficiency (PGM1-CDG)	PGM1-CDG, glycoproteomics, heart	Phosphoglucomutase 1 (PGM1) deficiency is recognized as the third most common N-linked congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) in humans. Affected individuals present with liver, musculoskeletal, endocrine, and coagulation symptoms; however, the most life-threatening complication is the early onset of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Recently, we discovered that oral D-galactose supplementation improved liver disease, endocrine, and coagulation abnormalities, but does not alleviate the fatal cardiomyopathy and the associated myopathy. Here we report on left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in 6 individuals with PGM1-CDG. LVEF was pathologically low in most of these individuals and varied between 10% and 65%. To study the pathobiology of the cardiac disease observed in PGM1-CDG, we constructed a novel cardiomyocyte-specific conditional Pgm2 gene (mouse ortholog of human PGM1) knockout (Pgm2 cKO) mouse model. Echocardiography studies corroborated a DCM phenotype with significantly reduced ejection fraction and left ventricular dilation similar to those seen in individuals with PGM1-CDG. Histological studies demonstrated excess glycogen accumulation and fibrosis, while ultrastructural analysis revealed Z-disk disarray and swollen/fragmented mitochondria, which was similar to the ultrastructural pathology in the cardiac explant of an individual with PGM1-CDG. In addition, we found decreased mitochondrial function in the heart of KO mice. Transcriptomic analysis of hearts from mutant mice demonstrated a gene signature of DCM. Although proteomics revealed only mild changes in global protein expression in left ventricular tissue of mutant mice, a glycoproteomic analysis unveiled broad glycosylation changes with significant alterations in sarcolemmal proteins including different subunits of laminin-211, which was confirmed by immunoblot analyses. Finally, augmentation of PGM1 in KO mice via AAV9-PGM1 gene replacement therapy prevented and halted the progression of the DCM phenotype.
PXD029181	36710882	Plasma enzymatic activity, proteomics and peptidomics in COVID-19-induced sepsis: A novel approach for the analysis of hemostasis. 	Dysregulation of circulating protease activity in COVID-19-associated superinfection	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, enzymatic activity, peptidomics, proteolysis, sepsis	Introduction: Infection by SARS-CoV-2 and subsequent COVID-19 can cause viral sepsis. We investigated plasma protease activity patterns in COVID-19-induced sepsis with bacterial superinfection, as well as plasma proteomics and peptidomics in order to assess the possible implications of enhanced proteolysis on major protein systems (e.g., coagulation). Methods: Patients (=4) admitted to the intensive care units (ICUs) at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) Medical Center with confirmed positive test for COVID-19 by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were enrolled in a study approved by the UCSD Institutional Review Board (IRB# 190699, Protocol #20-0006). Informed consent was obtained for the collection of blood samples and de-identified use of the data. Blood samples were collected at multiple time points and analyzed to quantify a) the circulating proteome and peptidome by mass spectrometry; b) the aminopeptidase activity in plasma; and c) the endopeptidase activity in plasma using fluorogenic substrates that are cleaved by trypsin-like endopeptidases, specific clotting factors and plasmin. The one patient who died was diagnosed with bacterial superinfection on day 7 after beginning of the study. Results: Spikes in protease activity (factor VII, trypsin-like activity), and corresponding increases in the intensity of peptides derived by hydrolysis of plasma proteins, especially of fibrinogen degradation products and downregulation of endogenous protease inhibitors were detected on day 7 for the patient who died. The activity of the analyzed proteases was stable in survivors. Discussion: The combination of multiomics and enzymatic activity quantification enabled to i) hypothesize that elevated proteolysis occurs in COVID-19-induced septic shock with bacterial superinfection, and ii) provide additional insight into malfunctioning protease-mediated systems, such as hemostasis.
PXD046325	36711754	Reciprocal inhibition of PIN1 and APC/CCDH1 controls timely G1/S transition and creates therapeutic vulnerability. 	Proteomic analysis of the physiological E3 ubiquitin ligase responsible for PIN1 degradation	CDH1, PIN1	Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) mediated phosphorylation inactivates the anaphase-promoting complex (APC/C(CDH1)), an E3 ubiquitin ligase that contains the co-activator CDH1, to promote G1/S transition. PIN1 is a phosphorylation-directed proline isomerase and a master cancer signaling regulator. However, little are known about APC/C(CDH1) regulation after phosphorylation and about PIN1 ubiquitin ligases. Here we uncover a domain-oriented reciprocal inhibition that controls the timely G1/S transition: The non-phosphorylated APC/C(CDH1) E3 ligase targets PIN1 for degradation in G1 phase, restraining G1/S transition; APC/C(CDH1) itself, after phosphorylation by CDKs, is inactivated by PIN1-catalyzed isomerization, promoting G1/S transition. In cancer, PIN1 overexpression and APC/C(CDH1) inactivation reinforce each other to promote uncontrolled proliferation and tumorigenesis. Importantly, combined PIN1- and CDK4/6-inhibition reactivates APC/C(CDH1) resulting in PIN1 degradation and an insurmountable G1 arrest that translates into synergistic anti-tumor activity against triple-negative breast cancer in vivo. Reciprocal inhibition of PIN1 and APC/C(CDH1) is a novel mechanism to control timely G1/S transition that can be harnessed for synergistic anti-cancer therapy.
PXD038885	36713155	Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics analysis reveals the new regulatory mechanism of progranulin in influenza virus infection. 	TMT-based quantitative proteomics analysis reveals the new regulatory mechanism of PGRN in influenza virus infection	PGRN, TMT-based quantitative proteomics, influenza virus	Progranulin (PGRN) plays an important role in influenza virus infection. To gain insight into the potential molecular mechanisms by which PGRN regulates influenza viral replication, proteomic analyzes of whole mouse lung tissue from wild-type (WT) versus (vs) PGRN knockout (KO) mice were performed to identify proteins regulated by the absence vs. presence of PGRN. Our results revealed that PGRN regulated the differential expression of ALOX15, CD14, CD5L, and FCER1g, etc., and also affected the lysosomal activity in influenza virus infection. Collectively these findings provide a panoramic view of proteomic changes resulting from loss of PGRN and thereby shedding light on the functions of PGRN in influenza virus infection.
PXD034280	36713388	The involvement of the primo vascular system in local enteritis and its modification by electroacupuncture. 	Proteomic analysis of the primo vascular system in rabbits	TNBS-induced cecitis, Thr primo vascular system, rabbits	Introduction: The primo vascular system (PVS), an intensive network structure, has been claimed to be representative of the acupuncture meridian. Here, we explored the role of the PVS in local enteritis and its modification by acupuncture. Methods: Chronic cecitis in rabbits was induced by 2,4,6-trinitro-benzene-sulfonic acid (TNBS). The PVS on the cecum was visualized with trypan blue staining, and collected with the help of microsurgical forceps under an optical stereomicroscope. Results: The increased primo vessels (PVs) and primo nodes (PNs) of the PVS on the surface of the cecum were induced by local inflammation, which was positively correlated with the inflammatory cells in the cecal mucosa. Tandem mass tag (TMT) based proteomic analysis revealed that 110 differentiated proteins of the PVS existed between TNBS-treated and control rabbits; 65 proteins were upregulated, while 45 proteins were downregulated. These proteins were mainly enriched in inflammation- and immunity-related processes, such as inflammatory cell proliferation, antigen presentation, and cell adhesion in the proliferated PVS (data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifiers PXD034280). Importantly, TNBS-induced cecitis, the proliferated PVS and inflammation response-related proteins (CD40, CD45, HLA-DRA1, LAMP1, JAGN1 and FGL1) in the PVS were alleviated or reversed by repetitive electroacupuncture (EA) stimulations. Conclusion: These results suggest that the proliferated PVS and its active inclusions were related to the inflammatory process, which was modified by EA. Our study provides a new avenue for further exploration of the mechanism by which EA exerts anti-inflammatory effects.
PXD037640	36713420	CTSB promotes sepsis-induced acute kidney injury through activating mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. 	the DIA analysis of renal tissue	renal tissue	Background: Acute kidney injury is a common and severe complication of sepsis. Sepsis -induced acute kidney injury(S-AKI) is an independent risk factor for mortality among sepsis patients. However, the mechanisms of S-AKI are complex and poorly understand. Therefore, exploring the underlying mechanisms of S-AKI may lead to the development of therapeutic targets. Method: A model of S-AKI was established in male C57BL/6 mice using cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). The data-independent acquisition (DIA)-mass spectrometry-based proteomics was used to explore the protein expression changes and analyze the key proteomics profile in control and CLP group. The methodology was also used to identify the key proteins and pathways. S-AKI in vitro was established by treating the HK-2 cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Subsequently, the effect and mechanism of Cathepsin B (CTSB) in inducing apoptosis in HK-2 cells were observed and verified. Results: The renal injury scores, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and kidney injury molecule 1 were higher in septic mice than in non-septic mice. The proteomic analysis identified a total of 449 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). GO and KEGG analysis showed that DEPs were mostly enriched in lysosomal-related cell structures and pathways. CTSB and MAPK were identified as key proteins in S-AKI. Electron microscopy observed enlarged lysosomes, swelled and ruptured mitochondria, and cytoplasmic vacuolization in CLP group. TUNEL staining and CTSB activity test showed that the apoptosis and CTSB activity were higher in CLP group than in control group. In HK-2 cell injury model, the CTSB activity and mRNA expression were increased in LPS-treated cells. Acridine orange staining showed that LPS caused lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP). CA074 as an inhibitor of CTSB could effectively inhibit CTSB activity. CCK8 and Annexin V/PI staining results indicated that CA074 reversed LPS-induced apoptosis of HK-2 cells. The JC-1 and western blot results showed that LPS inhibited mitochondrial membrane potential and activated mitochondrial apoptosis pathway, which could be reversed by CA074. Conclusions: LMP and CTSB contribute to pathogenesis of S-AKI. LPS treatment induced HK-2 cell injury by activating mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Inhibition of CTSB might be a new therapeutic strategy to alleviate sepsis-induced acute kidney injury.
PXD033726	36715318	A method to enrich polypeptidyl-tRNAs to capture snapshots of translation in the cell. 	A method to enrich polypeptidyl-tRNAs to capture snapshots of translation in the cell	nascent polypeptide chain, polypeptidyl-tRNA, ribosome, translation	Life depends on proteins, which all exist in nascent states when the growing polypeptide chain is covalently attached to a tRNA within the ribosome. Although the nascent chains, i.e. polypeptidyl-tRNAs (pep-tRNAs), are considered as merely transient intermediates during protein synthesis, recent advances have revealed that they are directly involved in a variety of cell functions, such as gene expression control. An increasing appreciation for fine-tuning at translational levels demands a general method to handle the pep-tRNAs on a large scale. Here, we developed a method termed peptidyl-tRNA enrichment using organic extraction and silica adsorption (PETEOS), and then identify their polypeptide moieties by mass spectrometry. As a proof-of-concept experiment using Escherichia coli, we identified ~800 proteins derived from the pep-tRNAs, which were markedly biased towards the N-termini in the proteins, reflecting that PETEOS captured the intermediate pep-tRNA population during translation. Furthermore, we observed the changes in the pep-tRNA set in response to heat shock or antibiotic treatments. In summary, PETEOS will complement conventional methods to investigate nascent chains in the cell.
PXD038797	36715683	The phospholipid flippase ATP9A enhances macropinocytosis to promote nutrient starvation tolerance in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Identification of ATP9A interactors in 293T cell line	ATP9A	Macropinocytosis is an effective strategy to mitigate nutrient starvation. It can fuel cancer cell growth in nutrient-limited conditions. However, whether and how macropinocytosis contributes to the rapid proliferation of hepatocellular carcinoma cells, which frequently experience an inadequate nutrient supply, remains unclear. Here, we demonstrated that nutrient starvation strongly induced macropinocytosis in some hepatocellular carcinoma cells. It allowed the cells to acquire extracellular nutrients and supported their energy supply to maintain rapid proliferation. Furthermore, we found that the phospholipid flippase ATP9A was critical for regulating macropinocytosis in hepatocellular carcinoma cells and that high ATP9A levels predicted a poor outcome for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. ATP9A interacted with ATP6V1A and facilitated its transport to the plasma membrane, which promoted plasma membrane cholesterol accumulation and drove RAC1-dependent macropinocytosis. Macropinocytosis inhibitors significantly suppressed the energy supply and proliferation of hepatocellular carcinoma cells characterised by high ATP9A expression under nutrient-limited conditions. These results have revealed a novel mechanism that overcomes nutrient starvation in hepatocellular carcinoma cells and have identified the key regulator of macropinocytosis in hepatocellular carcinoma. (c) 2023 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD028785	36717589	Salmonella effector SopB reorganizes cytoskeletal vimentin to maintain replication vacuoles for efficient infection. 	Salmonella effector SopB reorganizes cytoskeletal vimentin to maintain replication vacuoles for efficient infection	LC-MS, S.Tm, vimentin	A variety of intracellular bacteria modulate the host cytoskeleton to establish subcellular niches for replication. However, the role of intermediate filaments, which are crucial for mechanical strength and resilience of the cell, and in bacterial vacuole preservation remains unclear. Here, we show that Salmonella effector SopB reorganizes the vimentin network to form cage-like structures that surround Salmonella-containing vacuoles (SCVs). Genetic removal of vimentin markedly disrupts SCV organization, significantly reduces bacterial replication and cell death. Mechanistically, SopB uses its N-terminal Cdc42-binding domain to interact with and activate Cdc42 GTPase, which in turn recruits vimentin around SCVs. A high-content imaging-based screening identified that MEK1/2 inhibition led to vimentin dispersion. Our work therefore elucidates the signaling axis SopB-Cdc42-MEK1/2 as mobilizing host vimentin to maintain concrete SCVs and identifies a mechanism contributing to Salmonella replication. Importantly, Trametinib, a clinically-approved MEK1/2 inhibitor identified in the screen, displayed significant anti-infection efficacy against Salmonella both in vitro and in vivo, and may provide a therapeutic option for treating drug-tolerant salmonellosis.
PXD029869	36718960	Identification of RNA helicases with unwinding activity on angiogenin-processed tRNAs. 	Identification of RNA helicases that mediate processing of tRNAs into distinct tRNA fragments by LC-MS/MS.	DDX3X, DDX5X, RNA helicase enzymes, tRNA fragments, tsRNA	Stress-induced tRNA fragmentation upon environmental insult is a conserved cellular process catalysed by endonucleolytic activities targeting mature tRNAs. The resulting tRNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs) have been implicated in various biological processes that impact cell-to-cell signalling, cell survival as well as gene expression regulation during embryonic development. However, how endonuclease-targeted tRNAs give rise to individual and potentially biologically active tsRNAs remains poorly understood. Here, we report on the in vivo identification of proteins associated with stress-induced tsRNAs-containing protein complexes, which, together with a 'tracer tRNA' assay, were used to uncover enzymatic activities that can bind and process specific endonuclease-targeted tRNAs in vitro. Among those, we identified conserved ATP-dependent RNA helicases which can robustly separate tRNAs with endonuclease-mediated 'nicks' in their anticodon loops. These findings shed light on the existence of cellular pathways dedicated to producing individual tsRNAs after stress-induced tRNA hydrolysis, which adds to our understanding as to how tRNA fragmentation and the resulting tsRNAs might exert physiological impact.
PXD032900	36719185	Impaired iron recycling from erythrocytes is an early hallmark of aging. 	Impaired iron recycling from erythrocytes is an early hallmark of aging	ferritin, ferroportin, hepcidin, iron-recycling, proteostasis	Aging affects iron homeostasis, as evidenced by tissue iron loading and anemia in the elderly. Iron needs in mammals are met primarily by iron recycling from senescent red blood cells (RBCs), a task chiefly accomplished by splenic red pulp macrophages (RPMs) via erythrophagocytosis. Given that RPMs continuously process iron, their cellular functions might be susceptible to age-dependent decline, a possibility that has been unexplored to date. Here, we found that 10- to 11-month-old female mice exhibit iron loading in RPMs, largely attributable to a drop in iron exporter ferroportin, which diminishes their erythrophagocytosis capacity and lysosomal activity. Furthermore, we identified a loss of RPMs during aging, underlain by the combination of proteotoxic stress and iron-dependent cell death resembling ferroptosis. These impairments lead to the retention of senescent hemolytic RBCs in the spleen, and the formation of undegradable iron- and heme-rich extracellular protein aggregates, likely derived from ferroptotic RPMs. We further found that feeding mice an iron-reduced diet alleviates iron accumulation in RPMs, enhances their ability to clear erythrocytes, and reduces damage. Consequently, this diet ameliorates hemolysis of splenic RBCs and reduces the burden of protein aggregates, mildly increasing serum iron availability in aging mice. Taken together, we identified RPM collapse as an early hallmark of aging and demonstrated that dietary iron reduction improves iron turnover efficacy.
PXD035354	36719746	Dissociation of sodium-chloride cotransporter expression and blood pressure during chronic high dietary potassium supplementation. 	Effects of the differential K+ diets on mouse kidney cortex tissue	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), kidney, potassium	Dietary potassium (K+) supplementation is associated with a lowering effect in blood pressure (BP), but not all studies agree. Here, we examined the effects of short- and long-term K+ supplementation on BP in mice, whether differences depend on the accompanying anion or the sodium (Na+) intake and molecular alterations in the kidney that may underlie BP changes. Relative to the control diet, BP was higher in mice fed a high NaCl (1.57% Na+) diet for 7 weeks or fed a K+-free diet for 2 weeks. BP was highest on a K+-free/high NaCl diet. Commensurate with increased abundance and phosphorylation of the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride-cotransporter (NCC) on the K+-free/high NaCl diet, BP returned to normal with thiazides. Three weeks of a high K+ diet (5% K+) increased BP (predominantly during the night) independently of dietary Na+ or anion intake. Conversely, 4 days of KCl feeding reduced BP. Both feeding periods resulted in lower NCC levels but in increased levels of cleaved (active) alpha and gamma subunits of the epithelial Na+ channel ENaC. The elevated BP after chronic K+ feeding was reduced by amiloride but not thiazide. Our results suggest that dietary K+ has an optimal threshold where it may be most effective for cardiovascular health.
PXD039200	36720221	An affinity-directed phosphatase, AdPhosphatase, system for targeted protein dephosphorylation. 	An affinity-directed phosphatase (AdPhosphatase) system  for targeted protein dephosphorylation	AdPhosphatase, Affinity-directed phosphatase, FAM83D, Nanobody, PPP1CA, PPP2CA, Targeted dephosphorylation, ULK1	Reversible protein phosphorylation, catalyzed by protein kinases and phosphatases, is a fundamental process that controls protein function and intracellular signaling. Failure of phospho-control accounts for many human diseases. While a kinase phosphorylates multiple substrates, a substrate is often phosphorylated by multiple kinases. This renders phospho-control at the substrate level challenging, as it requires inhibition of multiple kinases, which would thus affect other kinase substrates. Here, we describe the development and application of the affinity-directed phosphatase (AdPhosphatase) system for targeted dephosphorylation of specific phospho-substrates. By deploying the Protein Phosphatase 1 or 2A catalytic subunits conjugated to an antigen-stabilized anti-GFP nanobody, we can promote the dephosphorylation of two independent phospho-proteins, FAM83D or ULK1, knocked in with GFP-tags using CRISPR-Cas9, with exquisite specificity. By redirecting protein phosphatases to neo-substrates through nanobody-mediated proximity, AdPhosphatase can alter the phospho-status and function of target proteins and thus, offers a new modality for potential drug discovery approaches.
PXD038732	36720864	Proteogenomics of diffuse gliomas reveal molecular subtypes associated with specific therapeutic targets and immune-evasion mechanisms. 	Proteogenomics of diffuse gliomas reveal molecular subtypes associated with specific therapeutic targets and immune-evasion mechanisms	Diffuse gliomas, Molecular subtypes, Proteogenomics	Diffuse gliomas are devastating brain tumors. Here, we perform a proteogenomic profiling of 213 retrospectively collected glioma tumors. Proteogenomic analysis reveals the downstream biological events leading by EGFR-, IDH1-, TP53-mutations. The comparative analysis illustrates the distinctive features of GBMs and LGGs, indicating CDK2 inhibitor might serve as a promising drug target for GBMs. Further proteogenomic integrative analysis combined with functional experiments highlight the cis-effect of EGFR alterations might lead to glioma tumor cell proliferation through ERK5 medicates nucleotide synthesis process. Proteome-based stratification of gliomas defines 3 proteomic subgroups (S-Ne, S-Pf, S-Im), which could serve as a complement to WHO subtypes, and would provide the essential framework for the utilization of specific targeted therapies for particular glioma subtypes. Immune clustering identifies three immune subtypes with distinctive immune cell types. Further analysis reveals higher EGFR alteration frequencies accounts for elevation of immune check point protein: PD-L1 and CD70 in T-cell infiltrated tumors.
PXD037243	36721249	Novel insights into the somatic proteome of Strongyloides stercoralis infective third-stage larvae. 	Novel insights into Strongyloides stercoralis third stage infective larvae proteome	Strongyloides stercoralis, Strongyloidiasis, diagnosis, feces, larvae	BACKGROUND: Strongyloidiasis is a neglected tropical disease affecting an estimated 600 million people, particularly in resource-limited settings. The infection can persist lifelong due to unusual auto-infective cycle of Strongyloides stercoralis. The lack of a diagnostic gold standard and limited knowledge of the mechanisms underpinning this chronic infection are key issues in disease management. To date, only a few proteomics studies have been conducted to elucidate the molecular mechanisms associated with Strongyloides parasitism or to highlight novel immunological markers, with the result that our knowledge of S. stercoralis proteome remains limited. This study aims at expanding the characterization of S. stercoralis infective larvae (iL3) in order to further explore the mechanisms of parasitism and to highlight possible novel targets for serodiagnosis. METHODS: iL3 obtained from an infected subject were analysed by high-throughput tandem mass spectrometry. To achieve a more comprehensive characterization of the iL3 proteome we analysed the experimental dataset using an automatic search strategy combined with manual annotation, which included gene ontology (GO) analysis, InterPro annotation, assessment of the homology with Homo sapiens and other pathogens of clinical importance and B-cell epitope prediction. RESULTS: Our pipeline identified 430 S. stercoralis proteins, 187 (43%) of which were uncharacterized. Oxidoreductases and peptidases were amongst the most represented protein categories, as highlighted by molecular function GO analyses, while membrane and mitochondrial proteins were the most represented cellular component GO categories. A high proportion of proteins bearing the CAP, SCP or thioredoxin domain or belonging to cysteine-rich secretory, transthyretin-like or peptidase protein families were also identified. Additionally, we highlighted nine proteins displaying low homology with H. sapiens or other related pathogens and bearing amino acid sequences with immunogenic properties. CONCLUSIONS: Our comprehensive description and annotation of the S. stercoralis iL3 proteome contribute to expanding the 'omics characterization of this parasite and provide experimental evidence on the most represented proteins associated with S. stercoralis parasitism, as inferred from genomic and transcriptomic data. Moreover, novel candidate immunogenic proteins to be evaluated as novel serological diagnostic markers are highlighted.
PXD037158	36721988	O-fucosylation of thrombospondin type I repeats is dispensable for trafficking thrombospondin 1 to platelet secretory granules. 	O-fucosylation of Thrombospondin Type I Repeats on Thrombospondin 1 is dispensable for trafficking to Platelets	POFUT2/O-fucosylation/C-mannosylation/Thrombospondin 1/protein trafficking	Thrombospondin 1 (THBS1) is a secreted extracellular matrix glycoprotein that regulates a variety of cellular and physiological processes. THBS1's diverse functions are attributed to interactions between the modular domains of THBS1 with an array of proteins found in the extracellular matrix. THBS1's three Thrombospondin type 1 repeats (TSRs) are modified with O-linked glucose-fucose disaccharide and C-mannose. It is unknown whether these modifications impact trafficking and/or function of THBS1 in vivo. The O-fucose is added by Protein O-fucosyltransferase 2 (POFUT2) and is sequentially extended to the disaccharide by beta3glucosyltransferase (B3GLCT). The C-mannose is added by one or more of four C-mannosyltransferases. O-fucosylation by POFUT2/B3GLCT in the endoplasmic reticulum has been proposed to play a role in quality control by locking TSR domains into their three-dimensional fold, allowing for proper secretion of many O-fucosylated substrates. Prior studies showed the siRNA knockdown of POFUT2 in HEK293T cells blocked secretion of TSRs 1-3 from THBS1. Here we demonstrated that secretion of THBS1 TSRs 1-3 was not reduced by CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockout of POFUT2 in HEK293T cells and demonstrated that knockout of Pofut2 or B3glct in mice did not reduce the trafficking of endogenous THBS1 to secretory granules of platelets, a major source of THBS1. Additionally, we demonstrated that all three TSRs from platelet THBS1 were highly C-mannosylated, which has been shown to stabilize TSRs in vitro. Combined, these results suggested that POFUT2 substrates with TSRs that are also modified by C-mannose may be less susceptible to trafficking defects resulting from the loss of the glucose-fucose disaccharide.
PXD037522	36723430	Recognition of galactose by a scaffold protein recruits a transcriptional activator for the GAL regulon induction in Candida albicans. 	Candida albicans NDT80 Family protein Rep1 mass spectrometry	Rep1 galactose mass spectrometry	The GAL pathway of yeasts has long served as a model system for understanding of how regulatory mode of eukaryotic metabolic pathways evolves. While Gal4 mode has been well-characterized in Saccharomycetaceae clade, little is known about the regulation of the GAL pathway in other yeasts. Here, we find that Rep1, a Ndt80-like family transcription factor, serves as a galactose sensor in the commensal-pathogenic fungus Candida albicans. It is presented at the GAL gene promoters independent of the presence of galactose. Rep1 recognizes galactose via a direct physical interaction. The net result of this interaction is the recruitment of a transcriptional activator Cga1 (Candida galactose gene activator, orf19.4959) and transcription of the GAL genes proceeds. Rep1 and Cga1 are conserved across the CTG species. Rep1 itself does not possess transcriptional activity. Instead, it provides a scaffold to recruit different factors for transcriptional regulation. Rep1-Cga1 mode of regulation represents a new example of network rewiring in fungi, which provides insight into how C. albicans evolves transcriptional programs to colonize diverse host niches.
PXD023841	36723483	SUMO Proteomics Analyses Identify Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT-Mediated Regulatory Networks Involved in Cell Cycle and Cell Proliferation. 	SUMO Proteomics Analyses Identify Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT-Mediated Regulatory Networks Involved in Cell Cycle and Cell Proliferation	HEK293 SUMO3m LC-MS/MS PIAS SUMO E3 ligase proteomics	Protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) proteins are E3 SUMO ligases playing important roles in protein stability and signaling transduction pathways. PIAS proteins are overexpressed in the triple-negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231, and PIAS knockout (KO) results in a reduction in cell proliferation and cell arrest in the S phase. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying PIAS functions in cell proliferation and cell cycle remain largely unknown. Here, we used quantitative SUMO proteomics to explore the regulatory role of PIAS SUMO E3 ligases upon CRISPR/Cas9 KO of individual PIAS. A total of 1422 sites were identified, and around 10% of SUMO sites were regulated following KO of one or more PIAS genes. We identified protein substrates that were either specific to individual PIAS ligase or regulated by several PIAS ligases. Ki-67 and TOP2A, which are involved in cell proliferation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, are SUMOylated at several lysine residues by all PIAS ligases, suggesting a level of redundancy between these proteins. Confocal microscopy and biochemical experiments revealed that SUMOylation regulated TOP2A protein stability, while this modification is involved in the recruitment of Ki-67 nucleolar proteins containing the SUMO interacting motif. These results provide novel insights into both the redundant and specific regulatory mechanisms of cell proliferation and cell cycle mediated by PIAS SUMO E3 ligases.
PXD036910	36724070	ASAP-Automated Sonication-Free Acid-Assisted Proteomes-from Cells and FFPE Tissues. 	ASAP - Automated Sonication free Acid assisted Proteomes from cells & FFPE tissues	FFPE, Trifluoroacetic acid, clinical proteomics, pediatric tumors, sonication-free	Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues are an invaluable resource for retrospective studies, but protein extraction and subsequent sample processing steps have been shown to be challenging for mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. Streamlined high-throughput sample preparation workflows are essential for efficient peptide extraction from complex clinical specimens such as fresh frozen tissues or FFPE. Overall, proteome analysis has gained significant improvements in the instrumentation, acquisition methods, sample preparation workflows, and analysis pipelines, yet even the most recent FFPE workflows remain complex and are not readily scalable. Here, we present an optimized workflow for automated sonication-free acid-assisted proteome (ASAP) extraction from FFPE sections. ASAP enables efficient protein extraction from FFPE specimens, achieving similar proteome coverage as established methods using expensive sonicators, resulting in reduced sample processing time. The broad applicability of ASAP on archived pediatric tumor FFPE specimens resulted in high-quality data with increased proteome coverage and quantitative reproducibility. Our study demonstrates the practicality and superiority of the ASAP workflow as a streamlined, time- and cost-effective pipeline for high-throughput FFPE proteomics of clinical specimens.
PXD035261	36724550	Tumor decellularization reveals proteomic and mechanical characteristics of the extracellular matrix of primary liver cancer. 	Tumor decellularization reveals proteomic and mechanical characteristics of the extracellular matrix of primary liver cancer	cholangiocarcinoma, decellularization, extracellular matrix, hepatocellular carcinoma, primary liver cancer	Tumor initiation and progression are critically dependent on interaction of cancer cells with their cellular and extracellular microenvironment. Alterations in the composition, integrity, and mechanical properties of the extracellular matrix (ECM) dictate tumor processes including cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Also in primary liver cancer, consisting of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), the dysregulation of the extracellular environment by liver fibrosis and tumor desmoplasia is pertinent. Yet, the exact changes occurring in liver cancer ECM remain uncharacterized and underlying tumor-promoting mechanisms remain largely unknown. Herein, an integrative molecular and mechanical approach is used to extensively characterize the ECM of HCC and CCA tumors by utilizing an optimized decellularization technique. We identified a myriad of proteins in both tumor and adjacent liver tissue, uncovering distinct malignancy-related ECM signatures. The resolution of this approach unveiled additional ECM-related proteins compared to large liver cancer transcriptomic datasets. The differences in ECM protein composition resulted in divergent mechanical properties on a macro- and micro-scale that are tumor-type specific. Furthermore, the decellularized tumor ECM was employed to create a tumor-specific hydrogel that supports patient-derived tumor organoids, which provides a new avenue for personalized medicine applications. Taken together, this study contributes to a better understanding of alterations to composition, stiffness, and collagen alignment of the tumor ECM that occur during liver cancer development.
PXD033283	36724603	Impact of P-glycoprotein on intracellular drug concentration in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and K562 cells. 	Impact of P-glycoprotein on intracellular drug concentration in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and K562 cells	Lymphocyte, P-gp, PBMC	P-glycoprotein (P-gp) expression in lymphocytes is variable and 2-fold higher in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with treatment resistance than in healthy subjects. To date the information on P-gp-mediated drug interaction in lymphocyte is limited. We analyzed the importance on P-gp in lymphocytes using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) together with K562, K562/Adr, and K562/Vin cells, which have various P-gp levels, as cell models, and dexamethasone, nintedanib and apafant as weak to good P-gp substrates. P-gp levels in K562, K562/Adr, and K562/Vin cells were 0.3-, 20-, and 106-fold of healthy PBMCs, respectively. While cell accumulation of apafant and nintedanib decreased in all cells with increasing P-gp levels, dexamethasone accumulation in K562/Adr was comparable to that in healthy PBMCs and K562 cells. Cell accumulations of substrates in cells with low P-gp expression were not significantly changed by the P-gp inhibitors at therapeutic concentrations. However, accumulation increased to 1.4-fold at highest in K562/Adr cells with higher P-gp expression than in PBMCs of the RA patients. These results suggest P-gp controls the cellular concentration of P-gp substrates in PBMCs or K562 cells but cellular concentration of a weak P-gp substrate would not be apparently affected even in cells with a sufficient P-gp expression.
PXD039232	36725203	Quantitative N-Glycomic and N-Glycoproteomic Profiling of Peach [Prunus persica (L.) Batsch] during Fruit Ripening. 	Quantitative N-Glycoproteomic Profiling of Peach during Fruit Ripening	N-glycoproteomic, Peach, fruit ripening	Being part of the human diet, peach is an important fruit consumed worldwide. In the present study, a systematic first insight into the N-glycosylation of peach fruit during ripening was provided. First, N-glycome by reactive matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry indicated that 6 of 24 N-glycans of peach were differentially expressed. Second, a comparative N-glycoproteome was characterized via (18)O-tagged N-glycosylation site labeling followed by nano-liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-ESI-MS/MS). Totally 1464 N-glycosites on 881 N-glycoproteins were identified, among which 291 N-glycosites on 237 N-glycoproteins were expressed differentially with a fold change value of 1.5 or 0.67. The enrichment analysis of GO and KEGG revealed that four pathways including other glycan degradation, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism, and protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum were mainly enriched, in which several important N-glycoproteins with dynamic change during fruit ripening were further screened out. Our findings on a large scale for N-glycosylation analysis of peach fruit during ripening may provide new molecular insights for comprehending N-glycoprotein functions, which should be of great interest to both glycobiologists and analytical chemists.
PXD039403	36725983	RNA helicase DDX3X modulates herpes simplex virus 1 nuclear egress. 	RNA Helicase DDX3X Modulates Herpes Simplex Virus 1 Nuclear Egress	DDX, DDX3, HSV, NEC, UL31, US3, helicase, herpes, herpesvirus, host-pathogen interaction	DDX3X is a mammalian RNA helicase that regulates RNA metabolism, cancers, innate immunity and several RNA viruses. We discovered that herpes simplex virus 1, a nuclear DNA replicating virus, redirects DDX3X to the nuclear envelope where it surprisingly modulates the exit of newly assembled viral particles. DDX3X depletion also leads to an accumulation of virions in intranuclear herniations. Mechanistically, we show that DDX3X physically and functionally interacts with the virally encoded nuclear egress complex at the inner nuclear membrane. DDX3X also binds to and stimulates the incorporation in mature particles of pUs3, a herpes kinase that promotes viral nuclear release across the outer nuclear membrane. Overall, the data highlights two unexpected roles for an RNA helicase during the passage of herpes simplex viral particles through the nuclear envelope. This reveals a highly complex interaction between DDX3X and viruses and provides new opportunities to target viral propagation.
PXD035611	36726689	Chronic exposure to low-level lipopolysaccharide dampens influenza-mediated inflammatory response via A20 and PPAR network. 	Chronic exposure to low-level lipopolysaccharide dampens influenza-mediated inflammatory response via A20 and PPAR network	A20, IAV, NF-B, NLRP3 inflammasome, PPAR	Influenza A virus (IAV) infection leads to severe inflammation, and while epithelial-driven inflammatory responses occur via activation of NF-kappaB, the factors that modulate inflammation, particularly the negative regulators are less well-defined. In this study we show that A20 is a crucial molecular switch that dampens IAV-induced inflammatory responses. Chronic exposure to low-dose LPS environment can restrict this excessive inflammation. The mechanisms that this environment provides to suppress inflammation remain elusive. Here, our evidences show that chronic exposure to low-dose LPS suppressed IAV infection or LPS stimulation-induced inflammation in vitro and in vivo. Chronic low-dose LPS environment increases A20 expression, which in turn positively regulates PPAR-alpha and -gamma, thus dampens the NF-kappaB signaling pathway and NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Knockout of A20 abolished the inhibitory effect on inflammation. Thus, A20 and its induced PPAR-alpha and -gamma play a key role in suppressing excessive inflammatory responses in the chronic low-dose LPS environment.
PXD036353	36727479	Ribosomes lacking bS21 gain function to regulate protein synthesis in Flavobacterium johnsoniae. 	Ribosomes lacking bS21 gain function to regulate protein synthesis in Flavobacterium johnsoniae	Flavobacterium johnsoniae, LCMSMS	Ribosomes of Bacteroidia (formerly Bacteroidetes) fail to recognize Shine-Dalgarno (SD) sequences even though they harbor the anti-SD (ASD) of 16S rRNA. Inhibition of SD-ASD pairing is due to sequestration of the 3' tail of 16S rRNA in a pocket formed by bS21, bS18, and bS6 on the 30S platform. Interestingly, in many Flavobacteriales, the gene encoding bS21, rpsU, contains an extended SD sequence. In this work, we present genetic and biochemical evidence that bS21 synthesis in Flavobacterium johnsoniae is autoregulated via a subpopulation of ribosomes that specifically lack bS21. Mutation or depletion of bS21 in the cell increases translation of reporters with strong SD sequences, such as rpsU'-gfp, but has no effect on other reporters. Purified ribosomes lacking bS21 (or its C-terminal region) exhibit higher rates of initiation on rpsU mRNA and lower rates of initiation on other (SD-less) mRNAs than control ribosomes. The mechanism of autoregulation depends on extensive pairing between mRNA and 16S rRNA, and exceptionally strong SD sequences, with predicted pairing free energies of < -13 kcal/mol, are characteristic of rpsU across the Bacteroidota. This work uncovers a clear example of specialized ribosomes in bacteria.
PXD036260	36730645	Shear Stress Markedly Alters the Proteomic Response to Hypoxia in Human Pulmonary Endothelial Cells. 	Physiological shear stress markedly alters the proteomic response to hypoxia in human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells	COPD, Human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells, hypoxia, shear stress	Blood flow produces shear stress that homeostatically regulates the phenotype of pulmonary endothelial cells, exerting antiinflammatory and antithrombotic actions and maintaining normal barrier function. Hypoxia due to diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), causes vasoconstriction, increased vascular resistance, and pulmonary hypertension. Hypoxia-induced changes in endothelial function play a central role in the development of pulmonary hypertension. However, the interactive effects of hypoxia and shear stress on the pulmonary endothelial phenotype have not been studied. Human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells were cultured in normoxia or hypoxia while subjected to physiological shear stress or in static conditions. Unbiased proteomics was used to identify hypoxia-induced changes in protein expression. Using publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets, differences in gene expression between the alveolar endothelial cells from COPD and healthy lungs were identified. Sixty proteins were identified whose expression changed in response to hypoxia in conditions of physiological shear stress but not in static conditions. These included proteins that are crucial for endothelial homeostasis (e.g., JAM-A [junctional adhesion molecule A], ERG [ETS transcription factor ERG]) or implicated in pulmonary hypertension (e.g., thrombospondin-1). Fifty-five of these 60 have not been previously implicated in the development of hypoxic lung diseases. mRNA for 5 of the 60 (ERG, MCRIP1 [MAPK regulated corepressor interacting protein 1], EIF4A2 [eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A2], HSP90AA1 [heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1], and DNAJA1 [DnaJ Hsp40 (heat shock protein family) member A1]) showed similar changes in the alveolar endothelial cells of COPD compared with healthy lungs in females but not in males. These data show that the proteomic responses of the pulmonary microvascular endothelium to hypoxia are significantly altered by shear stress and suggest that these shear-hypoxia interactions are important in the development of hypoxic pulmonary vascular disease.
PXD039285	36730729	Colon Adenocarcinoma Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Dysregulation in Key Cancer Signaling Pathways and a Candidate Protein Marker Panel. 	Quantitative proteomic analaysis of colorectal cancer	Colorectal cancer, Orbitrap fusion, TMT, tumor tissue	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is reportedly the second leading cause of cancer death worldwide. By the end of the decade, there will likely be more than one million fatalities worldwide from this cancer, with an estimated 2.2 million additional cases. We need new ways of thinking about cancer research. One approach is to deploy systems science using quantitative proteomics to obtain postgenomic and functional insights into cancer. The present study compares the tissue proteome of CRC (n = 10) with the matched peritumoral controls (n = 10) in samples obtained from the Indian subcontinent. When compared with the controls, a list of 22 substantially altered protein candidates was identified, which were associated with the growth, survival, and metastasis of the tumor. A list of the unique peptides from top significant proteins, including olfactomedin-4, alanyl aminopeptidase, and grancalcin was further validated using a parallel reaction monitoring-based targeted proteomics approach. In addition, biological pathway analysis showed perturbation in key biological processes, including dysregulation in purine metabolism, MYC targets in cancer, DNA repair, and replication, and leukocyte transendothelial migration, among others. The protein panel reported herein is also shown to be dysregulated in CRC and warrants further research toward understanding pathobiology, diagnostics, and therapeutics development in CRC.
PXD031127	36731020	Integrative Proteomic and Pharmacological Analysis of Colon Cancer Reveals the Classical Lipogenic Pathway with Prognostic and Therapeutic Opportunities. 	De novo lipogenesis as a therapeutic target	Orbitrap fusion, PRM, colorectal cancer	Despite recent advancements, the high mortality rate remains a concern in colon cancer (CAC). Identification of therapeutic markers could prove to be a great asset in CAC management. Multiple studies have reported hyperactivation of de novo lipogenesis (DNL), but its association with the pathology is unclear. This study aims to establish the importance as well as the prognostic and therapeutic potential of DNL in CAC. The key lipogenic enzymes fatty acid synthase along with ATP citrate lyase were quantified using an LC-MS/MS-based targeted proteomics approach in the samples along with the matched controls. The potential capacity of the proteins to distinguish between the tumor and controls was demonstrated using random forest-based class prediction analysis using the peptide intensities. Furthermore, in-depth proteomics of DNL inhibition in the CAC cell line revealed the significance of the pathway in proliferation and metastasis. DNL inhibition affected the major signaling pathways, including DNA repair, PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, membrane trafficking, proteasome, etc. The study revealed the upregulation of 26S proteasome machinery as a result of the treatment with subsequent induction of apoptosis. Again, in silico molecular docking-based drug repurposing was performed to find potential drug candidates. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that blocking DNL could be explored as a therapeutic option in CAC treatment.
PXD036149	36731470	Structural basis of a transcription pre-initiation complex on a divergent promoter. 	Structure of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mediator-RNA polymerase II pre-initiation complex for divergent transcription	Mediator, RNA polymerase II, UAS, activator, divergent transcription, enhancer, initiation, transcription	Most eukaryotic promoter regions are divergently transcribed. As the RNA polymerase II pre-initiation complex (PIC) is intrinsically asymmetric and responsible for transcription in a single direction, it is unknown how divergent transcription arises. Here, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mediator complexed with a PIC (Med-PIC) was assembled on a divergent promoter and analyzed by cryoelectron microscopy. The structure reveals two distinct Med-PICs forming a dimer through the Mediator tail module, induced by a homodimeric activator protein localized near the dimerization interface. The tail dimer is associated with ~80-bp upstream DNA, such that two flanking core promoter regions are positioned and oriented in a suitable form for PIC assembly in opposite directions. Also, cryoelectron tomography visualized the progress of the PIC assembly on the two core promoter regions, providing direct evidence for the role of the Med-PIC dimer in divergent transcription.
PXD039542	36732506	G9a/GLP inhibition during ex vivo lymphocyte expansion increases in vivo cytotoxicity of engineered T cells against hepatocellular carcinoma. 	G9a/GLP inhibition during ex vivo lymphocyte expansion increases in vivo cytotoxicity of engineered TCR-T cells against hepatocellular carcinoma	G9a, T-cells, hepatocellular carcinoma, immunotherapy	Engineered T cells transiently expressing tumor-targeting receptors are an attractive form of engineered T cell therapy as they carry no risk of insertional mutagenesis or long-term adverse side-effects. However, multiple rounds of treatment are often required, increasing patient discomfort and cost. To mitigate this, we sought to improve the antitumor activity of transient engineered T cells by screening a panel of small molecules targeting epigenetic regulators for their effect on T cell cytotoxicity. Using a model for engineered T cells targetting hepatocellular carcinoma, we find that short-term inhibition of G9a/GLP increases T cell antitumor activity in in vitro models and an orthotopic mouse model. G9a/GLP inhibition increases granzyme expression without terminal T cell differentiation or exhaustion and results in specific changes in expression of genes and proteins involved in pro-inflammatory pathways, T cell activation and cytotoxicity.
PXD037428	36732562	Proteogenomics decodes the evolution of human ipsilateral breast cancer. 	DIA MS analysis of primary breast cancers with no recurrence	DIA, breast cancer	Ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) is a clinically important event, where an isolated in-breast recurrence is a potentially curable event but associated with an increased risk of distant metastasis and breast cancer death. It remains unclear if IBTRs are associated with molecular changes that can be explored as a resource for precision medicine strategies. Here, we employed proteogenomics to analyze a cohort of 27 primary breast cancers and their matched IBTRs to define proteogenomic determinants of molecular tumor evolution. Our analyses revealed a relationship between hormonal receptors status and proliferation levels resulting in the gain of somatic mutations and copy number. This in turn re-programmed the transcriptome and proteome towards a highly replicating and genomically unstable IBTRs, possibly enhanced by APOBEC3B. In order to investigate the origins of IBTRs, a second analysis that included primaries with no recurrence pinpointed proliferation and immune infiltration as predictive of IBTR. In conclusion, our study shows that breast tumors evolve into different IBTRs depending on hormonal status and proliferation and that immune cell infiltration and Ki-67 are significantly elevated in primary tumors that develop IBTR. These results can serve as a starting point to explore markers to predict IBTR formation and stratify patients for adjuvant therapy.
PXD038309	36732619	3-Mercaptopyruvate sulfur transferase is a protein persulfidase. 	3-Mercaptopyruvate sulfur transferase is a protein persulfidase	MPST, S-persulfidation, cytoprotection, post-translational modification, protein persulfidation	Protein S-persulfidation (P-SSH) is recognized as a common posttranslational modification. It occurs under basal conditions and is often observed to be elevated under stress conditions. However, the mechanism(s) by which proteins are persulfidated inside cells have remained unclear. Here we report that 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfur transferase (MPST) engages in direct protein-to-protein transpersulfidation reactions beyond its previously known protein substrates thioredoxin and MOCS3/Uba4, associated with H2S generation and transfer RNA thiolation, respectively. We observe that depletion of MPST in human cells lowers overall intracellular protein persulfidation levels and identify a subset of proteins whose persulfidation depends on MPST. The predicted involvement of these proteins in the adaptation to stress responses supports the notion that MPST-dependent protein persulfidation promotes cytoprotective functions. The observation of MPST-independent protein persulfidation suggests that other protein persulfidases remain to be identified.
PXD037540	36732657	Pien Tze Huang regulates phosphorylation of metabolic enzymes in mice of hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Pien Tze Huang Regulates Phosphorylation of Metabolic Enzymes in Mice of Hepatocellular Carcinoma	Pien Tze Huang, TMT and PRM (phospho)proteomics, mechanism	The Chinese medicine formula Pien Tze Huang (PZH) has been applied to the treatment of various diseases, the reported anti-tumor mechanisms included regulation of inflammation-associated cytokine secretion and cancer growth pathways. However, the potential influence of PZH on tumor metabolism remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the global effect of PZH on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) compared with the anti-tumor agent sorafenib based on tandem mass tag (TMT) label proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis in addition to parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) verification. It was observed that PZH could inhibit tumor weight by 59-69% in different concentrations. TMT proteomic studies indicated that fructose/mannose metabolism and glucagon signaling pathway in PZH group, and arachidonic acid metabolism and PPAR signaling pathway in sorafenib group, were significantly enriched, while glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathway was found to be enriched remarkably both in PZH and sorafenib groups in TMT phosphoproteomic study. PRM verification further indicated that both PZH and sorafenib could down-regulate phosphorylations of the glycolytic enzymes phosphofructokinases 1, fructose-bisphosphate Aldolase A, phosphoglycerate mutase 2 and lactate dehydrogenase A chain, while phosphorylations of long chain fatty acid CoA ligase in fatty acid activation and acetyl-coenzyme A synthetase in glycolysis were significantly inhibited by PZH and sorafenib, respectively. This study proposed that PZH shared a similar anti-tumor mechanism of metabolic regulation to sorafenib, but differed in the regulation of some metabolic nodes. This is the first time to uncover the relationship between the anti-tumor effect of PZH and metabolic related enzymes, which distinguished from the known mechanisms of PZH. These data provided the potential molecular basis for PZH acting as a therapeutic drug for HCC, and offered cues of manipulation on Warburg effect under the treatment of PZH.
PXD034088	36734974	The termination of UHRF1-dependent PAF15 ubiquitin signaling is regulated by USP7 and ATAD5. 	MS data on PAF15 binding proteins	GST pull-down, Xenopus laevis	UHRF1-dependent ubiquitin signaling plays an integral role in the regulation of maintenance DNA methylation. UHRF1 catalyzes transient dual mono-ubiquitylation of PAF15 (PAF15Ub2), which regulates the localization and activation of DNMT1 at DNA methylation sites during DNA replication. Although the initiation of UHRF1-mediated PAF15 ubiquitin signaling has been relatively well characterized, the mechanisms underlying its termination and how they are coordinated with the completion of maintenance DNA methylation have not yet been clarified. This study shows that deubiquitylation by USP7 and unloading by ATAD5 (ELG1 in yeast) are pivotal processes for the removal of PAF15 from chromatin. On replicating chromatin, USP7 specifically interacts with PAF15Ub2 in a complex with DNMT1. USP7 depletion or inhibition of the interaction between USP7 and PAF15 results in abnormal accumulation of PAF15Ub2 on chromatin. Furthermore, we also find that the non-ubiquitylated form of PAF15 (PAF15Ub0) is removed from chromatin in an ATAD5-dependent manner. PAF15Ub2 was retained at high levels on chromatin when the catalytic activity of DNMT1 was inhibited, suggesting that the completion of maintenance DNA methylation is essential for the termination of UHRF1-mediated ubiquitin signaling. This finding provides a molecular understanding of how the maintenance DNA methylation machinery is disassembled at the end of the S phase.
PXD038114	36735645	Spatial analysis of the ancient proteome of archeological teeth using mass spectrometry imaging. 	Mass spectrometry imaging of ancient teeth proteomes	MALDI-MSI, diagenesis, palaeoproteomics, protein distribution, teeth	RATIONALE: Proteins extracted from archaeological bone and teeth are utilised for investigating the phylogeny of extinct and extant species, the biological sex and age of past individuals, as well as ancient health and physiology. However, variable preservation of proteins in archaeological materials represents a major challenge. METHODS: To better understand the spatial distribution of ancient proteins preserved within teeth, we applied matrix assisted laser desorption/ionisation mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI-MSI) for the first time to bioarchaeological samples to visualise the intensity of proteins in archaeological teeth thin sections. We specifically explored the spatial distribution of four proteins (collagen type I, of which the chains alpha-1 and alpha-2, alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein, haemoglobin subunit alpha and myosin light polypeptide 6). RESULTS: We successfully identified ancient proteins in archaeological teeth thin sections using mass spectrometry imaging. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD038114. However, we observed that peptides did not always follow our hypotheses for their spatial distribution, with distinct differences observed in the spatial distribution of several proteins, and occasionally between peptides of the same protein. CONCLUSIONS: While it remains unclear what causes these differences in protein intensity distribution within teeth, as revealed by MALDI-MSI in this study, we have demonstrated that MALDI-MSI can be successfully applied to mineralised bioarchaeological tissues to detect ancient peptides. In future applications, this technique could be particularly fruitful not just for understanding the preservation of proteins in a range of archaeological materials, but making informed decisions on sampling strategies and the targeting of key proteins of archaeological and biological interest.
PXD034820	36735774	Noncanonical splicing junctions between exons and transposable elements represent a source of immunogenic recurrent neo-antigens in patients with lung cancer. 	Non-canonical splicing junctions between exons and transposable elements represent a source of immunogenic recurrent neo-antigens in cancer patients	immunopeptidomics, neoantigen, non-canonical splicing, transposable element	Although most characterized tumor antigens are encoded by canonical transcripts (such as differentiation or tumor-testis antigens) or mutations (both driver and passenger mutations), recent results have shown that noncanonical transcripts including long noncoding RNAs and transposable elements (TEs) can also encode tumor-specific neo-antigens. Here, we investigate the presentation and immunogenicity of tumor antigens derived from noncanonical mRNA splicing events between coding exons and TEs. Comparing human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and diverse healthy tissues, we identified a subset of splicing junctions that is both tumor specific and shared across patients. We used HLA-I peptidomics to identify peptides encoded by tumor-specific junctions in primary NSCLC samples and lung tumor cell lines. Recurrent junction-encoded peptides were immunogenic in vitro, and CD8(+) T cells specific for junction-encoded epitopes were present in tumors and tumor-draining lymph nodes from patients with NSCLC. We conclude that noncanonical splicing junctions between exons and TEs represent a source of recurrent, immunogenic tumor-specific antigens in patients with NSCLC.
PXD032911	36735782	Spatial regulation of the glycocalyx component podocalyxin is a switch for prometastatic function. 	Spatial regulation of the glycocalyx component Podocalyxin is a switch for pro-metastatic function	Iinteractome, Invasion, Podocalyxin, Prostate cancer	The glycocalyx component and sialomucin podocalyxin (PODXL) is required for normal tissue development by promoting apical membranes to form between cells, triggering lumen formation. Elevated PODXL expression is also associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in multiple tumor types. How PODXL presents this duality in effect remains unknown. We identify an unexpected function of PODXL as a decoy receptor for galectin-3 (GAL3), whereby the PODXL-GAL3 interaction releases GAL3 repression of integrin-based invasion. Differential cortical targeting of PODXL, regulated by ubiquitination, is the molecular mechanism controlling alternate fates. Both PODXL high and low surface levels occur in parallel subpopulations within cancer cells. Orthotopic intraprostatic xenograft of PODXL-manipulated cells or those with different surface levels of PODXL define that this axis controls metastasis in vivo. Clinically, interplay between PODXL-GAL3 stratifies prostate cancer patients with poor outcome. Our studies define the molecular mechanisms and context in which PODXL promotes invasion and metastasis.
PXD037819	36736426	The deacylase sirtuin 5 reduces malonylation in nonmitochondrial metabolic pathways in diabetic kidney disease. 	Sirtuin 5 Reduces Malonylation in Non-mitochondrial Metabolic Pathways in Diabetic Kidney Disease	Diabetic kidney disease, metabolomics, nutrient utilization, sirtuin 5	Early diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is marked by dramatic metabolic reprogramming due to nutrient excess, mitochondrial dysfunction, and increased renal energy requirements from hyperfiltration. We hypothesized that changes in metabolism in DKD may be regulated by Sirtuin 5 (SIRT5), a deacylase that removes posttranslational modifications derived from acyl-coenzyme A and has been demonstrated to regulate numerous metabolic pathways. We found decreased malonylation in the kidney cortex (~80% proximal tubules) of type 2 diabetic BKS db/db mice, associated with increased SIRT5 expression. We performed a proteomics analysis of malonylated peptides and found that proteins with significantly decreased malonylated lysines in the db/db cortex were enriched in nonmitochondrial metabolic pathways: glycolysis and peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation. To confirm relevance of these findings in human disease, we analyzed diabetic kidney transcriptomic data from a cohort of Southwestern American Indians, which revealed a tubulointerstitial-specific increase in Sirt5 expression. These data were further corroborated by immunofluorescence data of SIRT5 from nondiabetic and DKD cohorts. Furthermore, overexpression of SIRT5 in cultured human proximal tubules demonstrated increased aerobic glycolysis. Conversely, we observed reduced glycolysis with decreased SIRT5 expression. These findings suggest that SIRT5 may lead to differential nutrient partitioning and utilization in DKD. Taken together, our findings highlight a previously unrecognized role for SIRT5 in metabolic reprogramming in DKD.
PXD039424	36736630	Proteomic analysis of the mandibular glands from the Chinese crocodile lizard, Shinisaurus crocodilurus - Another venomous lizard? 	Proteomic analysis of the mandibular glands from the Chinese crocodile lizard, Shinisaurus crocodilurus - another venomous lizard?	Chinese crocodile lizard, Corucia zebrata, Shinisaurus crocodilurus, Solomon Island skink, mandibular gland, proteomic analysis.	Based on its phylogenetic relationship to monitor lizards (Varanidae), Gila monsters (Heloderma spp.), and the earless monitor Lanthanotus borneesis, the Chinese crocodile lizard, Shinisaurus crocodilurus, has been assigned to the Toxicofera clade, which comprises venomous reptiles. However, no data about composition and biological activities of its oral secretion have been reported. In the present study, a proteomic analysis of the mandibular gland of S. crocodilurus and, for comparison, of the herbivorous Solomon Island skink Corucia zebrata, was performed. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of the teeth from S. crocodilurus revealed a sharp ridge on the anterior surface, but no grooves, whereas those of C. zebrata possess a flattened crown with a pointed cusp. Proteomic analysis of their gland extracts provided no evidence of venom-derived peptides or proteins, strongly supporting the non-venomous character of these lizards. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD039424.
PXD035278	36737588	Enzyme expression kinetics by Escherichia coli during transition from rich to minimal media depends on proteome reserves. 	Enzyme expression kinetics by Escherichia coli during transition from rich to minimal media depends on proteome reserves	amino acid biosynthesis, coarse-grained theory, growth transition, ribosome biogenesis	Bacterial fitness depends on adaptability to changing environments. In rich growth medium, which is replete with amino acids, Escherichia coli primarily expresses protein synthesis machineries, which comprise ~40% of cellular proteins and are required for rapid growth. Upon transition to minimal medium, which lacks amino acids, biosynthetic enzymes are synthesized, eventually reaching ~15% of cellular proteins when growth fully resumes. We applied quantitative proteomics to analyse the timing of enzyme expression during such transitions, and established a simple positive relation between the onset time of enzyme synthesis and the fractional enzyme 'reserve' maintained by E. coli while growing in rich media. We devised and validated a coarse-grained kinetic model that quantitatively captures the enzyme recovery kinetics in different pathways, solely on the basis of proteomes immediately preceding the transition and well after its completion. Our model enables us to infer regulatory strategies underlying the 'as-needed' gene expression programme adopted by E. coli.
PXD039140	36737599	The E3 ligase RNF5 restricts SARS-CoV-2 replication by targeting its envelope protein for degradation. 	Proteins interacting with SARS-CoV-2 envelope	E protein, Interaction, SARS-CoV-2	The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a severe global health crisis; its structural protein envelope (E) is critical for viral entry, budding, production, and induction of pathology which makes it a potential target for therapeutics against COVID-19. Here, we find that the E3 ligase RNF5 interacts with and catalyzes ubiquitination of E on the 63rd lysine, leading to its degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). Importantly, RNF5-induced degradation of E inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication and the RNF5 pharmacological activator Analog-1 alleviates disease development in a mouse infection model. We also found that RNF5 is distinctively expressed in different age groups and in patients displaying different disease severity, which may be exploited as a prognostic marker for COVID-19. Furthermore, RNF5 recognized the E protein from various SARS-CoV-2 strains and SARS-CoV, suggesting that targeting RNF5 is a broad-spectrum antiviral strategy. Our findings provide novel insights into the role of UPS in antagonizing SARS-CoV-2 replication, which opens new avenues for therapeutic intervention to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
PXD031440	36737789	Establishment and characterization of canine mammary tumoroids for translational research. 	Establishment and characterization of a tumoroid biobank derived from dog patients' mammary tumors for translational research	biobank, breast cancer, dog patients, drug screening, tumoroid	BACKGROUND: Cancer heterogeneity is a main obstacle for the development of effective therapies, as its replication in in vitro preclinical models is challenging. Around 96% of developed drugs are estimated to fail from discovery to the clinical trial phase probably because of the unsuitability and unreliability of current preclinical models (Front Pharmacol 9:6, 2018; Nat Rev Cancer 8: 147-56, 2008) in replicating the overall biology of tumors, for instance the tumor microenvironment. Breast cancer is the most frequent cancer among women causing the greatest number of cancer-related deaths. Breast cancer can typically be modeled in vitro through the use of tumoroids; however, current approaches using mouse tumoroids fail to reproduce crucial aspect of human breast cancer, while access to human cells is limited and the focus of ethical concerns. New models of breast cancer, such as companion dogs, have emerged given the resemblance of developed spontaneous mammary tumors to human breast cancer in many clinical and molecular aspects; however, they have so far failed to replicate the tumor microenvironment. The present work aimed at developing a robust canine mammary tumor model in the form of tumoroids which recapitulate the tumor diversity and heterogeneity. RESULTS: We conducted a complete characterization of canine mammary tumoroids through histologic, molecular, and proteomic analysis, demonstrating their strong similarity to the primary tumor. We demonstrated that these tumoroids can be used as a drug screening model. In fact, we showed that paclitaxel, a human chemotherapeutic, could kill canine tumoroids with the same efficacy as human tumoroids with 0.1 to 1 muM of drug needed to kill 50% of the cells. Due to easy tissue availability, canine tumoroids can be produced at larger scale and cryopreserved to constitute a biobank. We have demonstrated that cryopreserved tumoroids keep the same histologic and molecular features (ER, PR, and HER2 expression) as fresh tumoroids. Furthermore, two cryopreservation techniques were compared from a proteomic point of view which showed that tumoroids made from frozen material allowed to maintain the same molecular diversity as from freshly dissociated tumor. CONCLUSIONS: These findings revealed that canine mammary tumoroids can be easily generated and may provide an adequate and more reliable preclinical model to investigate tumorigenesis mechanisms and develop new treatments for both veterinary and human medicine.
PXD038301	36738297	Sulfamate Acetamides as Self-Immolative Electrophiles for Covalent Ligand-Directed Release Chemistry. 	Sulfamate acetamides as self-immolative electrophiles for covalent ligand- directed release chemistry	IsoDTB, chemical probes	Electrophiles for covalent inhibitors that are suitable for in vivo administration are rare. While acrylamides are prevalent in FDA-approved covalent drugs, chloroacetamides are considered too reactive for such purposes. We report sulfamate-based electrophiles that maintain chloroacetamide-like geometry with tunable reactivity. In the context of the BTK inhibitor ibrutinib, sulfamate analogues showed low reactivity with comparable potency in protein labeling, in vitro, and cellular kinase activity assays and were effective in a mouse model of CLL. In a second example, we converted a chloroacetamide Pin1 inhibitor to a potent and selective sulfamate acetamide with improved buffer stability. Finally, we show that sulfamate acetamides can be used for covalent ligand-directed release (CoLDR) chemistry, both for the generation of "turn-on" probes as well as for traceless ligand-directed site-specific labeling of proteins. Taken together, this chemistry represents a promising addition to the list of electrophiles suitable for in vivo covalent targeting.
PXD038754	36738734	Diverse CMT2 neuropathies are linked to aberrant G3BP interactions in stress granules. 	Diverse CMT2 neuropathies are linked to aberrant G3BP interactions in stress granules	Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathies, genetic heterogeneity, motor neuron, stress granule	Complex diseases often involve the interplay between genetic and environmental factors. Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 2 neuropathies (CMT2) are a group of genetically heterogeneous disorders, in which similar peripheral neuropathology is inexplicably caused by various mutated genes. Their possible molecular links remain elusive. Here, we found that upon environmental stress, many CMT2-causing mutant proteins adopt similar properties by entering stress granules (SGs), where they aberrantly interact with G3BP and integrate into SG pathways. For example, glycyl-tRNA synthetase (GlyRS) is translocated from the cytoplasm into SGs upon stress, where the mutant GlyRS perturbs the G3BP-centric SG network by aberrantly binding to G3BP. This disrupts SG-mediated stress responses, leading to increased stress vulnerability in motoneurons. Disrupting this aberrant interaction rescues SG abnormalities and alleviates motor deficits in CMT2D mice. These findings reveal a stress-dependent molecular link across diverse CMT2 mutants and provide a conceptual framework for understanding genetic heterogeneity in light of environmental stress.
PXD039437	36739439	Pivotal role for S-nitrosylation of DNA methyltransferase 3B in epigenetic regulation of tumorigenesis. 	Pivotal role for S-nitrosylation of DNA methyltransferase in epigenetic regulation	Cancer, DNA methylation, Epigenetics, NO, S-nitrosylation	DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) catalyze methylation at the C5 position of cytosine with S-adenosyl-L-methionine. Methylation regulates gene expression, serving a variety of physiological and pathophysiological roles. The chemical mechanisms regulating DNMT enzymatic activity, however, are not fully elucidated. Here, we show that protein S-nitrosylation of a cysteine residue in DNMT3B attenuates DNMT3B enzymatic activity and consequent aberrant upregulation of gene expression. These genes include Cyclin D2 (Ccnd2), which is required for neoplastic cell proliferation in some tumor types. In cell-based and in vivo cancer models, only DNMT3B enzymatic activity, and not DNMT1 or DNMT3A, affects Ccnd2 expression. Using structure-based virtual screening, we discovered chemical compounds that specifically inhibit S-nitrosylation without directly affecting DNMT3B enzymatic activity. The lead compound, designated DBIC, inhibits S-nitrosylation of DNMT3B at low concentrations (IC50 <= 100 nM). Treatment with DBIC prevents nitric oxide (NO)-induced conversion of human colonic adenoma to adenocarcinoma in vitro. Additionally, in vivo treatment with DBIC strongly attenuates tumor development in a mouse model of carcinogenesis triggered by inflammation-induced generation of NO. Our results demonstrate that de novo DNA methylation mediated by DNMT3B is regulated by NO, and DBIC protects against tumor formation by preventing aberrant S-nitrosylation of DNMT3B.
PXD038491	36739885	SPINDLY mediates O-fucosylation of hundreds of proteins and sugar-dependent growth in Arabidopsis. 	SPY mediates O-fucose modification of hundreds of proteins and sugar-dependent growth in Arabidopsis_(Part 2: EtHCD)	AAL, O-fucosylation, O-glycosylation	The recent discovery of SPINDLY (SPY)-catalyzed protein O-fucosylation revealed a novel mechanism for regulating nucleocytoplasmic protein functions in plants. Genetic evidence indicates the important roles of SPY in diverse developmental and physiological processes. However, the upstream signal controlling SPY activity and the downstream substrate proteins O-fucosylated by SPY remain largely unknown. Here, we demonstrated that SPY mediates sugar-dependent growth in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). We further identified hundreds of O-fucosylated proteins using lectin affinity chromatography followed by mass spectrometry. All the O-fucosylation events quantified in our proteomic analyses were undetectable or dramatically decreased in the spy mutants, and thus likely catalyzed by SPY. The O-fucosylome includes mostly nuclear and cytosolic proteins. Many O-fucosylated proteins function in essential cellular processes, phytohormone signaling, and developmental programs, consistent with the genetic functions of SPY. The O-fucosylome also includes many proteins modified by O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) and by phosphorylation downstream of the target of rapamycin (TOR) kinase, revealing the convergence of these nutrient signaling pathways on key regulatory functions such as post-transcriptional/translational regulation and phytohormone responses. Our study identified numerous targets of SPY/O-fucosylation and potential nodes of crosstalk among sugar/nutrient signaling pathways, enabling future dissection of the signaling network that mediates sugar regulation of plant growth and development.
PXD038509	36743215	Investigation on acquired palbociclib resistance by LC-MS based multi-omics analysis. 	Multi-omics study for drug resistance investigation	Cancer biologyc, Drug resistance, Glyproteomics, LC-MS1, Metabolomics	Palbociclib is a specific CDK4/6 inhibitor that has been widely applied in multiple types of tumors. Different from cytotoxic drugs, the anticancer mechanism of palbociclib mainly depends on cell cycle inhibition. Therefore, the resistance mechanism is different. For clinical cancer patients, drug resistance is inevitable for almost all cancer therapies including palbociclib. We have trained palbociclib resistant cells in vitro to simulate the clinical situation and applied LC-MS multi-omics analysis methods including proteomic, metabolomic, and glycoproteomic techniques, to deeply understand the underly mechanism behind the resistance. As a result of proteomic analysis, the resistant cells were found to rely on altered metabolic pathways to keep proliferation. Metabolic processes related to carbohydrates, lipids, DNA, cellular proteins, glucose, and amino acids were observed to be upregulated. Most dramatically, the protein expressions of COX-1 and NDUFB8 have been detected to be significantly overexpressed by proteomic analysis. When a COX-1 inhibitor was hired to combine with palbociclib, a synergistic effect could be obtained, suggesting the altered COX-1 involved metabolic pathway is an important reason for the acquired palbociclib resistance. The KEGG pathway of N-glycan biosynthesis was identified through metabolomics analysis. N-glycoproteomic analysis was therefore included and the global glycosylation was found to be elevated in the palbociclib-resistant cells. Moreover, integration analysis of glycoproteomic data allowed us to detect a lot more proteins that have been glycosylated with low abundances, these proteins were considered to be overwhelmed by those highly abundant proteins during regular proteomic LC-MS detection. These low-abundant proteins are mainly involved in the cellular biology processes of cell migration, the regulation of chemotaxis, as well as the glycoprotein metabolic process which offered us great more details on the roles played by N-glycosylation in drug resistance. Our result also verified that N-glycosylation inhibitors could enhance the cell growth inhibition of palbociclib in resistant cells. The high efficiency of the integrated multi-omics analysis workflow in discovering drug resistance mechanisms paves a new way for drug development. With a clear understanding of the resistance mechanism, new drug targets and drug combinations could be designed to resensitize the resistant tumors.
PXD032271	36745330	In-depth quantitative proteomics analysis revealed C1GALT1 depletion in ECC-1 cells mimics an aggressive endometrial cancer phenotype observed in cancer patients with low C1GALT1 expression. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis revealed C1GALT1 depletion in ECC-1 cells mimics an aggressive endometrial cancer phenotype observed in cancer patients with low C1GALT1 expression.	C1GALT1, Endometrial cancer, O-glycosylation, Quantitative proteomics, SILAC	BACKGROUND: Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most common cancer of the female reproductive organs. Despite the good overall prognosis of most low-grade ECs, FIGO I and FIGO II patients might experience tumor recurrence and worse prognosis. The study of alterations related to EC pathogenesis might help to get insights into underlying mechanisms involved in EC development and progression. METHODS: Core tumoral samples were used to investigate the role of C1GALT1 in EC by immunohistochemistry (IHC). ECC-1 cells were used as endometrioid EC model to investigate the effect of C1GALT1 depletion using C1GALT1 specific shRNAs. SILAC quantitative proteomics analyses and cell-based assays, PCR, qPCR, WB, dot-blot and IHC analyses were used to identify, quantify and validate dysregulation of proteins. RESULTS: Low C1GALT1 protein expression levels associate to a more aggressive phenotype of EC. Out of 5208 proteins identified and quantified by LC-MS/MS, 100 proteins showed dysregulation (log2fold-change >= 0.58 or <=-0.58) in the cell protein extracts and 144 in the secretome of C1GALT1 depleted ECC-1 cells. Nine dysregulated proteins were validated. Bioinformatics analyses pointed out to an increase in pathways associated with an aggressive phenotype. This finding was corroborated by loss-of-function cell-based assays demonstrating higher proliferation, invasion, migration, colony formation and angiogenesis capacity in C1GALT1 depleted cells. These effects were associated to the overexpression of ANXA1, as demonstrated by ANXA1 transient silencing cell-based assays, and thus, correlating C1GALT and ANXA1 protein expression and biological effects. Finally, the negative protein expression correlation found by proteomics between C1GALT1 and LGALS3 was confirmed by IHC. CONCLUSION: C1GALT1 stably depleted ECC-1 cells mimic an EC aggressive phenotype observed in patients and might be useful for the identification and validation of EC markers of progression.
PXD033139	36745811	PKD autoinhibition in trans regulates activation loop autophosphorylation in cis. 	PKD autoinhibition in trans prevents activation loop autophosphorylation in cis	HDX-MS, PKD1	Phosphorylation is a ubiquitous mechanism by which signals are transduced in cells. Protein kinases, enzymes that catalyze the phosphotransfer reaction are, themselves, often regulated by phosphorylation. Paradoxically, however, a substantial fraction of more than 500 human protein kinases are capable of catalyzing their own activation loop phosphorylation. Commonly, these kinases perform this autophosphorylation reaction in trans, whereby transient dimerization leads to the mutual phosphorylation of the activation loop of the opposing protomer. In this study, we demonstrate that protein kinase D (PKD) is regulated by the inverse mechanism of dimerization-mediated trans-autoinhibition, followed by activation loop autophosphorylation in cis. We show that PKD forms a stable face-to-face homodimer that is incapable of either autophosphorylation or substrate phosphorylation. Dissociation of this trans-autoinhibited dimer results in activation loop autophosphorylation, which occurs exclusively in cis. Phosphorylation serves to increase PKD activity and prevent trans-autoinhibition, thereby switching PKD on. Our findings not only reveal the mechanism of PKD regulation but also have profound implications for the regulation of many other eukaryotic kinases.
PXD035863	36747015	Consolidation of metabolomic, proteomic, and GWAS data in connective model of schizophrenia. 	Schizophrenia Proteome Research	data integration, pathway analysis, quantitative analysis, schizophrenia, translational metabolomics	Despite of multiple systematic studies of schizophrenia based on proteomics, metabolomics, and genome-wide significant loci, reconstruction of underlying mechanism is still a challenging task. Combination of the advanced data for quantitative proteomics, metabolomics, and genome-wide association study (GWAS) can enhance the current fundamental knowledge about molecular pathogenesis of schizophrenia. In this study, we utilized quantitative proteomic and metabolomic assay, and high throughput genotyping for the GWAS study. We identified 20 differently expressed proteins that were validated on an independent cohort of patients with schizophrenia, including ALS, A1AG1, PEDF, VTDB, CERU, APOB, APOH, FASN, GPX3, etc. and almost half of them are new for schizophrenia. The metabolomic survey revealed 18 group-specific compounds, most of which were the part of transformation of tyrosine and steroids with the prevalence to androgens (androsterone sulfate, thyroliberin, thyroxine, dihydrotestosterone, androstenedione, cholesterol sulfate, metanephrine, dopaquinone, etc.). The GWAS assay mostly failed to reveal significantly associated loci therefore 52 loci with the smoothened p < 10(-5) were fractionally integrated into proteome-metabolome data. We integrated three omics layers and powered them by the quantitative analysis to propose a map of molecular events associated with schizophrenia psychopathology. The resulting interplay between different molecular layers emphasizes a strict implication of lipids transport, oxidative stress, imbalance in steroidogenesis and associated impartments of thyroid hormones as key interconnected nodes essential for understanding of how the regulation of distinct metabolic axis is achieved and what happens in the conditioned proteome and metabolome to produce a schizophrenia-specific pattern.
PXD040617	36747266	Transcriptomics-proteomics Integration reveals alternative polyadenylation driving inflammation-related protein translation in patients with diabetic nephropathy. 	The Glomerulus Multi-Omics Analysis Provides Deeper Insights into Diabetic Nephropathy	Diabetic nephropathy, glomeruli, integration, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a complex disease involving the upregulation of many inflammation-related proteins. Alternative polyadenylation (APA), a crucial post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism, has been proven to play vital roles in many inflammatory diseases. However, it is largely unknown whether and how APA exerts function in DN. METHODS: We performed transcriptomics and proteomics analysis of glomeruli samples isolated from 50 biopsy-proven DN patients and 25 control subjects. DaPars and QAPA algorithms were adopted to identify APA events from RNA-seq data. The qRT-PCR analysis was conducted to verify 3'UTR length alteration. Short and long 3'UTRs isoforms were also overexpressed in podocytes under hyperglycemia condition for examining protein expression. RESULTS: We detected transcriptome-wide 3'UTR APA events in DN, and found that APA-mediated 3'UTR lengthening of genes (APA genes) increased their expression at protein but not mRNA level. Increased protein level of 3'UTR lengthening gene was validated in podocytes under hyperglycemia condition. Pathway enrichment analysis showed that APA genes were enriched in inflammation-related biological processes including endoplasmic reticulum stress pathways, NF-kappaB signaling and autophagy. Further bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that 3'UTR APA of genes probably altered the binding sites for RNA-binding proteins, thus enhancing protein translation. CONCLUSION: This study revealed for the first time that 3'UTR lengthening of APA genes contributed to the progression of DN by elevating the translation of corresponding proteins, providing new insight and a rich resource for investigating DN mechanisms.
PXD043798	36747654	Kar4 is Required for the Normal Pattern of Meiotic Gene Expression. 	Yeast meiotic proteome in wildtype versus kar4 mutant	adenine methyltransferase, meiosis, saccaromyces	Kar4p, the yeast homolog of the mammalian methyltransferase subunit METTL14, is required for the initiation of meiosis and has at least two distinct functions in regulating the meiotic program. Cells lacking Kar4p can be driven to sporulate by co-overexpressing the master meiotic transcription factor, IME1 , and the translational regulator, RIM4 , suggesting that Kar4p functions at both the transcriptional and translational level to regulate meiosis. Using microarray analysis and RNA sequencing, we found that kar4 Delta/Delta mutants have a largely wild type transcriptional profile with the exception of two groups of genes that show delayed and reduced expression: (1) a set of Ime1p-dependent early genes as well as IME1 , and (2) a set of late genes dependent on the mid-meiotic transcription factor, Ndt80p. The early gene expression defect is rescued by overexpressing IME1 , but the late defect is only suppressed by overexpression of both IME1 and RIM4 . Mass spectrometry analysis identified several genes involved in meiotic recombination with strongly reduced protein levels, but with little to no reduction in transcript levels in kar4 Delta/Delta after IME1 overexpression. The low levels of these proteins were rescued by overexpression of RIM4 and IME1 , but not by the overexpression of IME1 alone. These data expand our understanding of the role of Kar4p in regulating meiosis and provide key insights into a potential mechanism of Kar4p's later meiotic function that is independent of mRNA methylation. Author Summary: Kar4p is required at two stages during meiosis. Cells lacking Kar4p have a severe loss of mRNA methylation and arrest early in the meiotic program, failing to undergo either pre-meiotic DNA synthesis or meiotic recombination. The early block is rescued by overexpression of the meiotic transcription factor, IME1 . The kar4 Delta/Delta cells show delayed and reduced expression of a set of Ime1p-dependent genes expressed early in meiosis as well as a set of later genes that are largely Ndt80p-dependent. Overexpression of IME1 rescues the expression defect of these early genes and expedites the meiotic program in the wild type S288C strain background. However, IME1 overexpression is not sufficient to facilitate sporulation in kar4 Delta/Delta. Completion of meiosis and sporulation requires the additional overexpression of a translational regulator, RIM4 . Analysis of kar4 Delta/Delta's proteome during meiosis with IME1 overexpression revealed that proteins important for meiotic recombination have reduced levels that cannot be explained by equivalent reductions in transcript abundance. IME1 overexpression by itself rescues the defect associated with a catalytic mutant of Ime4p, implying that the early defect reflects mRNA methylation. The residual defects in protein levels likely reflect the loss of a non-catalytic function of Kar4p, and the methylation complex, which requires overexpression of RIM4 to suppress.
PXD014428	36749316	Toxicoproteomics of Mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate and Perfluorooctanesulfonic Acid in Models of Prostatic Diseases. 	Toxicoproteomics of environmental mixtures in prostate diseases	Toxicoproteomics prostate benign stroma metastatic epithelium phthalate MEHP perfluoroalkyl substance PFOS	Benign and malignant prostatic diseases are common, costly, and burdensome; moreover, they share fundamental underlying molecular processes. Several ubiquitous contaminants may perturb these processes, possibly via peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling, but the role of environmental exposures-particularly mixtures-in prostatic diseases is undefined. In the present study, nontumorigenic prostate stromal cells and metastatic prostate epithelial cells were exposed to ubiquitous exogenous PPAR ligands under different dosing paradigms, including a mixture, and effects were assessed via mass spectrometry-based global proteomics. In prostate stromal cells, environmentally relevant levels of mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP), alone and in combination with perfluorooctanesulfonic acid, led to significant changes in proteins involved in key processes underlying prostatic diseases: oxidative stress defense, proteostasis, damage-associated molecular pattern signaling, and innate immune response signaling. A follow-up experiment in metastatic prostate epithelial cells showed that the occupationally relevant levels of MEHP perturbed similar processes, including lipid, cholesterol, steroid, and alcohol metabolism; apoptosis and coagulation regulation; wound response; and aging. This work shows that environmental exposures may contribute to prostatic diseases by perturbing key processes of a proposed adverse outcome pathway, including lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Future in vivo research will investigate the role of contaminants in prostatic diseases and in preventative agents.
PXD033961	36749362	The mitochondrial BCKD complex interacts with hepatic apolipoprotein E in cultured cells in vitro and mouse livers in vivo. 	The hepatic BCKD complex interacts with apolipoprotein E in vivo and its enzyme activity is increased in APOE4 mice	ApoE, co-immunoprecipitation	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Apolipoprotein E (APOE) is known for its role in lipid metabolism and its association with age-related disease pathology. The aim of the present work was to identify previously unknown functions of APOE based on the detection of novel APOE protein-protein interaction candidates. APPROACH AND RESULTS: APOE targeted replacement mice and transfected cultured hepatocytes expressing the human isoforms APOE3 and APOE4 were used. For 7 months, APOE3 and APOE4 mice were fed a high-fat and high-sugar diet to induce obesity, while a subgroup was subjected to 30% dietary restriction. Proteomic analysis of coimmunoprecipitation products from APOE mouse liver extracts revealed 28 APOE-interacting candidate proteins, including branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex subunit alpha (BCKDHA) and voltage-dependent anion-selective channel 1 (VDAC1). The binding of APOE and BCKDHA was verified in situ by proximity ligation assay in cultured cells. The activity of the BCKD enzyme complex was significantly higher in obese APOE4 mice than in APOE3 mice, while the plasma levels of branched-chain amino acids and mTOR signalling proteins were not different. However, the protein-protein interaction with VDAC1 was strongly induced in APOE3 and APOE4 mice upon dietary restriction, suggesting a prominent role of APOE in mitochondrial function. CONCLUSIONS: The protein-protein interactions of APOE with BCKDHA and VDAC1 appear to be of physiological relevance and are modulated upon dietary restriction. Because these are mitochondrial proteins, it may be suggested that APOE is involved in mitochondria-related processes and adaptation to hepatic energy demands.
PXD039385	36750097	Piperlongumine conjugates induce targeted protein degradation. 	Piperlongumine (PL) conjugates induce targeted protein degradation	CDK9, E3 ligase, PROTAC, Piperlongumine	Proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) are bifunctional molecules that degrade target proteins through recruiting E3 ligases. However, their application is limited in part because few E3 ligases can be recruited by known E3 ligase ligands. In this study, we identified piperlongumine (PL), a natural product, as a covalent E3 ligase recruiter, which induces CDK9 degradation when it is conjugated with SNS-032, a CDK9 inhibitor. The lead conjugate 955 can potently degrade CDK9 in a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent manner and is much more potent than SNS-032 against various tumor cells in vitro. Mechanistically, we identified KEAP1 as the E3 ligase recruited by 955 to degrade CDK9 through a TurboID-based proteomics study, which was further confirmed by KEAP1 knockout and the nanoBRET ternary complex formation assay. In addition, PL-ceritinib conjugate can degrade EML4-ALK fusion oncoprotein, suggesting that PL may have a broader application as a covalent E3 ligase ligand in targeted protein degradation.
PXD034445	36750717	The regulation loop of MARVELD1 interacting with PARP1 in DNA damage response maintains genome stability and promotes therapy resistance of cancer cells. 	HeLa cells were transfected with MARVELD1, then treated with or without HU treatment,following with IP and LC-MSMS analysis	HeLa cells LC-MSMS MARVELD1 HU	The DNA damage response (DDR) plays crucial roles in cancer prevention and therapy. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) mediates multiple signal transduction in the DDR as a master regulator. Uncovering the regulatory factors of PARP1 contributes to a more comprehensive view of tumorigenesis and treatment strategies. Here, we reveal that MARVELD1 acts as a mediator of DDR to perform early events and maintain genome stability. Mechanistically, PARP1 PARylates MARVELD1 at D102, D118 and D130, and in turn, MARVELD1 stabilizes PARP1 by enhancing NAA50-mediated acetylation, thus forming a positive feedback loop. MARVELD1 knockout mice and their embryo fibroblasts exhibit genomic instability and shorter half-life of PARP1. Moreover, MARVELD1 partnering with PARP1 facilitates resistance to genotoxic drugs and disrupts PARP inhibitor (PARPi) effect in PDX model of colorectal cancer (CRC). Overall, our results underline the link between MARVELD1 and PARP1 in therapeutic resistance based on DDR and provide new insights for clinical tumor therapy of PARPi.
PXD039453	36751022	Online Alkaline-pH Reverse Phase Nanoelectrospray-Tandem Mass Spectrometry Complements Conventional Low-pH Method for Global Proteomic Analysis. 	Online alkaline-pH reverse phase nanoelectrospray-tandem mass spectrometry complements conventional low-pH method for global proteomic analysis	amino acid variant, online alkaline-pH reverse phase	The global proteome analysis was limited by the identification of peptides with low abundance or specific physiochemical properties. Here, a one-dimensional online alkaline-pH reverse phase nanoelectrospray-tandem mass spectrometry (alkaline-pH-MS/MS) method was developed and optimized for global proteomic analysis. In this method, peptides were separated on a nanoflow C18 column with an alkaline-pH mobile phase (pH = 8.0) and directly injected into the mass spectrometer. The unique peptides overlapped between alkaline-pH-MS/MS and conventional online low-pH reverse phase nanoelectrospray-tandem mass spectrometry (low-pH-MS/MS) were as low as 45%, strongly indicating that these two methods were complementary to each other. In addition, alkaline-pH-MS/MS showed identification capacity for a higher proportion of peptides with negative grand average of hydropathy (GRAVY) or high isoelectric point (pI). Compared to low-pH-MS/MS, alkaline-pH-MS/MS enabled enrichment preference toward histidine-, lysine-, methionine-, and proline-containing peptides. The complementarity of alkaline-pH-MS/MS and low-pH-MS/MS was further demonstrated for the analysis of tryptic digests from 15 intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) cell lines. The alternating 60 min alkaline-pH-MS/MS plus 60 min low-pH-MS/MS method outperformed the conventional 120 min low-pH-MS/MS method in both the identification of amino acid variants and protein groups. Therefore, we established the alkaline-pH-MS/MS method as a simple, competitive, alternative method to low-pH-MS/MS for global proteomic analysis.
PXD035249	3675212	[Age-related dynamics of the shape and size of the subpubic angle in children and adolescents]. 	Four-dimensional proteomics analysis of human cerebrospinal fluid on a trapped ion mobility mass spectrometer using PASEF	4D proteomics, CSF, DDA-PASEF, and Alzheimer's Disease, diaPASEF, prm-PASEF	The roentgenoanatomical investigation, performed according to archival roentgenograms of the urinary tracts in 57 boys and 294 girls at the age of 2-16 years, characterizes the value of the subpubic angle and age dynamics of its form and size. The form and size of the subpubic angle in the children of the given age varies within large range--acute, right, obtuse; sex differentiation is clearly followed in the group of 11-16 years of age, when in the boys there are three forms of the angles--right (most often occurring), then obtuse and acute (seldom occurring), while in the girls of this age group there are only two forms--obtuse and right with definite predominance frequency of the obtuse angle. The formation of the feminine type of the subpubic angle takes a longer period of time than the masculine type.
PXD037459	36753634	Targeted Dephosphorylation of Tau by Phosphorylation Targeting Chimeras (PhosTACs) as a Therapeutic Modality. 	DIA-MS Detect the Dephosphorylation of Tau by Phosphorylation Targeting Chimera (PhosTAC)	DIA-MS, PhosTAC, Tau, dephosphorylation, phosphoproteomics	Microtubule-associated protein tau is essential for microtubule assembly and stabilization. Hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau plays an important pathological role in the development of Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. In vivo studies using kinase inhibitors suggest that reducing tau phosphorylation levels has therapeutic potential; however, such approaches showed limited benefits. We sought to further develop our phosphorylation targeting chimera (PhosTAC) technology to specifically induce tau dephosphorylation. Herein, we use small molecule-based PhosTACs to recruit tau to PP2A, a native tau phosphatase. PhosTACs induced the formation of a stable ternary complex, leading to rapid, efficient, and sustained tau dephosphorylation, which also correlated with the enhanced downregulation of tau protein. Mass spectrometry data validated that PhosTACs downregulated multiple phosphorylation sites of tau. We believe that PhosTAC possesses several advantages over current strategies to modulate tau phosphorylation and represents a new avenue for disease-modifying therapies for tauopathies.
PXD036192	36754959	MORF and MOZ acetyltransferases target unmethylated CpG islands through the winged helix domain. 	MORF and MOZ acetyltransferases target unmethylated CpG islands through the winged helix domain	MORF MOZ CpG islands	Human acetyltransferases MOZ and MORF are implicated in chromosomal translocations associated with aggressive leukemias. Oncogenic translocations involve the far amino terminus of MOZ/MORF, the function of which remains unclear. Here, we identified and characterized two structured winged helix (WH) domains, WH1 and WH2, in MORF and MOZ. WHs bind DNA in a cooperative manner, with WH1 specifically recognizing unmethylated CpG sequences. Structural and genomic analyses show that the DNA binding function of WHs targets MORF/MOZ to gene promoters, stimulating transcription and H3K23 acetylation, and WH1 recruits oncogenic fusions to HOXA genes that trigger leukemogenesis. Cryo-EM, NMR, mass spectrometry and mutagenesis studies provide mechanistic insight into the DNA-binding mechanism, which includes the association of WH1 with the CpG-containing linker DNA and binding of WH2 to the dyad of the nucleosome. The discovery of WHs in MORF and MOZ and their DNA binding functions could open an avenue in developing therapeutics to treat diseases associated with aberrant MOZ/MORF acetyltransferase activities.
PXD039091	36754961	VGLL3 is a mechanosensitive protein that promotes cardiac fibrosis through liquid-liquid phase separation. 	Nakaya_VGLL3-FLAG_IP-MS_QEplus	IP-MS, VGLL3	Myofibroblasts cause tissue fibrosis by producing extracellular matrix proteins, such as collagens. Humoral factors like TGF-beta, and matrix stiffness are important for collagen production by myofibroblasts. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating their ability to produce collagen remain poorly characterised. Here, we show that vestigial-like family member 3 (VGLL3) is specifically expressed in myofibroblasts from mouse and human fibrotic hearts and promotes collagen production. Further, substrate stiffness triggers VGLL3 translocation into the nucleus through the integrin beta1-Rho-actin pathway. In the nucleus, VGLL3 undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation via its low-complexity domain and is incorporated into non-paraspeckle NONO condensates containing EWS RNA-binding protein 1 (EWSR1). VGLL3 binds EWSR1 and suppresses miR-29b, which targets collagen mRNA. Consistently, cardiac fibrosis after myocardial infarction is significantly attenuated in Vgll3-deficient mice, with increased miR-29b expression. Overall, our results reveal an unrecognised VGLL3-mediated pathway that controls myofibroblasts' collagen production, representing a novel therapeutic target for tissue fibrosis.
PXD037526	36754966	CryoET reveals organelle phenotypes in huntington disease patient iPSC-derived and mouse primary neurons. 	Proteomic analysis of mitochondria from Huntington's Disease patient iPSC-derived neurons	Huntingtons disease, mitochondria, neurodegeneration	Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by an expanded CAG repeat in the huntingtin gene, yielding a Huntingtin protein with an expanded polyglutamine tract. While experiments with patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can help understand disease, defining pathological biomarkers remains challenging. Here, we used cryogenic electron tomography to visualize neurites in HD patient iPSC-derived neurons with varying CAG repeats, and primary cortical neurons from BACHD, deltaN17-BACHD, and wild-type mice. In HD models, we discovered sheet aggregates in double membrane-bound organelles, and mitochondria with distorted cristae and enlarged granules, likely mitochondrial RNA granules. We used artificial intelligence to quantify mitochondrial granules, and proteomics experiments reveal differential protein content in isolated HD mitochondria. Knockdown of Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT1 ameliorated aberrant phenotypes in iPSC- and BACHD neurons. We show that integrated ultrastructural and proteomic approaches may uncover early HD phenotypes to accelerate diagnostics and the development of targeted therapeutics for HD.
PXD024285	36755313	Ultra-sensitive isotope probing to quantify activity and substrate assimilation in microbiomes. 	Labeling of Bacillus subtilis and Escherichia coli to saturation with different percentages of 13C2 labeled glucose for benchmarking of protein-based stable isotope probing proteomics (Protein-SIP)	13C, 1D-LC, Protein-SIP, carbon 13, metaproteomics, stable isotope, stable isotope probing	BACKGROUND: Stable isotope probing (SIP) approaches are a critical tool in microbiome research to determine associations between species and substrates, as well as the activity of species. The application of these approaches ranges from studying microbial communities important for global biogeochemical cycling to host-microbiota interactions in the intestinal tract. Current SIP approaches, such as DNA-SIP or nanoSIMS allow to analyze incorporation of stable isotopes with high coverage of taxa in a community and at the single cell level, respectively, however they are limited in terms of sensitivity, resolution or throughput. RESULTS: Here, we present an ultra-sensitive, high-throughput protein-based stable isotope probing approach (Protein-SIP), which cuts cost for labeled substrates by 50-99% as compared to other SIP and Protein-SIP approaches and thus enables isotope labeling experiments on much larger scales and with higher replication. The approach allows for the determination of isotope incorporation into microbiome members with species level resolution using standard metaproteomics liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) measurements. At the core of the approach are new algorithms to analyze the data, which have been implemented in an open-source software ( https://sourceforge.net/projects/calis-p/ ). We demonstrate sensitivity, precision and accuracy using bacterial cultures and mock communities with different labeling schemes. Furthermore, we benchmark our approach against two existing Protein-SIP approaches and show that in the low labeling range used our approach is the most sensitive and accurate. Finally, we measure translational activity using (18)O heavy water labeling in a 63-species community derived from human fecal samples grown on media simulating two different diets. Activity could be quantified on average for 27 species per sample, with 9 species showing significantly higher activity on a high protein diet, as compared to a high fiber diet. Surprisingly, among the species with increased activity on high protein were several Bacteroides species known as fiber consumers. Apparently, protein supply is a critical consideration when assessing growth of intestinal microbes on fiber, including fiber-based prebiotics. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that our Protein-SIP approach allows for the ultra-sensitive (0.01 to 10% label) detection of stable isotopes of elements found in proteins, using standard metaproteomics data.
PXD032256	36757682	A pair of isoleucyl-tRNA synthetases in Bacilli fulfills complementary roles to keep fast translation and provide antibiotic resistance. 	Priestia megaterium response to mupirocin treatment	Bacillus megaterium, Priestia megaterium, isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase, mupirocin	Isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase (IleRS) is an essential enzyme that covalently couples isoleucine to the corresponding tRNA. Bacterial IleRSs group in two clades, ileS1 and ileS2, the latter bringing resistance to the natural antibiotic mupirocin. Generally, bacteria rely on either ileS1 or ileS2 as a standalone housekeeping gene. However, we have found an exception by noticing that Bacillus species with genomic ileS2 consistently also keep ileS1, which appears mandatory in the family Bacillaceae. Taking Priestia (Bacillus) megaterium as a model organism, we showed that PmIleRS1 is constitutively expressed, while PmIleRS2 is stress-induced. Both enzymes share the same level of the aminoacylation accuracy. Yet, PmIleRS1 exhibited a two-fold faster aminoacylation turnover (kcat ) than PmIleRS2 and permitted a notably faster cell-free translation. At the same time, PmIleRS2 displayed a 10(4) -fold increase in its Ki for mupirocin, arguing that the aminoacylation turnover in IleRS2 could have been traded-off for antibiotic resistance. As expected, a P. megaterium strain deleted for ileS2 was mupirocin-sensitive. Interestingly, an attempt to construct a mupirocin-resistant strain lacking ileS1, a solution not found among species of the family Bacillaceae in nature, led to a viable but compromised strain. Our data suggest that PmIleRS1 is kept to promote fast translation, whereas PmIleRS2 is maintained to provide antibiotic resistance when needed. This is consistent with an emerging picture in which fast-growing organisms predominantly use IleRS1 for competitive survival.
PXD033436	36757838	The Effects of Graded Levels of Calorie Restriction: XIX. Impact of Graded Calorie Restriction on Protein Expression in the Liver. 	Impact of graded calorie restriction on mouse liver protein expression	Calorie Restriction, Liver	Calorie restriction (CR) extends life span by modulating the mechanisms involved in aging. We quantified the hepatic proteome of male C57BL/6 mice exposed to graded levels of CR (0%-40% CR) for 3 months, and evaluated which signaling pathways were most affected. The metabolic pathways most significantly stimulated by the increase in CR, included the glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathway, the pentose phosphate pathway, the fatty acid degradation pathway, the valine, leucine, and isoleucine degradation pathway, and the lysine degradation pathway. The metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450 pathway was activated and feminized by increased CR, while production in major urinary proteins (Mups) was strongly reduced, consistent with a reduced investment in reproduction as predicted by the disposable soma hypothesis. However, we found no evidence of increased somatic protection, and none of the 4 main pathways implied to be linked to the impact of CR on life span (insulin/insulin-like growth factor [IGF-1], nuclear factor-kappaB [NF-kappaB], mammalian Target of Rapamycin [mTOR], and sirtuins) as well as pathways in cancer, were significantly changed at the protein level in relation to the increase in CR level. This was despite previous work at the transcriptome level in the same individuals indicating such changes. On the other hand, we found Aldh2, Aldh3a2, and Aldh9a1 in carnitine biosynthesis and Acsl5 in carnitine shuttle system were up-regulated by increased CR, which are consistent with our previous work on metabolome of the same individuals. Overall, the patterns of protein expression were more consistent with a "clean cupboards" than a "disposable soma" interpretation.
PXD039954	36758106	Structural basis for SMAC-mediated antagonism of caspase inhibition by the giant ubiquitin ligase BIRC6. 	Structural basis for SMAC-mediated antagonism of caspase inhibition by the giant ubiquitin ligase BIRC6	AP-MS, BIRC6, Biochemistry, Cell death, Structural Biology, Ubiquitomics	Certain inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) family members are sentinel proteins that prevent untimely cell death by inhibiting caspases. Antagonists, including second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases (SMAC), regulate IAPs and drive cell death. Baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 6 (BIRC6), a giant IAP with dual E2 and E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, regulates programmed cell death through unknown mechanisms. We show that BIRC6 directly restricts executioner caspase-3 and -7 and ubiquitinates caspase-3, -7, and -9, working exclusively with noncanonical E1, UBA6. Notably, we show that SMAC suppresses both mechanisms. Cryo-electron microscopy structures of BIRC6 alone and in complex with SMAC reveal that BIRC6 is an antiparallel dimer juxtaposing the substrate-binding module against the catalytic domain. Furthermore, we discover that SMAC multisite binding to BIRC6 results in a subnanomolar affinity interaction, enabling SMAC to competitively displace caspases, thus antagonizing BIRC6 anticaspase function.
PXD024685	36758124	Organ Protection by Caloric Restriction Depends on Activation of the De Novo NAD+ Synthesis Pathway. 	Proteomic analyses of non-preconditioned murine kidneys pre- and post-IRI in comparison to kidneys after preconditioning by hypoxia or caloric restriction	Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury, caloric restriction, hypoxia, preconditioning	SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: AKI is a major clinical complication leading to high mortality, but intensive research over the past decades has not led to targeted preventive or therapeutic measures. In rodent models, caloric restriction (CR) and transient hypoxia significantly prevent AKI and a recent comparative transcriptome analysis of murine kidneys identified kynureninase (KYNU) as a shared downstream target. The present work shows that KYNU strongly contributes to CR-mediated protection as a key player in the de novo nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide biosynthesis pathway. Importantly, the link between CR and NAD+ biosynthesis could be recapitulated in a human cohort. BACKGROUND: Clinical practice lacks strategies to treat AKI. Interestingly, preconditioning by hypoxia and caloric restriction (CR) is highly protective in rodent AKI models. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of this process are unknown. METHODS: Kynureninase (KYNU) knockout mice were generated by Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) and comparative transcriptome, proteome and metabolite analyses of murine kidneys pre- and post-ischemia-reperfusion injury in the context of CR or ad libitum diet were performed. In addition, acetyl-lysin enrichment and mass spectrometry were used to assess protein acetylation. RESULTS: We identified KYNU as a downstream target of CR and show that KYNU strongly contributes to the protective effect of CR. The KYNU-dependent de novo nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) biosynthesis pathway is necessary for CR-associated maintenance of NAD+ levels. This finding is associated with reduced protein acetylation in CR-treated animals, specifically affecting enzymes in energy metabolism. Importantly, the effect of CR on de novo NAD+ biosynthesis pathway metabolites can be recapitulated in humans. CONCLUSIONS: CR induces the de novo NAD+ synthesis pathway in the context of IRI and is essential for its full nephroprotective potential. Differential protein acetylation may be the molecular mechanism underlying the relationship of NAD+, CR, and nephroprotection.
PXD039028	36758543	ATP-competitive and allosteric inhibitors induce differential conformational changes at the autoinhibitory interface of Akt1. 	ATP-competitive and allosteric inhibitors induce differential conformational changes at the autoinhibitory interface of Akt	AKT1, AKT1 DrLink, ATP competitive inhibitors, HDX-MS, Protein Kinase B, allosteric inhibitors	Akt is a master regulator of pro-growth signaling in the cell. Akt is activated by phosphoinositides that disrupt the autoinhibitory interface between the kinase and pleckstrin homology (PH) domains and then is phosphorylated at T308 and S473. Akt hyperactivation is oncogenic, which has spurred development of potent and selective inhibitors as therapeutics. Using hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), we interrogated the conformational changes upon binding Akt ATP-competitive and allosteric inhibitors. We compared inhibitors against three different states of Akt1. The allosteric inhibitor caused substantive conformational changes and restricts membrane binding. ATP-competitive inhibitors caused extensive allosteric conformational changes, altering the autoinhibitory interface and leading to increased membrane binding, suggesting that the PH domain is more accessible for membrane binding. This work provides unique insight into the autoinhibitory conformation of the PH and kinase domain and conformational changes induced by Akt inhibitors and has important implications for the design of Akt targeted therapeutics.
PXD037809	36759608	Adipocyte-derived extracellular vesicles increase insulin secretion through transport of insulinotropic protein cargo. 	Adipocyte-derived extracellular vesicles increase insulin secretion through transport of insulinotropic protein cargo	Extracellular vesicles, SILAC, adipose tissue, insulin secretion, phosphoproteomics	Adipocyte-derived extracellular vesicles (AdEVs) are membranous nanoparticles that convey communication from adipose tissue to other organs. Here, to delineate their role as messengers with glucoregulatory nature, we paired fluorescence AdEV-tracing and SILAC-labeling with (phospho)proteomics, and revealed that AdEVs transfer functional insulinotropic protein cargo into pancreatic beta-cells. Upon transfer, AdEV proteins were subjects for phosphorylation, augmented insulinotropic GPCR/cAMP/PKA signaling by increasing total protein abundances and phosphosite dynamics, and ultimately enhanced 1st-phase glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in murine islets. Notably, insulinotropic effects were restricted to AdEVs isolated from obese and insulin resistant, but not lean mice, which was consistent with differential protein loads and AdEV luminal morphologies. Likewise, in vivo pre-treatment with AdEVs from obese but not lean mice amplified insulin secretion and glucose tolerance in mice. This data suggests that secreted AdEVs can inform pancreatic beta-cells about insulin resistance in adipose tissue in order to amplify GSIS in times of increased insulin demand.
PXD037878	36759610	Astrocytic lactate dehydrogenase A regulates neuronal excitability and depressive-like behaviors through lactate homeostasis in mice. 	Proteomics on dmPFC of chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) mice	CSDS, MS, dmPFC	Alterations in energy metabolism are associated with depression. However, the role of glycolysis in the pathogenesis of depression and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unexplored. Through an unbiased proteomic screen coupled with biochemical verifications, we show that the levels of glycolysis and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes L-lactate production, are reduced in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) of stress-susceptible mice in chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) model. Conditional knockout of LDHA from the brain promotes depressive-like behaviors in both male and female mice, accompanied with reduced L-lactate levels and decreased neuronal excitability in the dmPFC. Moreover, these phenotypes could be duplicated by knockdown of LDHA in the dmPFC or specifically in astrocytes. In contrast, overexpression of LDHA reverses these phenotypic changes in CSDS-susceptible mice. Mechanistic studies demonstrate that L-lactate promotes neuronal excitability through monocarboxylic acid transporter 2 (MCT2) and by inhibiting large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium (BK) channel. Together, these results reveal a role of LDHA in maintaining neuronal excitability to prevent depressive-like behaviors.
PXD027035	36759613	Splicing factor SRSF1 deficiency in the liver triggers NASH-like pathology and cell death. 	Splicing Factor SRSF1 Deficiency in the Liver Triggers NASH-like Pathology via R-Loop Induced DNA Damage and Cell Death	SRSF1, hepatocyte, liver, splicing	Regulation of RNA processing contributes profoundly to tissue development and physiology. Here, we report that serine-arginine-rich splicing factor 1 (SRSF1) is essential for hepatocyte function and survival. Although SRSF1 is mainly known for its many roles in mRNA metabolism, it is also crucial for maintaining genome stability. We show that acute liver damage in the setting of targeted SRSF1 deletion in mice is associated with the excessive formation of deleterious RNA-DNA hybrids (R-loops), which induce DNA damage. Combining hepatocyte-specific transcriptome, proteome, and RNA binding analyses, we demonstrate that widespread genotoxic stress following SRSF1 depletion results in global inhibition of mRNA transcription and protein synthesis, leading to impaired metabolism and trafficking of lipids. Lipid accumulation in SRSF1-deficient hepatocytes is followed by necroptotic cell death, inflammation, and fibrosis, resulting in NASH-like liver pathology. Importantly, SRSF1-depleted human liver cancer cells recapitulate this pathogenesis, illustrating a conserved and fundamental role for SRSF1 in preserving genome integrity and tissue homeostasis. Thus, our study uncovers how the accumulation of detrimental R-loops impedes hepatocellular gene expression, triggering metabolic derangements and liver damage.
PXD039793	36760573	Role of mitochondrial metabolism in immune checkpoint inhibitors-related myocarditis. 	Using proteomics and transcriptomics to explore the potential gene regulatory network of  immune checkpoint inhibitors-related myocarditis	Immune checkpoint inhibitors, Immunotherapy, Mitochondrial metabolism, Myocarditis	Background: Immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis is the deadliest complication of immunotherapy. However, the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of its occurrence and development remain unclear. Due to the long-term lack of effective early diagnosis and treatment options, it is of great significance to understand the pathophysiological mechanism of immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis. Methods: Tissue samples from three patients with immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis and three control tissue samples were collected for protein analysis. Differentially expressed proteins were screened out using quantitative proteomics technology based on TMT markers. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) and Gene Ontology (GO) functional enrichment analyses of cross-factors were subsequently performed. Combined with the PD-L1 subcellular organelle- level protein interaction network, we searched for hub proteins involved in immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis and explored potential drug sensitivity and disease correlation. Results: A total of 306 differentially expressed proteins were identified in immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis. Enrichment analysis showed that the differentially expressed proteins were closely related to mitochondrial metabolism. By analyzing mitochondria-related proteins and PD-L1-related proteins, we found four hub proteins, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), Glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11), and Mitofusin 2 (MFN2), indicating that they are closely related to immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis. Finally, we explored potential drugs for the treatment of immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis. Conclusion: Mitochondrial metabolism is involved in the process of immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis, and we identified four hub proteins, which may become new biomarkers for the early diagnosis and treatment of immune checkpoint inhibitor-related myocarditis.
PXD034830	36761022	Plasmodium sporozoites require the protein B9 to invade hepatocytes. 	Plasmodium sporozoites require the protein B9 to invade hepatocytes	B9 protein, Plasmodium sporozoites, beta-propeller domain., hepatocyte, invasion, malaria	Plasmodium sporozoites are transmitted to a mammalian host during blood feeding by an infected mosquito and invade hepatocytes for initial replication of the parasite into thousands of erythrocyte-invasive merozoites. Here we report that the B9 protein, a member of the 6-cysteine domain protein family, is secreted from sporozoite micronemes and is required for productive invasion of hepatocytes. The N-terminus of B9 forms a beta-propeller domain structurally related to CyRPA, a cysteine-rich protein forming an essential invasion complex in Plasmodium falciparum merozoites. The beta-propeller domain of B9 is essential for sporozoite infectivity and interacts with the 6-cysteine proteins P36 and P52 in a heterologous expression system. Our results suggest that, despite using distinct sets of parasite and host entry factors, Plasmodium sporozoites and merozoites may share common structural modules to assemble protein complexes for invasion of host cells.
PXD037743	36761728	Platelets derived citrullinated proteins and microparticles are potential autoantibodies ACPA targets in RA patients. 	Citrullinated proteins in platelets and platelets releasing microparticles may serve as a potential target of ACPA	Anti-CCP, Autoantigen(s), Autoinflammatory Diseases, Citrullination	Citrullinated neoepitopes have emerged as key triggers of autoantibodies anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPA) synthesis in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Apart from their critical role in homeostasis and thrombosis, platelets have a significant contribution to inflammation as well. Although anuclear in nature, platelets have an intricate post-translational modification machinery. Till now, citrullination in platelets and its contribution to trigger autoantibodies ACPA production in RA is an unexplored research direction. Herein, we investigated the expression of peptidylarginine deiminase (PAD) enzymes and citrullinated proteins/peptides in the human platelets and platelet derived microparticles (PDP). Both PAD4 mRNA and protein, but not the other PAD isoforms, are detectable in the human platelets. With a strict filtering criterion,108 citrullination sites present on 76 proteins were identified in the human platelets, and 55 citrullinated modifications present on 37 different proteins were detected in the PDPs. Among them, some are well-known citrullinated autoantigens associated with RA. Citrullinated forms of thrombospondin-1, beta-actin, and platelet factor-4 (also known as CXCL4) are highly immunogenic and bound by autoantibodies ACPA. Furthermore, ACPA from RA sera and synovial fluids recognized citrullinated proteins from platelets and significantly activated them as evidenced by P-selectin upregulation and sCD40 L secretion. These results clearly demonstrate the presence of citrullinated autoantigens in platelets and PDPs, thus could serve as potential targets of ACPA in RA.
PXD033366	36762436	Structural mechanism of CRL4-instructed STAT2 degradation via a novel cytomegaloviral DCAF receptor. 	Structure and mechanism of a novel cytomegaloviral DCAF mediating interferon antagonism	DCAF, DDA1, DDB1, XL-MS, crosslinking mass spectrometry, electron microscopy	Human cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a ubiquitously distributed pathogen whose rodent counterparts such as mouse and rat CMV serve as common infection models. Here, we conducted global proteome profiling of rat CMV-infected cells and uncovered a pronounced loss of the transcription factor STAT2, which is crucial for antiviral interferon signalling. Via deletion mutagenesis, we found that the viral protein E27 is required for CMV-induced STAT2 depletion. Cellular and in vitro analyses showed that E27 exploits host-cell Cullin4-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL4) complexes to induce poly-ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation of STAT2. Cryo-electron microscopy revealed how E27 mimics molecular surface properties of cellular CRL4 substrate receptors called DCAFs (DDB1- and Cullin4-associated factors), thereby displacing them from the catalytic core of CRL4. Moreover, structural analyses showed that E27 recruits STAT2 through a bipartite binding interface, which partially overlaps with the IRF9 binding site. Structure-based mutations in M27, the murine CMV homologue of E27, impair the interferon-suppressing capacity and virus replication in mouse models, supporting the conserved importance of DCAF mimicry for CMV immune evasion.
PXD029246	36762613	Cell cycle-dependent palmitoylation of protocadherin 7 by ZDHHC5 promotes successful cytokinesis. 	Identification of the cell cycle specific proximal interactors of PCDH7	BioID, HeLa, Homo sapiens, PCDH7, cell cycle, mitosis, protocadherin	Cell division requires dramatic reorganization of the cell cortex, which is primarily driven by the actomyosin network. We previously reported that protocadherin 7 (PCDH7) gets enriched at the cell surface during mitosis, which is required to build up the full mitotic rounding pressure. Here, we report that PCDH7 interacts with and is palmitoylated by the palmitoyltransferase, ZDHHC5. PCDH7 and ZDHHC5 colocalize at the mitotic cell surface and translocate to the cleavage furrow during cytokinesis. The localization of PCDH7 depends on the palmitoylation activity of ZDHHC5. Silencing PCDH7 increases the percentage of multinucleated cells and the duration of mitosis. Loss of PCDH7 expression correlates with reduced levels of active RhoA and phospho-myosin at the cleavage furrow. This work uncovers a palmitoylation-dependent translocation mechanism for PCDH7, which contributes to the reorganization of the cortical cytoskeleton during cell division.
PXD037932	36763117	beta-oxidation-polyhydroxyalkanoates synthesis relationship in Pseudomonas putida KT2440 revisited. 	The effect of multiple phaJ deletions Pseudomonas putida KT2440 on polyhydroxyalkanoates synthesis	Pseudomonas putida, de novo fatty acid synthesis, enzyme redundancy, polyhydroxyalkanoate, beta-oxidation pathway	Pseudomonas putida KT2440 is a well-known model organism for the medium-chain-length (mcl) polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) accumulation. (R)-Specific enoyl-coenzyme A hydratase (PhaJ) was considered to be the main supplier of monomers for PHA synthesis by converting the beta-oxidation intermediate, trans-2-enoyl-CoA to (R)-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA when fatty acids (FA) are used. Three PhaJ homologues, PhaJ1, PhaJ4 and MaoC, are annotated in P. putida KT2440. To investigate the relationship of fatty acids-PHA metabolism and the role of each PhaJ in PHA biosynthesis in P. putida KT2440, a series of P. putida KT2440 knockouts was obtained. PHA content and monomer composition in wild type (WT) and mutants under different growth conditions were analysed. PhaJ4 was the main monomer supplier for PHA synthesis with FA as sole carbon and energy source, with preference towards C8 and C10 substrate, whereas PhaJ1 showed preference for the C6 substrate. However, when all three PhaJ homologues were deleted, the mutant still accumulated PHA up to 10.7% of the cell dry weight (CDW). The deletion of (R)-3-hydroxydecanoyl-ACP:CoA transacylase (PhaG), which connects de novo FA and PHA synthesis pathways, while causing a further 1.8-fold decrease in PHA content, did not abolish PHA accumulation. Further proteome analysis revealed quinoprotein alcohol dehydrogenases PedE and PedH as potential monomer suppliers, but when these were deleted, the PHA level remained at 2.2-14.8% CDW depending on the fatty acid used and whether nitrogen limitation was applied. Therefore, it is likely that some other non-specific dehydrogenases supply monomers for PHA synthesis, demonstrating the redundancy of PHA metabolism. KEY POINTS: * beta-oxidation intermediates are converted to PHA monomers by hydratases PhaJ1, PhaJ4 and MaoC in Pseudomonas putida KT2440. * When these are deleted, the PHA level decreases, but it is not abolished. * PHA non-specific enzyme(s) also contributes to PHA metabolism in KT2440.
PXD032306	36763244	Src heterodimerically activates Lyn or Fyn to serve as targets for the diagnosis and treatment of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. 	Src heterodimerically activates Lyn or Fyn to serve as targets for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) diagnosis and treatment	ESCC, SRC, heterodimer	Although Src is one of the oldest and most investigated oncoproteins, its function in tumor malignancy remains to be defined further. In this study, we demonstrated that the inhibition of Src activity by ponatinib effectively suppressed several malignant phenotypes of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) both in vitro and in vivo, whereas it did not produce growth-inhibitory effects on normal esophageal epithelial cells (NEECs). Importantly, we combined phosphoproteomics and several cellular and molecular biologic strategies to identify that Src interacted with the members of Src-family kinases (SFKs), such as Fyn or Lyn, to form heterodimers. Src interactions with Fyn and Lyn phosphorylated the tyrosine sites in SH2 (Fyn Tyr(185) or Lyn Tyr(183)) and kinase domains (Fyn Tyr(420) or Lyn Tyr(397)), which critically contributed to ESCC development. By contrast, Src could not form heterodimers with Fyn or Lyn in NEECs. We used RNA sequencing to comprehensively demonstrate that the inhibition of Src activity effectively blocked several critical tumor-promoting pathways, such as JAK/STAT, mTOR, stemness-related, and metabolism-related pathways. Results of the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay confirmed that Lyn and Fyn were critical effectors for the Src-mediated expression of tumor growth or metastasis-related molecules. Furthermore, results of the clinical ESCC samples showed that the hyperactivation of pSrc Tyr(419), Fyn Tyr(185) or Tyr(420), and Lyn Tyr(183) or Tyr(397) could be biomarkers of ESCC prognosis. This study illustrates that Src/Fyn and Src/Lyn heterodimers serve as targets for the treatment of ESCC.
PXD035962	36763541	Phosphoproteomics Profiling Defines a Target Landscape of the Basophilic Protein Kinases AKT, S6K, and RSK in Skeletal Myotubes. 	Validation of known and novel AKT, S6K and RSK targets by targeted MS	AKT, PRM, Phosphoproteomics, RSK, S6K, Skeletal muscle	Phosphorylation-dependent signal transduction plays an important role in regulating the functions and fate of skeletal muscle cells. Central players in the phospho-signaling network are the protein kinases AKT, S6K, and RSK as part of the PI3K-AKT-mTOR-S6K and RAF-MEK-ERK-RSK pathways. However, despite their functional importance, knowledge about their specific targets is incomplete because these kinases share the same basophilic substrate motif RxRxxp[ST]. To address this, we performed a multifaceted quantitative phosphoproteomics study of skeletal myotubes following kinase inhibition. Our data corroborate a cross talk between AKT and RAF, a negative feedback loop of RSK on ERK, and a putative connection between RSK and PI3K signaling. Altogether, we report a kinase target landscape containing 49 so far unknown target sites. AKT, S6K, and RSK phosphorylate numerous proteins involved in muscle development, integrity, and functions, and signaling converges on factors that are central for the skeletal muscle cytoskeleton. Whereas AKT controls insulin signaling and impinges on GTPase signaling, nuclear signaling is characteristic for RSK. Our data further support a role of RSK in glucose metabolism. Shared targets have functions in RNA maturation, stability, and translation, which suggests that these basophilic kinases establish an intricate signaling network to orchestrate and regulate processes involved in translation.
PXD039282	36763563	Sensitive Analysis of Recombinant Human Erythropoietin Glycopeptides by On-Line Phenylboronic Acid Solid-Phase Extraction Capillary Electrophoresis Mass Spectrometry. 	SENSITIVE ANALYSIS OF RECOMBINANT HUMAN ERYTHROPOIETIN GLYCOPEPTIDES BY ON-LINE PHENYLBORONIC ACID SOLID-PHASE EXTRACTION CAPILLARY ELECTROPHORESIS-MASS SPECTROMETRY	Capillary electrophoresis, glycopeptides, in-line solid-phase extraction, on-line solid-phase extraction, phenylboronic acid	In this study, several chromatographic sorbents: porous graphitic carbon (PGC), aminopropyl hydrophilic interaction (aminopropyl-HILIC), and phenylboronic acid (PBA) were assessed for the analysis of glycopeptides by on-line solid-phase extraction capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry (SPE-CE-MS). As the PBA sorbent provided the most promising results, a PBA-SPE-CE-MS method was developed for the selective and sensitive preconcentration of glycopeptides from enzymatic digests of glycoproteins. Recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) was selected as the model glycoprotein and subjected to enzymatic digestion with several proteases. The tryptic O126 and N83 glycopeptides from rhEPO were targeted to optimize the methodology. Under the optimized conditions, intraday precision, linearity, limits of detection (LODs), and microcartridge lifetime were evaluated, obtaining improved results compared to that from a previously reported TiO2-SPE-CE-MS method, especially for LODs of N-glycopeptides (up to 500 times lower than by CE-MS and up to 200 times lower than by TiO2-SPE-CE-MS). Moreover, rhEPO Glu-C digests were also analyzed by PBA-SPE-CE-MS to better characterize N24 and N38 glycopeptides. Finally, the established method was used to analyze two rhEPO products (EPOCIM and NeuroEPO plus), demonstrating its applicability in biopharmaceutical analysis. The sensitivity of the proposed PBA-SPE-CE-MS method improves the existing CE-MS methodologies for glycopeptide analysis and shows a great potential in glycoprotein analysis to deeply characterize protein glycosites even at low concentrations of the protein digest.
PXD036269	36765053	Generation of a high yield vaccine backbone for influenza B virus in embryonated chicken eggs. 	Generation of a high yield vaccine backbone for influenza B virus in embryonated chicken eggs	Influenza B virus, backbone, high yield, vaccine	Influenza B virus (IBV) strains are one of the components of seasonal influenza vaccines in both trivalent and quadrivalent formulations. The vast majority of these vaccines are produced in embryonated chickens' eggs. While optimized backbones for vaccine production in eggs exist and are in use for influenza A viruses, no such backbones exist for IBVs, resulting in unpredictable production yields. To generate an optimal vaccine seed virus backbone, we have compiled a panel of 71 IBV strains from 1940 to present day, representing the known temporal and genetic variability of IBV circulating in humans. This panel contains strains from the B/Victoria/2/87-like lineage, B/Yamagata/16/88-like lineage and the ancestral lineage that preceded their split to provide a diverse set that would help to identify a suitable backbone which can be used in combination with hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) glycoproteins from any IBV strain to be incorporated into the seasonal vaccine. We have characterized and ranked the growth profiles of the 71 IBV strains and the best performing strains were used for co-infection of eggs, followed by serial passaging to select for high-growth reassortant viruses. After serial passaging, we selected 10 clonal isolates based on their growth profiles assessed by hemagglutination and plaque-forming units. We then generated reverse genetics systems for the three clones that performed best in growth curves. The selected backbones were then used to generate different reassortant viruses with HA/NA combinations from high and low titer yielding wild type IBV. When the growth profiles of the recombinant reassortant viruses were tested, the low titer yielding HA/NA viruses with the selected backbones yielded higher titers similar to those from high titer yielding HA/NA combinations. The use of these IBV backbones with improved replication in eggs might increase yields for the influenza B virus components of seasonal influenza virus vaccines.
PXD019067	36765089	Loss of phosphatase CTDNEP1 potentiates aggressive medulloblastoma by triggering MYC amplification and genomic instability. 	Genomic and transcriptomic analysis of medulloblastoma	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cerebellum, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), neuron progenitor, phosphorylation	MYC-driven medulloblastomas are highly aggressive childhood brain tumors, however, the molecular and genetic events triggering MYC amplification and malignant transformation remain elusive. Here we report that mutations in CTDNEP1, a CTD nuclear-envelope-phosphatase, are the most significantly enriched recurrent alterations in MYC-driven medulloblastomas, and define high-risk subsets with poorer prognosis. Ctdnep1 ablation promotes the transformation of murine cerebellar progenitors into Myc-amplified medulloblastomas, resembling their human counterparts. CTDNEP1 deficiency stabilizes and activates MYC activity by elevating MYC serine-62 phosphorylation, and triggers chromosomal instability to induce p53 loss and Myc amplifications. Further, phosphoproteomics reveals that CTDNEP1 post-translationally modulates the activities of key regulators for chromosome segregation and mitotic checkpoint regulators including topoisomerase TOP2A and checkpoint kinase CHEK1. Co-targeting MYC and CHEK1 activities synergistically inhibits CTDNEP1-deficient MYC-amplified tumor growth and prolongs animal survival. Together, our studies demonstrate that CTDNEP1 is a tumor suppressor in highly aggressive MYC-driven medulloblastomas by controlling MYC activity and mitotic fidelity, pointing to a CTDNEP1-dependent targetable therapeutic vulnerability.
PXD037594	36765114	Spiders' digestive system as a source of trypsin inhibitors: functional activity of a member of atracotoxin structural family. 	Inhibitors molecules isolated from midgut and midgut diverticula of the spider Nephilingis cruentata	Inhibitors. Spider. Midgut. Midgut diverticula	Spiders are important predators of insects and their venoms play an essential role in prey capture. Spider venoms have several potential applications as pharmaceutical compounds and insecticides. However, transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of the digestive system (DS) of spiders show that DS is also a rich source of new peptidase inhibitor molecules. Biochemical, transcriptomic and proteomic data of crude DS extracts show the presence of molecules with peptidase inhibitor potential in the spider Nephilingis cruentata. Therefore, the aims of this work were to isolate and characterize molecules with trypsin inhibitory activity. The DS of fasting adult females was homogenized under acidic conditions and subjected to heat treatment. After that, samples were submitted to ion exchange batch and high-performance reverse-phase chromatography. The fractions with trypsin inhibitory activity were confirmed by mass spectrometry, identifying six molecules with inhibitory potential. The inhibitor NcTI (Nephilingis cruentata trypsin inhibitor) was kinetically characterized, showing a KD value of 30.25 nM +/- 8.13. Analysis of the tertiary structure by molecular modeling using Alpha-Fold2 indicates that the inhibitor NcTI structurally belongs to the MIT1-like atracotoxin family. This is the first time that a serine peptidase inhibitory function is attributed to this structural family and the inhibitor reactive site residue is identified. Sequence analysis indicates that these molecules may be present in the DS of other spiders and could be associated to the inactivation of prey trypsin (serine peptidase) ingested by the spiders.
PXD037272	36765657	Cell-Type-Specific Signalling Networks Impacted by Prostate Epithelial-Stromal Intercellular Communication. 	Human Prostate Cancer epithelial-fibroblast cell signalling by CTAP-MS	CAF, CTAP-MS, fibroblast, prostate	Prostate cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in males. A greater understanding of cell signalling events that occur within the prostate cancer tumour microenvironment (TME), for example, between cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and prostate epithelial or cancer cells, may identify novel biomarkers and more effective therapeutic strategies for this disease. To address this, we used cell-type-specific labelling with amino acid precursors (CTAP) to define cell-type-specific (phospho)proteomic changes that occur when prostate epithelial cells are co-cultured with normal patient-derived prostate fibroblasts (NPFs) versus matched CAFs. We report significant differences in the response of BPH-1 benign prostate epithelial cells to CAF versus NPF co-culture. Pathway analysis of proteomic changes identified significant upregulation of focal adhesion and cytoskeleton networks, and downregulation of metabolism pathways, in BPH-1 cells cultured with CAFs. In addition, co-cultured CAFs exhibited alterations in stress, DNA damage, and cytoskeletal networks. Functional validation of one of the top differentially-regulated proteins in BPH-1 cells upon CAF co-culture, transglutaminase-2 (TGM2), demonstrated that knockdown of this protein significantly reduced the proliferation and migration of prostate epithelial cells. Overall, this study provides novel insights into intercellular communication in the prostate cancer TME that may be exploited to improve patient management.
PXD035546	36766705	Taspase1 Facilitates Topoisomerase IIbeta-Mediated DNA Double-Strand Breaks Driving Estrogen-Induced Transcription. 	Identification of novel interaction partners of threonine aspartase1	affinity enrichment MS, interaction partners, threonine aspartase1	The human protease Taspase1 plays a pivotal role in developmental processes and cancerous diseases by processing critical regulators, such as the leukemia proto-oncoprotein MLL. Despite almost two decades of intense research, Taspase1's biology is, however, still poorly understood, and so far its cellular function was not assigned to a superordinate biological pathway or a specific signaling cascade. Our data, gained by methods such as co-immunoprecipitation, LC-MS/MS and Topoisomerase II DNA cleavage assays, now functionally link Taspase1 and hormone-induced, Topoisomerase IIbeta-mediated transient DNA double-strand breaks, leading to active transcription. The specific interaction with Topoisomerase IIalpha enhances the formation of DNA double-strand breaks that are a key prerequisite for stimulus-driven gene transcription. Moreover, Taspase1 alters the H3K4 epigenetic signature upon estrogen-stimulation by cleaving the chromatin-modifying enzyme MLL. As estrogen-driven transcription and MLL-derived epigenetic labelling are reduced upon Taspase1 siRNA-mediated knockdown, we finally characterize Taspase1 as a multifunctional co-activator of estrogen-stimulated transcription.
PXD037959	36768198	Proteomic Analysis of Proteins Related to Defense Responses in Arabidopsis Plants Transformed with the rolB Oncogene. 	Proteomic analysis of proteins related to defense responses in Arabidopsis plants transformed with the rolB oncogene	PYK10 complex, RACK1A, RolB plant oncogene, plant defense	During Agrobacterium rhizogenes-plant interaction, the rolB gene is transferred into the plant genome and is stably inherited in the plant's offspring. Among the numerous effects of rolB on plant metabolism, including the activation of secondary metabolism, its effect on plant defense systems has not been sufficiently studied. In this work, we performed a proteomic analysis of rolB-expressing Arabidopsis thaliana plants with particular focus on defense proteins. We found a total of 77 overexpressed proteins and 64 underexpressed proteins in rolB-transformed plants using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and MALDI mass spectrometry. In the rolB-transformed plants, we found a reduced amount of scaffold proteins RACK1A, RACK1B, and RACK1C, which are known as receptors for activated C-kinase 1. The proteomic analysis showed that rolB could suppress the plant immune system by suppressing the RNA-binding proteins GRP7, CP29B, and CP31B, which action are similar to the action of type-III bacterial effectors. At the same time, rolB plants induce the massive biosynthesis of protective proteins VSP1 and VSP2, as well as pathogenesis-related protein PR-4, which are markers of the activated jasmonate pathway. The increased contents of glutathione-S-transferases F6, F2, F10, U19, and DHAR1 and the osmotin-like defense protein OSM34 were found. The defense-associated protein PCaP1, which is required for oligogalacturonide-induced priming and immunity, was upregulated. Moreover, rolB-transformed plants showed the activation of all components of the PYK10 defense complex that is involved in the metabolism of glucosinolates. We hypothesized that various defense systems activated by rolB protect the host plant from competing phytopathogens and created an effective ecological niche for A. rhizogenes. A RolB --> RACK1A signaling module was proposed that might exert most of the rolB-mediated effects on plant physiology. Our proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD037959.
PXD036830	36768797	Expression of the Z Variant of alpha1-Antitrypsin Suppresses Hepatic Cholesterol Biosynthesis in Transgenic Zebrafish. 	Hepatic processing of Z variant alpha-1-antitrypsin alters ERAD capacity to regulate cholesterol biosynthesis in a zebrafish model	ERAD, SERPINA1, alpha-1-antitrypsin, liver, zebrafish	Individuals homozygous for the Pi*Z allele of SERPINA1 (ZAAT) are susceptible to lung disease due to insufficient alpha1-antitrypsin secretion into the circulation and may develop liver disease due to compromised protein folding that leads to inclusion body formation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of hepatocytes. Transgenic zebrafish expressing human ZAAT show no signs of hepatic accumulation despite displaying serum insufficiency, suggesting the defect in ZAAT secretion occurs independently of its tendency to form inclusion bodies. In this study, proteomic, transcriptomic, and biochemical analysis provided evidence of suppressed Srebp2-mediated cholesterol biosynthesis in the liver of ZAAT-expressing zebrafish. To investigate the basis for this perturbation, CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing was used to manipulate ER protein quality control factors. Mutation of erlec1 resulted in a further suppression in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway, confirming a role for this ER lectin in targeting misfolded ZAAT for ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Mutation of the two ER mannosidase homologs enhanced ZAAT secretion without inducing hepatic accumulation. These insights into hepatic ZAAT processing suggest potential therapeutic targets to improve secretion and alleviate serum insufficiency in this form of the alpha1-antitrypsin disease.
PXD039480	36768928	Surfaceome Profiling of Cell Lines and Patient-Derived Xenografts Confirm FGFR4, NCAM1, CD276, and Highlight AGRL2, JAM3, and L1CAM as Surface Targets for Rhabdomyosarcoma. 	Rhabdomyosarcoma surfaceome profiling with six fusion-positive (FP) RMS cell lines, five fusion-negative (FN) RMS cell lines, and three ARMS patient-derived xenografts (PDXs)	Surfaceome, rhabdomyosarcoma	Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is the most common soft tissue sarcoma in children. The prognosis for patients with high-grade and metastatic disease is still very poor, and survivors are burdened with long-lasting side effects. Therefore, more effective and less toxic therapies are needed. Surface proteins are ideal targets for antibody-based therapies, like bispecific antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates, or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells. Specific surface targets for RMS are scarce. Here, we performed a surfaceome profiling based on differential centrifugation enrichment of surface/membrane proteins and detection by LC-MS on six fusion-positive (FP) RMS cell lines, five fusion-negative (FN) RMS cell lines, and three RMS patient-derived xenografts (PDXs). A total of 699 proteins were detected in the three RMS groups. Ranking based on expression levels and comparison to expression in normal MRC-5 fibroblasts and myoblasts, followed by statistical analysis, highlighted known RMS targets such as FGFR4, NCAM1, and CD276/B7-H3, and revealed AGRL2, JAM3, MEGF10, GPC4, CADM2, as potential targets for immunotherapies of RMS. L1CAM expression was investigated in RMS tissues, and strong L1CAM expression was observed in more than 80% of alveolar RMS tumors, making it a practicable target for antibody-based therapies of alveolar RMS.
PXD037767	36769256	Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1) Infected Cell Protein 0 (ICP0) Targets of Ubiquitination during Productive Infection of Primary Adult Sensory Neurons. 	Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1) Infected Cell Protein 0 (ICP0) Targets of Ubiquitination during Productive Infection in Primary Adult Sensory Neurons	HSV-1, ICP0, Neuron, Ubiquitination	Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) enters sensory neurons with the potential for productive or latent infection. For either outcome, HSV-1 must curtail the intrinsic immune response, regulate viral gene expression, and remove host proteins that could restrict viral processes. Infected cell protein 0 (ICP0), a virus-encoded E3 ubiquitin ligase, supports these processes by mediating the transfer of ubiquitin to target proteins to change their location, alter their function, or induce their degradation. To identify ubiquitination targets of ICP0 during productive infection in sensory neurons, we immunoprecipitated ubiquitinated proteins from primary adult sensory neurons infected with HSV-1 KOS (wild-type), HSV-1 n212 (expressing truncated, defective ICP0), and uninfected controls using anti-ubiquitin antibody FK2 (recognizing K29, K48, K63 and monoubiquitinated proteins), followed by LC-MS/MS and comparative analyses. We identified 40 unique proteins ubiquitinated by ICP0 and 17 ubiquitinated by both ICP0 and host mechanisms, of which High Mobility Group Protein I/Y (HMG I/Y) and TAR DNA Binding Protein 43 (TDP43) were selected for further analysis. We show that ICP0 ubiquitinates HMG I/Y and TDP43, altering protein expression at specific time points during productive HSV-1 infection, demonstrating that ICP0 manipulates the sensory neuronal environment in a time-dependent manner to regulate infection outcome in neurons.
PXD039007	36769339	Deep Paleoproteotyping and Microtomography Revealed No Heart Defect nor Traces of Embalming in the Cardiac Relics of Blessed Pauline Jaricot. 	Proteomic analysis of the cardiac relic of Blessed Pauline Jaricot	fungi, heart, metaproteomics, microorganisms, paleoproteomics, proteins, proteotyping	Scientific examination of the heart of Blessed Pauline Jaricot-a French missionary figure-was carried out in 2022. As tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping has proven to be valuable to obtain the broad taxonomic repertoire of a given sample without any a priori information, we aimed at exploring the conditions of preservation of the relics and possible conditions of death. Metaproteomics and high-resolution microtomography imaging approaches were combined. A dataset comprising 6731 high-resolution MS/MS spectra was acquired and 968 of these spectra could be assigned to specific peptidic biomolecules. Based on the taxonomical information encompassed by the identified peptide sequences, 5 phyla were identified amongst eukaryota (94% of the biomass): Ascomycota (55%), with the species Aspergillus versicolor, Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Aspergillus glaucus, corresponding to expected cadaverous fungal flora; Chordata (42%), represented by a unique species, Homo sapiens; Streptophyta (3%); and Arthropoda (traces). Bacteria (6% of the biomass) were poorly represented. No trace of embalming substance could be retrieved, nor any pathogens. Imaging evidenced no heart defect nor embalming traces. No evidence that was inconsistent with natural and spontaneous conservation could be retrieved. This study prefigures the power of modern molecular techniques such as paleoproteotyping coupled to microtomography to gain insight into historical relics.
PXD039195	36770792	Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Association between the Pathways of Glutathione and alpha-Linolenic Acid Metabolism and Lanthanum Accumulation in Tea Plants. 	Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Association between the Path-ways of Glutathione and alpha-Linolenic Acid Metabolism and Lanthanum Accumulation in Tea Plants	genotypes, lanthanum, rare earth elements, tea, transcriptome., ultrastructure	Lanthanum can affect the growth and development of the tea plant. Tieguanyin (TGY) and Shuixian (SX) cultivars of Camellia sinensis were selected to explore the mechanism underlying the accumulation of lanthanum (tea plants' most accumulated rare earth element) through proteomics. Roots and fresh leaves of TGY and SX with low- and high-accumulation potential for lanthanum, respectively, were studied; 845 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified. Gene ontology analysis showed that DEPs were involved in redox processes and related to molecular functions. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes metabolic pathway analysis showed that DEPs were associated with glutathione (GSH) and alpha-linolenic acid metabolism, plant pathogen interaction, and oxidative phosphorylation. Thirty-seven proteins in the GSH metabolism pathway showed significant differences, wherein 18 GSH S-transferases showed differential expression patterns in the root system. Compared with the control, expression ratios of GST (TEA004130.1) and GST (TEA032216.1) in TGY leaves were 6.84 and 4.06, respectively, after lanthanum treatment; these were significantly higher than those in SX leaves. The LOX2.1 (TEA011765.1) and LOX2.1 (TEA011776.1) expression ratios in the alpha-linolenic acid metabolic pathway were 2.44 and 6.43, respectively, in TGY roots, which were significantly higher than those in SX roots. The synthesis of specific substances induces lanthanum-associated defense responses in TGY, which is of great significance for plant yield stability.
PXD005640	36771657	Light-Induced Flavonoid Biosynthesis in Sinopodophyllum hexandrum with High-Altitude Adaptation. 	Podophyllum Hexandrum Royle MALDI-TOF-MS/MS	Altitude, MALDI-TOF-MS/MS, Podophyllum Hexandrum Royle	Sinopodophyllum hexandrum is a perennial alpine herb producing the anti-cancer metabolite podophyllotoxin (PPT). Although the adaptation of S. hexandrum to high altitudes has been demonstrated and the effects of temperature, precipitation, and UV-B light on plant growth and metabolite accumulation have been studied, knowledge on the role of flavonoid biosynthesis in adapting to high altitudes is limited. In this study, light intensity, amount and type of flavonoids, and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and genes (DEGs) at 2300 and 3300 m were analyzed by HPLC, proteomic, transcriptomic, and qRT-PCR analysis. We found that higher light intensity correlated with greater flavonoid, flavonol, and anthocyanin content as well as higher anthocyanin to total flavonoid and flavonol ratios observed at the higher altitude. Based on proteomic and transcriptomic analyses, nine DEPs and 41 DEGs were identified to be involved in flavonoid biosynthesis and light response at 3300 m. The relative expression of nine genes (PAL, CHS1, IFRL, ANS, MYB4, BHLH137, CYP6, PPO1, and ABCB19) involved in flavonoid biosynthesis and seven genes (HSP18.1, HSP70, UBC4, ERF5, ERF9, APX3, and EX2) involved in light stress were observed to be up-regulated at 3300 m compared with 2300 m. These findings indicate that light intensity may play a regulatory role in enhancing flavonoid accumulation that allows S. hexandrum to adapt to elevated-altitude coupled with high light intensity.
PXD040225	36773106	Retinal pathological features and proteome signatures of Alzheimer's disease. 	Retinal Pathological Features and Proteome Signatures of Alzheimer's Disease	Alzheimers disease, Retina, brain	Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathologies were discovered in the accessible neurosensory retina. However, their exact nature and topographical distribution, particularly in the early stages of functional impairment, and how they relate to disease progression in the brain remain largely unknown. To better understand the pathological features of AD in the retina, we conducted an extensive histopathological and biochemical investigation of postmortem retina and brain tissues from 86 human donors. Quantitative examination of superior and inferior temporal retinas from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD patients compared to those with normal cognition (NC) revealed significant increases in amyloid beta-protein (Abeta42) forms and novel intraneuronal Abeta oligomers (AbetaOi), which were closely associated with exacerbated retinal macrogliosis, microgliosis, and tissue atrophy. These pathologies were unevenly distributed across retinal layers and geometrical areas, with the inner layers and peripheral subregions exhibiting most pronounced accumulations in the MCI and AD versus NC retinas. While microgliosis was increased in the retina of these patients, the proportion of microglial cells engaging in Abeta uptake was reduced. Female AD patients exhibited higher levels of retinal microgliosis than males. Notably, retinal Abeta42, S100 calcium-binding protein B(+) macrogliosis, and atrophy correlated with severity of brain Abeta pathology, tauopathy, and atrophy, and most retinal pathologies reflected Braak staging. All retinal biomarkers correlated with the cognitive scores, with retinal Abeta42, far-peripheral AbetaOi and microgliosis displaying the strongest correlations. Proteomic analysis of AD retinas revealed activation of specific inflammatory and neurodegenerative processes and inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation/mitochondrial, and photoreceptor-related pathways. This study identifies and maps retinopathy in MCI and AD patients, demonstrating the quantitative relationship with brain pathology and cognition, and may lead to reliable retinal biomarkers for noninvasive retinal screening and monitoring of AD.
PXD039517	36773293	Nitric oxide suppression by secreted frizzled-related protein 2 drives retinoblastoma. 	Y79 retinoblastoma cell line surface proteome	cell surface proteome, retinoblastoma	Retinoblastoma is a cancer of the infant retina primarily driven by loss of the Rb tumor suppressor gene, which is undruggable. Here, we report an autocrine signaling, mediated by secreted frizzled-related protein 2 (SFRP2), which suppresses nitric oxide and enables retinoblastoma growth. We show that coxsackievirus and adenovirus receptor (CXADR) is the cell-surface receptor for SFRP2 in retinoblastoma cells; that CXADR functions as a "dependence receptor," transmitting a growth-inhibitory signal in the absence of SFRP2; and that the balance between SFRP2 and CXADR determines nitric oxide production. Accordingly, high SFRP2 RNA expression correlates with high-risk histopathologic features in retinoblastoma. Targeting SFRP2 signaling by SFRP2-binding peptides or by a pharmacological inhibitor rapidly induces nitric oxide and profoundly inhibits retinoblastoma growth in orthotopic xenograft models. These results reveal a cytokine signaling pathway that regulates nitric oxide production and retinoblastoma cell proliferation and is amenable to therapeutic intervention.
PXD038629	36773692	Selenoprotein S Interacts with the Replication and Transcription Complex of SARS-CoV-2 by Binding nsp7. 	Selennoprotein S interacts with the replication and transcription complex of the SARS-CoV-2 by binding nsp7	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, VIMP, nsp12, nsp8, selenos	The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) replicates and evades detection using ER membranes and their associated protein machinery. Among these hijacked human proteins is selenoprotein S (selenos). This selenoprotein takes part in the protein quality control, signaling, and the regulation of cytokine secretion. While the role of selenos in the viral life cycle is not yet known, it has been reported to interact with SARS-CoV-2 nonstructural protein 7 (nsp7), a viral protein essential for the replication of the virus. We set to study whether selenos and nsp7 interact directly and if they can still bind when nsp7 is bound to the replication and transcription complex of the virus. Using biochemical assays, we show that selenos binds directly to nsp7. In addition, we found that selenos can bind to nsp7 when it is in a complex with the coronavirus's minimal replication and transcription complex, comprised of nsp7, nsp8, and the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase nsp12. In addition, through crosslinking experiments, we mapped the interaction sites of selenos and nsp7 in the replication complex and showed that the hydrophobic segment of selenos is essential for binding to nsp7. This arrangement leaves an extended helix and the intrinsically disordered segment of selenos-including the reactive selenocysteine-exposed and free to potentially recruit additional proteins to the replication and transcription complex.
PXD030816	36774438	The ubiquitination landscape of the influenza A virus polymerase. 	The ubiquitin landscape of the Influenza A Virus polymerase	Influenza A virus, K-epsilon-GG motif, PA, PB1, PB2, affinity enrichment, ubiquitination, viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase	During influenza A virus (IAV) infections, viral proteins are targeted by cellular E3 ligases for modification with ubiquitin. Here, we decipher and functionally explore the ubiquitination landscape of the IAV polymerase proteins during infection of human alveolar epithelial cells by applying mass spectrometry analysis of immuno-purified K-epsilon-GG (di-glycyl)-remnant-bearing peptides. We have identified 59 modified lysines across the three subunits, PB2, PB1 and PA of the viral polymerase of which 17 distinctively affect mRNA transcription, vRNA replication and the generation of recombinant viruses via non-proteolytic mechanisms. Moreover, further functional and in silico analysis indicate that ubiquitination at K578 in the PB1 thumb domain is mechanistically linked to dynamic structural transitions of the viral polymerase that are required for vRNA replication. Mutations K578A and K578R differentially affect the generation of recombinant viruses by impeding cRNA and vRNA synthesis, NP binding as well as polymerase dimerization. Collectively, our results demonstrate that the ubiquitin-mediated charge neutralization at PB1-K578 disrupts the interaction to an unstructured loop in the PB2 N-terminus that is required to coordinate polymerase dimerization and facilitate vRNA replication. This provides evidence that IAV exploits the cellular ubiquitin system to modulate the activity of the viral polymerase for viral replication.
PXD035543	36774536	An enhanced network of energy metabolism, lysine acetylation, and growth-promoting protein accumulation is associated with heterosis in elite hybrid rice. 	Positive feedback between TOR singling,energy metabolism and lysine acetylation drives heterosis in elite hybrid rice	Hybrid rice, TORC1, energy metabolism, lysine acetylation	Heterosis refers to the superior performance of a hybrid compared with its parental lines. Although several genetic and molecular models have been proposed to explain heterosis, it remains unclear how hybrid cells integrate complementary gene expression or activity to drive heterotic growth. In this work, we show that accumulation of growth-promoting and energy metabolism proteins, enhanced energy metabolism activities, and increased protein lysine acetylation were associated with superior growth of the panicle meristem in the elite hybrid rice Shanyou 63 relative to its parental varieties. Metabolism of nuclear/cytosolic acetyl-coenzyme A was also enhanced in the hybrid, which paralleled increases in histone H3 acetylation to selectively target the expression of growth-promoting and metabolic genes. Lysine acetylation of cellular proteins, including TARGET OF RAPAMYCIN complex 1, ribosomal proteins, and energy metabolism enzymes, was also augmented and/or remodeled to modulate their activities. The data indicate that an enhanced network of energy-producing metabolic activity and growth-promoting histone acetylation/gene expression in the hybrid could contribute to its superior growth rate and may constitute a model to explain heterosis.
PXD033192	36776379	New panel of biomarkers to discriminate between amelanotic and melanotic metastatic melanoma. 	Proteomic analysis of pigmented and amelanotic melanoma cells	amelanotic melanoma, melanoma biomarkers	Melanoma is a form of skin cancer that can rapidly invade distant organs. A distinctive feature of melanomas is their pigmentation status, as melanin is present in most skin melanomas, whilst many metastatic tumors could become amelanotic. Besides the obvious malfunction of the key genes of the melanin pathway, the amelanotic tumors could bear a characteristic molecular signature accounting for their aggressivity. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics we report here a distinctive panel of biomarkers for amelanotic aggressive melanoma that differ from the less invasive pigmented cells. The developed method allows the label-free quantification of proteins identified by LC-MS/MS analysis. We found a set of proteins comprising AHNAK, MYOF, ANXA1, CAPN2, ASPH, EPHA2, THBS1, TGM2, ACTN4 along with proteins involved in cell adhesion/migration (integrins, PLEC, FSCN1, FN1) that are highly expressed in amelanotic melanoma. Accompanying the down regulation of pigmentation specific proteins such as tyrosinase and TYRP1, these biomarkers are highly specific for a type of highly invasive melanoma. Interestingly, the LC-MS/MS proteomics analysis in hypoxia revealed that the abundance of this specific set of proteins found in normoxia was rather unaltered in these conditions. These biomarkers could therefore predict a metastatic behaviour for the amelanotic cells in the early stages of the tumor development and thus serve in melanoma prognostic. Applying this algorithm to related databases including melanoma samples published by independent laboratories/public databases we confirm the specificity of the newly found signatures. Overall, we begin to unravel the molecular alterations in the amelanotic melanoma and how basic proteomics offers insights into how to assess the clinical, pathological and misdiagnosis differences between the main subtypes of melanoma.
PXD037660	36776920	Label-Free Proteomics of Oral Mucosa Tissue to Identify Potential Biomarkers That Can Flag Predilection of Precancerous Lesions to Oral Cell Carcinoma: A Preliminary Study. 	Label free proteomics of oral mucosa tissue to identify potential biomarkers that can flag predilection of precancerous lesions to oral cell carcinoma: A Preliminary study	Oral squamous cell carcinoma, differentially expressed proteins, erythroplakia, label-free proteomics, leukoplakia, malignant transformation, oxidative stress	Oral squamous cell carcinomas are mostly preceded by precancerous lesions such as leukoplakia and erythroplakia. Our study is aimed at identifying potential biomarker proteins in precancerous lesions of leukoplakia and erythroplakia that can flag their transformation to oral cancer. Four biological replicate samples from clinical phenotypes of healthy control, leukoplakia, erythroplakia, and oral carcinoma were annotated based on clinical screening and histopathological evaluation of buccal mucosa tissue. Differentially expressed proteins were delineated using a label-free quantitative proteomic experiment done on an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid mass spectrometer in three technical replicate sets of samples. Raw files were processed using MaxQuant version 2.0.1.0, and downstream analysis was done via Perseus version 1.6.15.0. Validation included functional annotation based on biological processes and pathways using the ClueGO plug-in of Cytoscape. Hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis were performed using the ClustVis tool. Across control, leukoplakia, and cancer, L-lactate dehydrogenase A chain, plectin, and WD repeat-containing protein 1 were upregulated, whereas thioredoxin 1 and spectrin alpha chain, nonerythrocytic 1 were downregulated. Across control, erythroplakia, and cancer, L-lactate dehydrogenase A chain was upregulated whereas aldehyde dehydrogenase 2, peroxiredoxin 1, heat shock 70 kDa protein 1B, and spectrin alpha chain, nonerythrocytic 1 were downregulated. We found that proteins involved in leukoplakia were associated with alteration in cytoskeletal disruption and glycolysis, while in erythroplakia, they were associated with alteration in response to oxidative stress and glycolysis across phenotypes. Hierarchical clustering subgrouped half of precancerous samples under the main branch of the control and the remaining half under carcinoma. Similarly, principal component analysis identified segregated clusters of control, precancerous lesions, and cancer, but erythroplakia phenotypes, in particular, overlapped more with the cancer cluster. Qualitative and quantitative protein signatures across control, precancer, and cancer phenotypes explain possible functional outcomes that dictate malignant transformation to oral carcinoma.
PXD034177	36777508	NADPH oxidase 1 in chronic pancreatitis-activated pancreatic stellate cells facilitates the progression of pancreatic cancer. 	NADPH Oxidase 1 in Chronic Pancreatitis-Activated Pancreatic Stellate Cells Facilitates the Progression of Pancreatic Cancer	MMP-9, NADPH oxidase 1, Twist1, p38 MAPK, pancreatic stellate cells, peroxiredoxin	Patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis (CP) have a higher risk of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) compared to the general population. For instance, the presence of an activated pancreatic stellate cell (PaSC)-rich stroma in CP has facilitated the progression of non-invasive pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) lesions to invasive PDAC. We have previously found that in a mouse model of CP, NADPH oxidase 1 (Nox1) in activated PaSCs forms fibrotic tissue and up-regulates both matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 9 and the transcription factor Twist1. Yet, the role and mechanism of Nox1 in activated PaSCs from mice with CP (CP-activated PaSCs) in the progression of PDAC is unknown. For that, we tested the ability of Nox1 in CP-activated PaSCs to facilitate the growth of pancreatic cancer cells, and the mechanisms involved in these effects by identifying proteins in the secretome of CP-activated PaSCs whose production were Nox1-dependent. We found that, in vitro, Nox1 evoked a pro-invasive and cancer-promoting phenotype in CP-activated PaSCs via Twist1/MMP-9 expression, causing changes in the extracellular matrix composition. In vivo, Nox1 in CP-activated PaSCs facilitated tumor growth and stromal expansion. Using mass spectrometry, we identified proteins protecting from endoplasmic reticulum, oxidative and metabolic stresses in the secretome of CP-activated PaSCs whose production was Nox1-dependent, including peroxiredoxins (Prdx1 and Prdx4), and thioredoxin reductase 1. In conclusion, inhibiting the Nox1 signaling in activated PaSCs from patients with CP at early stages can reduce the reorganization of extracellular matrix, and the protection of neoplastic cells from cellular stresses, ameliorating the progression of PDAC.
PXD039143	36778002	Characterizing metabolic drivers of Clostridioides difficile infection with activity-based hydrazine probes. 	Characterizing metabolic drivers of Clostridioides difficile infection with activity-based hydrazine probes	ABPP, C. difficile, cofactor, hydrazine, metabolism	Many enzymes require post-translational modifications or cofactor machinery for primary function. As these catalytically essential moieties are highly regulated, they act as dual sensors and chemical handles for context-dependent metabolic activity. Clostridioides difficile is a major nosocomial pathogen that infects the colon. Energy generating metabolism, particularly through amino acid Stickland fermentation, is central to colonization and persistence of this pathogen during infection. Here using activity-based protein profiling (ABPP), we revealed Stickland enzyme activity is a biomarker for C. difficile infection (CDI) and annotated two such cofactor-dependent Stickland reductases. We structurally characterized the cysteine-derived pyruvoyl cofactors of D-proline and glycine reductase in C. difficile cultures and showed through cofactor monitoring that their activity is regulated by their respective amino acid substrates. Proline reductase was consistently active in toxigenic C. difficile, confirming the enzyme to be a major metabolic driver of CDI. Further, activity-based hydrazine probes were shown to be active site-directed inhibitors of proline reductase. As such, this enzyme activity, via its druggable cofactor modality, is a promising therapeutic target that could allow for the repopulation of bacteria that compete with C. difficile for proline and therefore restore colonization resistance against C. difficile in the gut.
PXD033406	36778858	The hidden microbial ecosystem in the perennial ice from a Pyrenean ice cave. 	Functional characterization of microbial communities from glacial ecosystems	2-DIGE, 2DE, MALDI-TOF MS, culturomics, metaproteomics	Over the last years, perennial ice deposits located within caves have awakened interest as places to study microbial communities since they represent unique cryospheric archives of climate change. Since the beginning of the twentieth century, the temperature has gradually increased, and it is estimated that by the end of this century the increase in average temperature could be around 4.0degreesC. In this context of global warming the ice deposits of the Pyrenean caves are undergoing a significant regression. Among this type of caves, that on the Cotiella Massif in the Southern Pyrenees is one of the southernmost studied in Europe. These types of caves house microbial communities which have so far been barely explored, and therefore their study is necessary. In this work, the microbial communities of the Pyrenean ice cave A294 were identified using metabarcoding techniques. In addition, research work was carried out to analyze how the age and composition of the ice affect the composition of the bacterial and microeukaryotic populations. Finally, the in vivo effect of climate change on the cellular machinery that allow microorganisms to live with increasing temperatures has been studied using proteomic techniques.
PXD037306	36779763	Transferrin Receptor Protein 1 Cooperates with mGluR2 To Mediate the Internalization of Rabies Virus and SARS-CoV-2. 	Screening human protein interacting with mGluR2	protein interaction	Identification of bona fide functional receptors and elucidation of the mechanism of receptor-mediated virus entry are important to reveal targets for developing therapeutics against rabies virus (RABV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Our previous studies suggest that metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 2 (mGluR2) functions as an entry receptor for RABV in vitro, and is an important internalization factor for SARS-CoV-2 in vitro and in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that mGluR2 facilitates RABV internalization in vitro and infection in vivo. We found that transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) interacts with mGluR2 and internalizes with mGluR2 and RABV in the same clathrin-coated pit. Knockdown of TfR1 blocks agonist-triggered internalization of mGluR2. Importantly, TfR1 also interacts with the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and is important for SARS-CoV-2 internalization. Our findings identify a novel axis (mGluR2-TfR1 axis) used by RABV and SARS-CoV-2 for entry, and reveal TfR1 as a potential target for therapeutics against RABV and SARS-CoV-2. IMPORTANCE We previously found that metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 2 (mGluR2) is an entry receptor for RABV in vitro, and an important internalization factor for SARS-CoV-2 in vitro and in vivo. However, whether mGluR2 is required for RABV infection in vivo was unknown. In addition, how mGluR2 mediates the internalization of RABV and SARS-CoV-2 needed to be resolved. Here, we found that mGluR2 gene knockout mice survived a lethal challenge with RABV. To our knowledge, mGluR2 is the first host factor to be definitively shown to play an important role in RABV street virus infection in vivo. We further found that transferrin receptor protein 1 (TfR1) directly interacts and cooperates with mGluR2 to regulate the endocytosis of RABV and SARS-CoV-2. Our study identifies a novel axis (mGluR2-TfR1 axis) used by RABV and SARS-CoV-2 for entry and opens a new door for the development of therapeutics against RABV and SARS-CoV-2.
PXD039248	36779809	Effect of Processing Methods of Human Saliva on the Proteomic Profile and Protein-Mediated Biological Processes. 	Effect of processing methods of human saliva on proteomic profile and protein-mediated biological processes	microbiology, saliva, sterilization, study model	The use of saliva as a protein source prior to microbiological and biological assays requires previous processing. However, the effect of these processing methods on the proteomic profile of saliva has not been tested. Stimulated human saliva was collected from eight healthy volunteers. Non-processed saliva was compared with 0.22 mum filtered, 0.45 mum filtered, and pasteurized saliva, by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD039248. The effect of processed saliva on microbial adhesion was tested using bacterial and fungus species and in biological cell behavior using HaCaT immortalized human keratinocytes. Two hundred and seventy-eight proteins were identified in non-processed saliva, of which 54 proteins (=~19%) were exclusive. Saliva processing reduced identified proteins to 222 (=~80%) for the 0.22 mum group, 219 (=~79%) for the 0.45 mum group, and 201 (=~72%) for the pasteurized saliva, compared to non-processed saliva. The proteomic profile showed similar molecular functions and biological processes. The different saliva processing methods did not alter microbial adhesion (ANOVA, p > 0.05). Interestingly, pasteurized saliva reduced keratinocyte cell viability. Saliva processing methods tested reduced the proteomic profile diversity of saliva but maintained similar molecular functions and biological processes, not interfering with microbial adhesion and cell viability, except for pasteurization, which reduced cell viability.
PXD037722	36780485	A novel approach to interrogating the effects of chemical warfare agent exposure using organ-on-a-chip technology and multiomic analysis. 	A Novel Approach to Interrogating the Effects of Chemical Warfare Agent Exposure Using Organ-on-a-Chip Technology and Multiomic Analysis	Liver, lcms, multiomics, organ on a chip, organophosphate	Organ-on-a-chip platforms are utilized in global bioanalytical and toxicological studies as a way to reduce materials and increase throughput as compared to in vivo based experiments. These platforms bridge the infrastructure and regulatory gaps between in vivo animal work and human systems, with models that exemplify active biological pathways. In conjunction with the advent of increased capabilities associated with next generation sequencing and mass spectrometry based '-omic' technologies, organ-on-a-chip platforms provide an excellent opportunity to investigate the global changes at multiple biological levels, including the transcriptome, proteome and metabolome. When investigated concurrently, a complete profile of cellular and regulatory perturbations can be characterized following treatment with specific agonists. In this study, global effects were observed and analyzed following liver chip exposure to the chemical warfare agent, VX. Even though the primary mechanism of action of VX (i.e. acetylcholinesterase inhibition) is well characterized, recent in vivo studies suggest additional protein binding partners that are implicated in metabolism and cellular energetic pathways. In addition, secondary toxicity associated with peripheral organ systems, especially in human tissues, is not well defined. Our results demonstrate the potential of utilizing an organ-on-a-chip platform as a surrogate system to traditional in vivo studies. This is realized by specifically indicating significant dysregulation of several cellular processes in response to VX exposure including but not limited to amino acid synthesis, drug metabolism, and energetics pathways.
PXD036826	36781298	Phosphoproteomic analysis of metformin signaling in colorectal cancer cells elucidates mechanism of action and potential therapeutic opportunities. 	Deep Phosphoproteomic Elucidation of Metformin-Signaling in Heterogenous Colorectal Cancer Cells	DIA-MS, colorectal cancer, metformin, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: The biguanide drug metformin is a safe and widely prescribed drug for type 2 diabetes. Interestingly, hundreds of clinical trials have been set to evaluate the potential role of metformin in the prevention and treatment of cancer including colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the "metformin signaling" remains controversial. AIMS AND METHODS: To interrogate cell signaling induced by metformin in CRC and explore the druggability of the metformin-rewired phosphorylation network, we performed integrative analysis of phosphoproteomics, bioinformatics, and cell proliferation assays on a panel of 12 molecularly heterogeneous CRC cell lines. Using the high-resolute data-independent analysis mass spectrometry (DIA-MS), we monitored a total of 10,142 proteins and 56,080 phosphosites (P-sites) in CRC cells upon a short- and a long-term metformin treatment. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We found that metformin tended to primarily remodel cell signaling in the long-term and only minimally regulated the total proteome expression levels. Strikingly, the phosphorylation signaling response to metformin was highly heterogeneous in the CRC panel, based on a network analysis inferring kinase/phosphatase activities and cell signaling reconstruction. A "MetScore" was determined to assign the metformin relevance of each P-site, revealing new and robust phosphorylation nodes and pathways in metformin signaling. Finally, we leveraged the metformin P-site signature to identify pharmacodynamic interactions and confirmed a number of candidate metformin-interacting drugs, including navitoclax, a BCL-2/BCL-xL inhibitor. Together, we provide a comprehensive phosphoproteomic resource to explore the metformin-induced cell signaling for potential cancer therapeutics. This resource can be accessed at https://yslproteomics.shinyapps.io/Metformin/.
PXD031186	36781836	Dasabuvir suppresses esophageal squamous cell carcinoma growth in vitro and in vivo through targeting ROCK1. 	Proteomics analysis report of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma treated by Dasabuvir	dasabuvir	Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is an upper gastrointestinal cancer with high morbidity and mortality. New strategies are urgently needed to prolong patients' survival. Through screening FDA-approved drugs, we found dasabuvir, a drug approved for hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment, suppressed ESCC proliferation. Dasabuvir could inhibit the growth of ESCC cells in a time and dose-dependent manner and arrested cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase. The antitumor activity was further validated in vivo using patient-derived xenograft tumor models. In terms of mechanism, we unveil that dasabuvir is a Rho-associated protein kinase 1 (ROCK1) inhibitor. Dasabuvir can bind to ROCK1 and suppress its kinase activity, thus downregulating the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 by ROCK1 and the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) and cyclin D1. These results provide evidence that dasabuvir suppresses ESCC growth in vivo and in vitro through blocking ROCK1/ERK signaling pathway.
PXD033828	36781840	FKBP51 plays an essential role in Akt ubiquitination that requires Hsp90 and PHLPP. 	The role of FKBP51 in the activation of Akt oncogenic pathway	FKBP51, LC-MS-MS, interactome	FKBP51 plays a relevant role in sustaining cancer cells, particularly melanoma. This cochaperone participates in several signaling pathways. FKBP51 forms a complex with Akt and PHLPP, which is reported to dephosphorylate Akt. Given the recent discovery of a spliced FKBP51 isoform, in this paper, we interrogate the canonical and spliced isoforms in regulation of Akt activation. We show that the TPR domain of FKBP51 mediates Akt ubiquitination at K63, which is an essential step for Akt activation. The spliced FKBP51, lacking such domain, cannot link K63-Ub residues to Akt. Unexpectedly, PHLPP silencing does not foster phosphorylation of Akt, and its overexpression even induces phosphorylation of Akt. PHLPP stabilizes levels of E3-ubiquitin ligase TRAF6 and supports K63-ubiquitination of Akt. The interactome profile of FKBP51 from melanoma cells highlights a relevant role for PHLPP in improving oncogenic hallmarks, particularly, cell proliferation.
PXD038845	36781850	Proteasome inhibition targets the KMT2A transcriptional complex in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 	KMT2A rearranged B lineage infant ALL cell line SEM treated with bortezomib LC-MS/MS	Acute Leukemia, B cell, Blood, Spectrum counting	Rearrangments in Histone-lysine-N-methyltransferase 2A (KMT2Ar) are associated with pediatric, adult and therapy-induced acute leukemias. Infants with KMT2Ar acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have a poor prognosis with an event-free-survival of 38%. Herein we evaluate 1116 FDA approved compounds in primary KMT2Ar infant ALL specimens and identify a sensitivity to proteasome inhibition. Upon exposure to this class of agents, cells demonstrate a depletion of histone H2B monoubiquitination (H2Bub1) and histone H3 lysine 79 dimethylation (H3K79me2) at KMT2A target genes in addition to a downregulation of the KMT2A gene expression signature, providing evidence that it targets the KMT2A transcriptional complex and alters the epigenome. A cohort of relapsed/refractory KMT2Ar patients treated with this approach on a compassionate basis had an overall response rate of 90%. In conclusion, we report on a high throughput drug screen in primary pediatric leukemia specimens whose results translate into clinically meaningful responses. This innovative treatment approach is now being evaluated in a multi-institutional upfront trial for infants with newly diagnosed ALL.
PXD037867	36782060	MYT1L haploinsufficiency in human neurons and mice causes autism-associated phenotypes that can be reversed by genetic and pharmacologic intervention. 	MYT1L haploinsufficiency in human neurons and mice causes autism-associated phenotypes that can be reversed by genetic and pharmacologic intervention	MYT1L, autism, human neurons	MYT1L is an autism spectrum disorder (ASD)-associated transcription factor that is expressed in virtually all neurons throughout life. How MYT1L mutations cause neurological phenotypes and whether they can be targeted remains enigmatic. Here, we examine the effects of MYT1L deficiency in human neurons and mice. Mutant mice exhibit neurodevelopmental delays with thinner cortices, behavioural phenotypes, and gene expression changes that resemble those of ASD patients. MYT1L target genes, including WNT and NOTCH, are activated upon MYT1L depletion and their chemical inhibition can rescue delayed neurogenesis in vitro. MYT1L deficiency also causes upregulation of the main cardiac sodium channel, SCN5A, and neuronal hyperactivity, which could be restored by shRNA-mediated knockdown of SCN5A or MYT1L overexpression in postmitotic neurons. Acute application of the sodium channel blocker, lamotrigine, also rescued electrophysiological defects in vitro and behaviour phenotypes in vivo. Hence, MYT1L mutation causes both developmental and postmitotic neurological defects. However, acute intervention can normalise resulting electrophysiological and behavioural phenotypes in adulthood.
PXD036155	36782203	Changes in cognitive function, synaptic structure and protein expression after long-term exposure to 2.856 and 9.375 GHz microwaves. 	Changes of protein expression after long term exposure to 2.856 GHz and 9.375 GHz microwaves	DIA, long-term combined microwave exposure	Health hazards from long-term exposure to microwaves, especially the potential for changes in cognitive function, are attracting increasing attention. The purpose of this study was to explore changes in spatial learning and memory and synaptic structure and to identify differentially expressed proteins in hippocampal and serum exosomes after long-term exposure to 2.856 and 9.375 GHz microwaves. The spatial reference learning and memory abilities and the structure of the DG area were impaired after long-term exposure to 2.856 and 9.375 GHz microwaves. We also found a decrease in SNARE-associated protein Snapin and an increase in charged multivesicular body protein 3 in the hippocampus, indicating that synaptic vesicle recycling was inhibited and consistent with the large increase in presynaptic vesicles. Moreover, we investigated changes in serum exosomes after 2.856 and 9.375 GHz microwave exposure. The results showed that long-term 2.856 GHz microwave exposure could induce a decrease in calcineurin subunit B type 1 and cytochrome b-245 heavy chain in serum exosomes. While the 9.375 GHz long-term microwave exposure induced a decrease in proteins (synaptophysin-like 1, ankyrin repeat and rabankyrin-5, protein phosphatase 3 catalytic subunit alpha and sodium-dependent phosphate transporter 1) in serum exosomes. In summary, long-term microwave exposure could lead to different degrees of spatial learning and memory impairment, EEG disturbance, structural damage to the hippocampus, and differential expression of hippocampal tissue and serum exosomes.
PXD031947	36782237	A novel isolation method for spontaneously released extracellular vesicles from brain tissue and its implications for stress-driven brain pathology. 	A novel method for isolation of spontaneously-released brain small extracellular vesicles	brain, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, spontaneous release	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including small EVs (sEVs) such as exosomes, exhibit great potential for the diagnosis and treatment of brain disorders, representing a valuable tool for precision medicine. The latter demands high-quality human biospecimens, especially in complex disorders in which pathological and specimen heterogeneity, as well as diverse individual clinical profile, often complicate the development of precision therapeutic schemes and patient-tailored treatments. Thus, the collection and characterization of physiologically relevant sEVs are of the utmost importance. However, standard brain EV isolation approaches rely on tissue dissociation, which can contaminate EV fractions with intracellular vesicles. METHODS: Based on multiscale analytical platforms such as cryo-EM, label-free proteomics, advanced flow cytometry, and ExoView analyses, we compared and characterized the EV fraction isolated with this novel method with a classical digestion-based EV isolation procedure. Moreover, EV biogenesis was pharmacologically manipulated with either GW4869 or picrotoxin to assess the validity of the spontaneous-release method, while the injection of labelled-EVs into the mouse brain further supported the integrity of the isolated vesicles. RESULTS: We hereby present an efficient purification method that captures a sEV-enriched population spontaneously released by mouse and human brain tissue. In addition, we tested the significance of the release method under conditions where biogenesis/secretion of sEVs was pharmacologically manipulated, as well as under animals' exposure to chronic stress, a clinically relevant precipitant of brain pathologies, such as depression and Alzheimer's disease. Our findings show that the released method monitors the drug-evoked inhibition or enhancement of sEVs secretion while chronic stress induces the secretion of brain exosomes accompanied by memory loss and mood deficits suggesting a potential role of sEVs in the brain response to stress and related stress-driven brain pathology. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the spontaneous release method of sEV yield may contribute to the characterization and biomarker profile of physiologically relevant brain-derived sEVs in brain function and pathology. Video Abstract.
PXD038581	36782357	Identification of flucloxacillin-modified hepatocellular proteins: implications in flucloxacillin-induced liver injury. 	Flucloxacillin-modified proteins identified in primary human hepatocytes	Flucloxaxillin, primary human hepatocytes, protein modification	Flucloxacillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic associated with a high incidence of drug-induced liver injury. Although expression of HLA-B*57:01 is associated with increased susceptibility, little is known of the pathological mechanisms involved in the induction of the clinical phenotype. Irreversible protein modification is suspected to drive the reaction through the provision of flucloxacillin-modified peptides that are presented to T-cells by the protein encoded by the risk allele. In this study, we have shown that flucloxacillin binds to multiple proteins within human primary hepatocytes, including major hepatocellular proteins (hemoglobin and albumin) and mitochondrial proteins. Inhibition of membrane transporters multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) appeared to reduce the levels of covalent binding. A diverse range of proteins with different functions was found to be targeted by flucloxacillin, including adaptor proteins (14-3-3), proteins with catalytic activities (liver carboxylesterase 1, tRNA-splicing endonuclease subunit Sen2, All-trans-retinol dehydrogenase ADH1B, Glutamate dehydrogenase 1 mitochondrial, Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase [ammonia] mitochondrial), and transporters (hemoglobin, albumin, and UTP-glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase). These flucloxacillin-modified intracellular proteins could provide a potential source of neoantigens for HLA-B*57:01 presentation by hepatocytes. More importantly, covalent binding to critical cellular proteins could be the molecular initiating events that lead to flucloxacillin-induced cholestasis Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD038581.
PXD038538	36786216	Deacetylation of Septin4 by SIRT2 (Silent Mating Type Information Regulation 2 Homolog-2) Mitigates Damaging of Hypertensive Nephropathy. 	Deacetylation of Septin4 by NAD-dependent deacetylase SIRT2 mitigates damaging effects of hypertensive nephropathy	Deacetylation, Hypertensive nephropathy, SIRT2, Septin4	BACKGROUND: Hypertension can lead to podocyte damage and subsequent apoptosis, eventually resulting in glomerulosclerosis. Although alleviating podocyte apoptosis has clinical significance for the treatment of hypertensive nephropathy, an effective therapeutic target has not yet been identified. The function of septin4, a proapoptotic protein and an important marker of organ damage, is regulated by post-translational modification. However, the exact role of septin4 in regulating podocyte apoptosis and its connection to hypertensive renal damage remains unclear. METHODS: We investigated the function and mechanism of septin4 in hypertensive nephropathy to discover a theoretical basis for targeted treatment. Mouse models including Rosa 26 (Gt(ROSA)26Sor)-SIRT2 (silent mating type information regulation 2 homolog-2)-Flag-TG (transgenic) (SIRT2-TG) mice SIRT2-knockout, and septin4-K174Q mutant mice, combined with proteomic and acetyl proteomics analysis, followed by multiple molecular biological methodologies, were used to demonstrate mechanisms of SIRT2-mediated deacetylation of septin4-K174 in hypertensive nephropathy. RESULTS: Using transgenic septin4-K174Q mutant mice treated with the antioxidant Tempol, we found that hyperacetylation of the K174 site of septin4 exacerbates Ang II (angiotensin II)- induced hypertensive renal injury resulting from oxidative stress. Proteomics and Western blotting assays indicated that septin4-K174Q activates the cleaved-PARP1 (poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase family, member 1)-cleaved-caspase3 pathway. In septin4-knockdown human renal podocytes, septin4-K174R, which mimics deacetylation at K174, rescues podocyte apoptosis induced by Ang II. Immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry analyses identified SIRT2 as a deacetylase that interacts with the septin4 GTPase domain and deacetylates septin4-K174. In Sirt2-deficient mice and SIRT2-knockdown renal podocytes, septin4-K174 remains hyperacetylated and exacerbates hypertensive renal injury. By contrast, in Rosa26-Sirt2-Flag (SIRT2-TG) mice and SIRT2-knockdown renal podocytes reexpressing wild-type SIRT2, septin4-K174 is hypoacetylated and mitigates hypertensive renal injury. CONCLUSIONS: Septin4, when activated through acetylation of K174 (K174Q), promotes hypertensive renal injury. Septin4-K174R, which mimics deacetylation by SIRT2, inhibits the cleaved-PARP1-cleaved-caspase3 pathway. Septin4-K174R acts as a renal protective factor, mitigating Ang II-induced hypertensive renal injury. These findings indicate that septin4-K174 is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of hypertensive renal injury.
PXD038188	36788224	Multilevel proteomic analyses reveal molecular diversity between diffuse-type and intestinal-type gastric cancer. 	Proteomics of the Gastric cancer Response to anti-PD1 therapy	Gastric cancer, anti-PD1 therapy	Diffuse-type gastric cancer (DGC) and intestinal-type gastric cancer (IGC) are the major histological types of gastric cancer (GC). The molecular mechanism underlying DGC and IGC differences are poorly understood. In this research, we carry out multilevel proteomic analyses, including proteome, phospho-proteome, and transcription factor (TF) activity profiles, of 196 cases covering DGC and IGC in Chinese patients. Integrative proteogenomic analysis reveals ARIDIA mutation associated with opposite prognostic effects between DGC and IGC, via diverse influences on their corresponding proteomes. Systematical comparison and consensus clustering analysis identify three subtypes of DGC and IGC, respectively, based on distinct patterns of the cell cycle, extracellular matrix organization, and immune response-related proteins expression. TF activity-based subtypes demonstrate that the disease progressions of DGC and IGC were regulated by SWI/SNF and NFKB complexes. Furthermore, inferred immune cell infiltration and immune clustering show Th1/Th2 ratio is an indicator for immunotherapeutic effectiveness, which is validated in an independent GC anti-PD1 therapeutic patient group. Our multilevel proteomic analyses enable a more comprehensive understanding of GC and can further advance the precision medicine.
PXD036774	36788255	LAMP3 transfer via extracellular particles induces apoptosis in Sjoegren's disease. 	LAMP3-associated extracellular vesicles induce apoptosis in Sjgren's disease	Sjgren's syndrome, apoptosis, cell-to-cell communication, large extracellular vesicle, lysosome-associated membrane protein 3	Sjoegren's disease (SjD) is an autoimmune disease that affects exocrine tissues and is characterized by increased apoptosis in salivary and lacrimal glands. Although the pathogenic mechanism triggering SjD is not well understood, overexpression of lysosome-associated membrane protein 3 (LAMP3) is associated with the disease in a subset of SjD patients and the development of SjD-like phenotype in mice. In this study, histological analysis of minor salivary glands of SjD patients suggested that LAMP3-containing material is being ejected from cells. Follow-on in vitro experiments with cells exposed to extracellular particles (EPs) derived from LAMP3-overexpressing cells showed increased apoptosis. Proteomics identified LAMP3 as a major component of EPs derived from LAMP3-overexpressing cells. Live-cell imaging visualized release and uptake of LAMP3-containing EPs from LAMP3-overexpressing cells to naive cells. Furthermore, experiments with recombinant LAMP3 protein alone or complexed with Xfect protein transfection reagent demonstrated that internalization of LAMP3 was required for apoptosis in a caspase-dependent pathway. Taken together, we identified a new role for extracellular LAMP3 in cell-to-cell communication via EPs, which provides further support for targeting LAMP3 as a therapeutic approach in SjD.
PXD034483	36789492	RNA polymerase II-associated proteins reveal pathways affected in VCP-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	Proteins co-localized with RNA  Pol2 in ALS patient-derived neural precursors 	ALS, Chromatin, Proteostasis, RNA polymerase II	Valosin-containing protein (VCP) is a hexameric ATPase associated with diverse cellular activities. Genetic mutations in VCP are associated with several forms of muscular and neuronal degeneration, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Moreover, VCP mediates UV-induced proteolysis of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), but little is known about the effects of VCP mutations on the transcriptional machinery. Here, we used silica particle-assisted chromatin enrichment and mass spectrometry to study proteins co-localized with RNAPII in precursor neurons differentiated from VCP-mutant or control induced pluripotent stem cells. Remarkably, we observed diminished RNAPII binding of proteins involved in transcription elongation and mRNA splicing in mutant cells. One of these is SART3, a recycling factor of the splicing machinery, whose knockdown leads to perturbed intron retention in several ALS-associated genes. Additional reduced proteins are RBM45, EIF5A and RNF220, mutations in which are associated with various neurodegenerative disorders and are linked to TDP-43 aggregation. Conversely, we observed increased RNAPII binding of heat shock proteins such as HSPB1. Together, these findings shed light on how transcription and splicing machinery are impaired by VCP mutations, which might contribute to aberrant alternative splicing and proteinopathy in neurodegeneration.
PXD029556	36789692	Efficient TurboID-based proximity labelling method for identifying terminal sialic acid glycosylation in living cells. 	Efficient TurboID-based proximate labeling method for identifying terminal sialic acid glycosylation in living cells	SpCBM, TurboID, glycosylation, proximity lableing, sialic acid	TurboID, a proximity labelling method based on mutant biotin ligase, is an efficient new technique for recognizing protein-protein interactions and has been successfully applied to living cells. Sialic acid is typically the terminal monosaccharide attached to many glycoproteins and plays many important roles in many biological processes. However, the lack of enrichment methods for terminal sialic acid glycosylation in vivo hinders the identification and analysis of this glycosylation. Here, we introduce TurboID to identify terminal sialic acid glycosylation in living cells. SpCBM, the carbohydrate-binding domain of sialidase from Streptococcus pneumoniae, is fused with TurboID and overexpressed in HeLa cells. After streptavidin-based purification and detection by mass spectrometry, 31 terminal sialic acid N-glycosylated sites and 1359 putative terminal sialic acid glycosylated proteins are identified, many of which are located in the cytoplasm and nucleus.
PXD031920	36790165	Centriolar satellites expedite mother centriole remodeling to promote ciliogenesis. 	Centriolar satellites expedite mother centriole remodeling to promote ciliogenesis	Cilia, MTECs	Centrosomes are orbited by centriolar satellites, dynamic multiprotein assemblies nucleated by Pericentriolar material 1 (PCM1). To study the requirement for centriolar satellites, we generated mice lacking PCM1, a crucial component of satellites. Pcm1(-/-) mice display partially penetrant perinatal lethality with survivors exhibiting hydrocephalus, oligospermia, and cerebellar hypoplasia, and variably expressive phenotypes such as hydronephrosis. As many of these phenotypes have been observed in human ciliopathies and satellites are implicated in cilia biology, we investigated whether cilia were affected. PCM1 was dispensable for ciliogenesis in many cell types, whereas Pcm1(-/-) multiciliated ependymal cells and human PCM1(-/-) retinal pigmented epithelial 1 (RPE1) cells showed reduced ciliogenesis. PCM1(-/-) RPE1 cells displayed reduced docking of the mother centriole to the ciliary vesicle and removal of CP110 and CEP97 from the distal mother centriole, indicating compromised early ciliogenesis. Similarly, Pcm1(-/-) ependymal cells exhibited reduced removal of CP110 from basal bodies in vivo. We propose that PCM1 and centriolar satellites facilitate efficient trafficking of proteins to and from centrioles, including the departure of CP110 and CEP97 to initiate ciliogenesis, and that the threshold to trigger ciliogenesis differs between cell types.
PXD026976	36791076	Targeted proteomics using stable isotope labeled protein fragments enables precise and robust determination of total apolipoprotein(a) in human plasma. 	Targeted Proteomics Using Stable Isotope Labeled Protein Fragments Enables Precise and Robust Determination of Total Apolipoprotein(a) in Human Plasma	apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)), apolipoproteins, liquid chromatography, quantification, stable isotope labeled recombinant protein fragment standard, tandem mass spectrometry	Lipoprotein(a), also known as Lp(a), is an LDL-like particle composed of apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)) bound covalently to apolipoprotein B100. Plasma concentrations of Lp(a) are highly heritable and vary widely between individuals. Elevated plasma concentration of Lp(a) is considered as an independent, causal risk factor of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Targeted mass spectrometry (LC-SRM/MS) combined with stable isotope-labeled recombinant proteins provides robust and precise quantification of proteins in the blood, making LC-SRM/MS assays appealing for monitoring plasma proteins for clinical implications. This study presents a novel quantitative approach, based on proteotypic peptides, to determine the absolute concentration of apo(a) from two microliters of plasma and qualified according to guideline requirements for targeted proteomics assays. After optimization, assay parameters such as linearity, lower limits of quantification (LLOQ), intra-assay variability (CV: 4.7%) and inter-assay repeatability (CV: 7.8%) were determined and the LC-SRM/MS results were benchmarked against a commercially available immunoassay. In summary, the measurements of an apo(a) single copy specific peptide and a kringle 4 specific peptide allow for the determination of molar concentration and relative size of apo(a) in individuals.
PXD039067	36791206	Small-molecule toosendanin reverses macrophage-mediated immunosuppression to overcome glioblastoma resistance to immunotherapy. 	TSN-interacting proteins in macrophages	Toosendanin, macrophages, targets	T cell-based immunotherapy holds promise for treating solid tumors, but its therapeutic efficacy is limited by intratumoral immune suppression. This immune suppressive tumor microenvironment is largely driven by tumor-associated myeloid cells, including macrophages. Here, we report that toosendanin (TSN), a small-molecule compound, reprograms macrophages to enforce antitumor immunity in glioblastoma (GBM) in mouse models. Our functional screen of genetically probed macrophages with a chemical library identifies that TSN reverses macrophage-mediated tumor immunosuppression, leading to enhanced T cell infiltration, activation, and reduced exhaustion. Chemoproteomic and structural analyses revealed that TSN interacts with Hck and Lyn to abrogate suppressive macrophage immunity. In addition, a combination of immune checkpoint blockade and TSN therapy induced regression of syngeneic GBM tumors in mice. Furthermore, TSN treatment sensitized GBM to Egfrviii chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy. These findings suggest that TSN may serve as a therapeutic compound that blocks tumor immunosuppression and circumvents tumor resistance to T cell-based immunotherapy in GBM and other solid tumors that warrants further investigation.
PXD039271	36791335	Quantitative Characterization of Clinically Relevant Drug-Metabolizing Enzymes and Transporters in Rat Liver and Intestinal Segments for Applications in PBPK Modeling. 	Quantitative Characterization of Clinically Relevant Drug-Metabolizing Enzymes and Transporters in Rat Liver and Intestinal Segments for Applications in PBPK Modeling	Digoxin, Drug metabolism, Drug transport, Interspecies differences, PBPK modeling, Quantitative proteomics, Total protein approach	Rats are extensively used as a preclinical model for assessing drug pharmacokinetics (PK) and tissue distribution; however, successful translation of the rat data requires information on the differences in drug metabolism and transport mechanisms between rats and humans. To partly fill this knowledge gap, we quantified clinically relevant drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters (DMETs) in the liver and different intestinal segments of Sprague-Dawley rats. The levels of DMET proteins in rats were quantified using the global proteomics-based total protein approach (TPA) and targeted proteomics. The abundance of the major DMET proteins was largely comparable using quantitative global and targeted proteomics. However, global proteomics-based TPA was able to detect and quantify a comprehensive list of 66 DMET proteins in the liver and 37 DMET proteins in the intestinal segments of SD rats without the need for peptide standards. Cytochrome P450 (Cyp) and UDP-glycosyltransferase (Ugt) enzymes were mainly detected in the liver with the abundance ranging from 8 to 6502 and 74 to 2558 pmol/g tissue. P-gp abundance was higher in the intestine (124.1 pmol/g) as compared to that in the liver (26.6 pmol/g) using the targeted analysis. Breast cancer resistance protein (Bcrp) was most abundant in the intestinal segments, whereas organic anion transporting polypeptides (Oatp) 1a1, 1a4, 1b2, and 2a1 and multidrug resistance proteins (Mrp) 2 and 6 were predominantly detected in the liver. To demonstrate the utility of these data, we modeled digoxin PK by integrating protein abundance of P-gp and Cyp3a2 into a physiologically based PK (PBPK) model constructed using PK-Sim software. The model was able to reliably predict the systemic as well as tissue concentrations of digoxin in rats. These findings suggest that proteomics-informed PBPK models in preclinical species can allow mechanistic PK predictions in animal models including tissue drug concentrations.
PXD039744	36791552	HNRNPA2B1 as a potential therapeutic target for thymic epithelial tumor recurrence: An integrative network analysis. 	HNRNPA2B1 as a potential therapeutic target for thymic epithelial tumor recurrence	biomarker, drug target, recurrence, thymoma	Thymic epithelial tumors (TETs) are rare malignant tumors, and the molecular mechanisms of both primary and recurrent TETs are poorly understood. Here we established comprehensive proteomic signatures of 15 tumors (5 recurrent and 10 non-recurrent) and 15 pair wised tumor adjacent normal tissues. We then proposed an integrative network approach for studying the proteomics data by constructing protein-protein interaction networks based on differentially expressed proteins and a machine learning-based score, followed by network modular analysis, functional enrichment annotation and shortest path inference analysis. Network modular analysis revealed that primary and recurrent TETs shared certain common molecular mechanisms, including a spliceosome module consisting of RNA splicing and RNA processing, but the recurrent TET was specifically related to the ribosome pathway. Applying the shortest path inference to the collected seed gene module identified that the ribonucleoprotein hnRNPA2B1 probably serves as a potential target for recurrent TET therapy. The drug repositioning combined molecular dynamics simulations suggested that the compound ergotamine could potentially act as a repurposing drug to treat recurrent TETs by targeting hnRNPA2B1. Our study demonstrates the value of integrative network analysis to understand proteotype robustness and its relationships with genotype, and provides hits for further research on cancer therapeutics.
PXD037698	36791646	Peroxiredoxin 2 is required for the redox mediated adaptation to exercise. 	Peroxiredoxin 2 is required for the exercise induced redox mediated adaptation to exercise	Caenorhabditis elegans redox	Exercise generates a site-specific increase in Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) within muscle that promotes changes in gene transcription and mitochondrial biogenesis, required for the beneficial adaptive response. We demonstrate that Peroxiredoxin 2 (Prdx2), an abundant cytoplasmic 2-Cys peroxiredoxin, is required for the adaptive hormesis response to physiological levels of H2O2 in myoblasts and following exercise in C. elegans. A short bolus addition of H2O2 increases mitochondrial capacity and improves myogenesis of cultured myoblasts, this beneficial adaptive response was suppressed in myoblasts with decreased expression of cytoplasmic Prdxs. Moreover, a swimming exercise protocol in C. elegans increased mitochondrial content, fitness, survival and longevity in wild type (N2) worms. In contrast, prdx-2 mutant worms had decreased fitness, disrupted mitochondria, reduced survival and lifespan following exercise. Global proteomics following exercise identified distinct changes in the proteome of N2 and prdx-2 mutants. Furthermore, a redox proteomic approach to quantify reversible oxidation of specific Cysteine residues revealed a more reduced redox state in the non-exercised prdx-2 mutant strain that become oxidized following exercise. In contrast, specific Cys residues from regulatory proteins become more reduced in the N2 strain following exercise, establishing the key regulatory role of PRDX-2 in a redox signalling cascade following endogenous ROS generation. Our results demonstrate that conserved cytoplasmic 2-Cys Peroxiredoxins are required for the beneficial adaptive response to a physiological redox stress.
PXD020600	36791992	Multi-Cell Line Analysis of Lysosomal Proteomes Reveals Unique Features and Novel Lysosomal Proteins. 	Multi cell line comparison of lysosome enriched fractions reveals cell type specific features and novel lysosomal proteins	DIA, IBAQ, LFQ, SILAC, cell line comparison, isolated lysosomes, lysosome	Lysosomes, the main degradative organelles of mammalian cells, play a key role in the regulation of metabolism. It is becoming more and more apparent that they are highly active, diverse, and involved in a large variety of processes. The essential role of lysosomes is exemplified by the detrimental consequences of their malfunction, which can result in lysosomal storage disorders, neurodegenerative diseases, and cancer. Using lysosome enrichment and mass spectrometry, we investigated the lysosomal proteomes of HEK293, HeLa, HuH-7, SH-SY5Y, MEF, and NIH3T3 cells. We provide evidence on a large scale for cell type-specific differences of lysosomes, showing that levels of distinct lysosomal proteins are highly variable within one cell type, while expression of others is highly conserved across several cell lines. Using differentially stable isotope-labeled cells and bimodal distribution analysis, we furthermore identify a high confidence population of lysosomal proteins for each cell line. Multi-cell line correlation of these data reveals potential novel lysosomal proteins, and we confirm lysosomal localization for six candidates. All data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020600.
PXD038780	36792548	Proteomes of Micro- and Nanosized Carriers Engineered from Red Blood Cells. 	Proteomes of Micro- and Nano-Sized Carriers Engineered from Red Blood Cells	bioinformatics, drug delivery, erythrocyte, tandem mass spectrometry	Red blood cell (RBC)-derived systems offer a potential platform for delivery of biomedical cargos. Although the importance of specific proteins associated with the biodistribution and pharmacokinetics of these particles has been recognized, it remains to be explored whether some of the key transmembrane and cytoskeletal proteins responsible for immune-modulatory effects and mechanical integrity of the particles are retained. Herein, using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and quantitative tandem mass tag mass spectrometry in conjunction with bioinformatics analysis, we have examined the proteomes of micro- and nanosized erythrocyte ghosts doped with indocyanine green and compared them with those of RBCs. We identified a total of 884 proteins in each set of RBCs, micro-, and nanosized particles, of which 8 and 45 proteins were expressed at significantly different relative abundances when comparing micro-sized particles vs RBCs and nanosized particles vs RBCs, respectively. We found greater differences in relative abundances of some mechano-modulatory proteins, such as band 3 and protein 4.2, and immunomodulatory proteins like CD44, CD47, and CD55 in nanosized particles as compared to RBCs. Our findings highlight that the methods utilized in fabricating RBC-based systems can induce substantial effects on their proteomes. Mass spectrometry data are available at ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD038780.
PXD039300	36792588	DNALI1 deficiency causes male infertility with severe asthenozoospermia in humans and mice by disrupting the assembly of the flagellar inner dynein arms and fibrous sheath. 	Identification of the DNALI1 interactome from mouse testis to identify its role in spermatogenesis	DNALI1, interactome, mice, spermatids, testis	The axonemal dynein arms (outer (ODA) and inner dynein arms (IDAs)) are multiprotein structures organized by light, intermediate, light intermediate (LIC), and heavy chain proteins. They hydrolyze ATP to promote ciliary and flagellar movement. Till now, a variety of dynein protein deficiencies have been linked with asthenospermia (ASZ), highlighting the significance of these structures in human sperm motility. Herein, we detected bi-allelic DNALI1 mutations [c.663_666del (p.Glu221fs)], in an ASZ patient, which resulted in the complete loss of the DNALI1 in the patient's sperm. We identified loss of sperm DNAH1 and DNAH7 rather than DNAH10 in both DNALI1(663_666del) patient and Dnali1(-/-) mice, demonstrating that mammalian DNALI1 is a LIC protein of a partial IDA subspecies. More importantly, we revealed that DNALI1 loss contributed to asymmetries in the most fibrous sheath (FS) of the sperm flagellum in both species. Immunoprecipitation revealed that DNALI1 might interact with the cytoplasmic dynein complex proteins in the testes. Furthermore, DNALI1 loss severely disrupted the transport and assembly of the FS proteins, especially AKAP3 and AKAP4, during flagellogenesis. Hence, DNALI1 may possess a non-classical molecular function, whereby it regulates the cytoplasmic dynein complex that assembles the flagella. We conclude that a DNALI deficiency-induced IDAs injury and an asymmetric FS-driven tail rigid structure alteration may simultaneously cause flagellum immotility. Finally, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) can effectively resolve patient infertility. Collectively, we demonstrate that DNALI1 is a newly causative gene for AZS in both humans and mice, which possesses multiple crucial roles in modulating flagellar assembly and motility.
PXD037345	36792649	Digestive enzymes and sphingomyelinase D in spiders without venom (Uloboridae). 	The non venomous spider Uloborus sp. (Uloboridae) midgut proteome	Digestion, Enzyme, Spider, Venom	Spiders have distinct predatory behaviours selected along Araneae's evolutionary history but are mainly based on the use of venom for prey paralysis. Uloboridae spiders have lost their venom glands secondarily during evolution. Because of this, they immobilise their prey by extensively wrapping, and digestion starts with the addition of digestive fluid. During the extra-oral digestion, the digestive fluid liquefies both the prey and the AcSp2 spidroins from the web fibres. Despite the efficiency of this process, the cocktail of enzymes involved in digestion in Uloboridae spiders remains unknown. In this study, the protein content in the midgut of Uloborus sp. was evaluated through enzymatic, proteomic, and phylogenetic analysis. Hydrolases such as peptidases (endo and exopeptidases: cysteine, serine, and metallopeptidases), carbohydrases (alpha-amylase, chitinase, and alpha-mannosidase), and lipases were biochemically assayed, and 50 proteins (annotated as enzymes, structural proteins, and toxins) were identified, evidencing the identity between the digestive enzymes present in venomous and non-venomous spiders. Even enzymes thought to be unique to venom, including enzymes such as sphingomyelinase D, were found in the digestive system of non-venomous spiders, suggesting a common origin between digestive enzymes and enzymes present in venoms. This is the first characterization of the molecules involved in the digestive process and the midgut protein content of a non-venomous spider.
PXD026502	36792668	Fetal growth restriction followed by early catch-up growth impairs pancreatic islet morphology in male rats. 	fetal growth restriction_pancreas_differences in nutritional condition	fetal growth restriction, nutritional condition, pancreas, rat	Fetal growth restriction (FGR), followed by postnatal early catch-up growth, is associated with an increased risk of metabolic dysfunction, including type 2 diabetes in humans. This study aims to determine the effects of FGR and early catch-up growth after birth on the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes, with particular attention to glucose tolerance, pancreatic islet morphology, and fibrosis, and to elucidate its mechanism using proteomics analysis. The FGR rat model was made by inducing mild intrauterine hypoperfusion using ameroid constrictors (ACs). On day 17 of pregnancy, ACs were affixed to the uterine and ovarian arteries bilaterally, causing a 20.9% reduction in birth weight compared to sham pups. On postnatal day 4 (P4), the pups were assigned to either the good nutrition (GN) groups with 5 pups per dam to ensure postnatal catch-up growth or poor nutrition groups with 15 pups per dam to maintain lower body weight. After weaning, all pups were fed regular chow food ad libitum (P21). Rats in both FGR groups developed glucose intolerance; however, male rats in the FGR good nutrition (FGR-GN) group also developed hypertriglyceridemia and dysmorphic pancreatic islets with fibrosis. A comprehensive and functional analysis of proteins expressed in the pancreas showed that FGR, followed by early catch-up growth, severely aggravated cell adhesion-related protein expression in male offspring. Thus, FGR and early catch-up growth caused pancreatic islet morphological abnormalities and fibrosis associated with the disturbance of cell adhesion-related protein expressions. These changes likely induce glucose intolerance and dyslipidemia in male rats.
PXD038734	36792670	A molecular atlas reveals the tri-sectional spinning mechanism of spider dragline silk. 	Detect the shared protein components between spider dragline silk and silkworm cocoon by Label free quantitative proteomics	Dragline silk, LC-MS, silkworm cocoon	The process of natural silk production in the spider major ampullate (Ma) gland endows dragline silk with extraordinary mechanical properties and the potential for biomimetic applications. However, the precise genetic roles of the Ma gland during this process remain unknown. Here, we performed a systematic molecular atlas of dragline silk production through a high-quality genome assembly for the golden orb-weaving spider Trichonephila clavata and a multiomics approach to defining the Ma gland tri-sectional architecture: Tail, Sac, and Duct. We uncovered a hierarchical biosynthesis of spidroins, organic acids, lipids, and chitin in the sectionalized Ma gland dedicated to fine silk constitution. The ordered secretion of spidroins was achieved by the synergetic regulation of epigenetic and ceRNA signatures for genomic group-distributed spidroin genes. Single-cellular and spatial RNA profiling identified ten cell types with partitioned functional division determining the tri-sectional organization of the Ma gland. Convergence analysis and genetic manipulation further validated that this tri-sectional architecture of the silk gland was analogous across Arthropoda and inextricably linked with silk formation. Collectively, our study provides multidimensional data that significantly expand the knowledge of spider dragline silk generation and ultimately benefit innovation in spider-inspired fibers.
PXD038718	36792830	A NPAS4-NuA4 complex couples synaptic activity to DNA repair. 	An NPAS4:NuA4 complex couples synaptic activity to DNA repair	HEK293T, Hippocampus, Mus musculus, Npas4, NuA4, Tip60	Neuronal activity is crucial for adaptive circuit remodelling but poses an inherent risk to the stability of the genome across the long lifespan of postmitotic neurons(1-5). Whether neurons have acquired specialized genome protection mechanisms that enable them to withstand decades of potentially damaging stimuli during periods of heightened activity is unknown. Here we identify an activity-dependent DNA repair mechanism in which a new form of the NuA4-TIP60 chromatin modifier assembles in activated neurons around the inducible, neuronal-specific transcription factor NPAS4. We purify this complex from the brain and demonstrate its functions in eliciting activity-dependent changes to neuronal transcriptomes and circuitry. By characterizing the landscape of activity-induced DNA double-strand breaks in the brain, we show that NPAS4-NuA4 binds to recurrently damaged regulatory elements and recruits additional DNA repair machinery to stimulate their repair. Gene regulatory elements bound by NPAS4-NuA4 are partially protected against age-dependent accumulation of somatic mutations. Impaired NPAS4-NuA4 signalling leads to a cascade of cellular defects, including dysregulated activity-dependent transcriptional responses, loss of control over neuronal inhibition and genome instability, which all culminate to reduce organismal lifespan. In addition, mutations in several components of the NuA4 complex are reported to lead to neurodevelopmental and autism spectrum disorders. Together, these findings identify a neuronal-specific complex that couples neuronal activity directly to genome preservation, the disruption of which may contribute to developmental disorders, neurodegeneration and ageing.
PXD035048	36793056	Contraction of human brain vascular pericytes in response to islet amyloid polypeptide is reversed by pramlintide. 	Contraction of brain pericytes in response to Islet Amyloid PolyPeptide is reversed by pramlintide.	amylin, blood-brain barrier, diabetes, vasculopathy	The islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP), a pancreas-produced peptide, has beneficial functions in its monomeric form. However, IAPP aggregates, related to type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), are toxic not only for the pancreas, but also for the brain. In the latter, IAPP is often found in vessels, where it is highly toxic for pericytes, mural cells that have contractile properties and regulate capillary blood flow. In the current study, we use a microvasculature model, where human brain vascular pericytes (HBVP) are co-cultured together with human cerebral microvascular endothelial cells, to demonstrate that IAPP oligomers (oIAPP) alter the morphology and contractility of HBVP. Contraction and relaxation of HBVP was verified using the vasoconstrictor sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) and vasodilator Y27632, where the former increased, and the latter decreased, the number of HBVP with round morphology. Increased number of round HBVP was also seen after oIAPP stimulation, and the effect was reverted by the IAPP analogue pramlintide, Y27632, and the myosin inhibitor blebbistatin. Inhibition of the IAPP receptor with the antagonist AC187 only reverted IAPP effects partially. Finally, we demonstrate by immunostaining of human brain tissue against laminin that individuals with high amount of brain IAPP levels show significantly lower capillary diameter and altered mural cell morphology compared to individuals with low brain IAPP levels. These results indicate that HBVP, in an in vitro model of microvasculature, respond morphologically to vasoconstrictors, dilators, and myosin inhibitors. They also suggest that oIAPP induces contraction of these mural cells and that pramlintide can reverse such contraction.
PXD032864	36794705	p38-mediated FOXN3 phosphorylation modulates lung inflammation and injury through the NF-kappaB signaling pathway. 	FOXN3 affinity-purification-Mass spectrometry	FOXN3-MS	NF-kappaB activates the primary inflammatory response pathway responsible for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)-induced lung inflammation and injury. Here, we report that the Forkhead box transcription factor FOXN3 ameliorates MRSA-induced pulmonary inflammatory injury by inactivating NF-kappaB signaling. FOXN3 competes with IkappaBalpha for binding to heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein-U (hnRNPU), thereby blocking beta-TrCP-mediated IkappaBalpha degradation and leading to NF-kappaB inactivation. FOXN3 is directly phosphorylated by p38 at S83 and S85 residues, which induces its dissociation from hnRNPU, thus promoting NF-kappaB activation. After dissociation, the phosphorylated FOXN3 becomes unstable and undergoes proteasomal degradation. Additionally, hnRNPU is essential for p38-mediated FOXN3 phosphorylation and subsequent phosphorylation-dependent degradation. Functionally, genetic ablation of FOXN3 phosphorylation results in strong resistance to MRSA-induced pulmonary inflammatory injury. Importantly, FOXN3 phosphorylation is clinically positively correlated with pulmonary inflammatory disorders. This study uncovers a previously unknown regulatory mechanism underpinning the indispensable role of FOXN3 phosphorylation in the inflammatory response to pulmonary infection.
PXD038988	36794724	Cellular responses to long-term phosphate starvation of fission yeast: Maf1 determines fate choice between quiescence and death associated with aberrant tRNA biogenesis. 	Cellular responses to long-term phosphate starvation of fission yeast: Maf1 determines fate choice between quiescence and death associated with aberrant tRNA biogenesis	chronological lifespan, phosphate homeostasis, tRNA biogenesis	Inorganic phosphate is an essential nutrient acquired by cells from their environment. Here, we characterize the adaptative responses of fission yeast to chronic phosphate starvation, during which cells enter a state of quiescence, initially fully reversible upon replenishing phosphate after 2 days but resulting in gradual loss of viability during 4 weeks of starvation. Time-resolved analyses of changes in mRNA levels revealed a coherent transcriptional program in which phosphate dynamics and autophagy were upregulated, while the machineries for rRNA synthesis and ribosome assembly, and for tRNA synthesis and maturation, were downregulated in tandem with global repression of genes encoding ribosomal proteins and translation factors. Consistent with the transcriptome changes, proteome analysis highlighted global depletion of 102 ribosomal proteins. Concomitant with this ribosomal protein deficit, 28S and 18S rRNAs became vulnerable to site-specific cleavages that generated temporally stable rRNA fragments. The finding that Maf1, a repressor of RNA polymerase III transcription, was upregulated during phosphate starvation prompted a hypothesis that its activity might prolong lifespan of the quiescent cells by limiting production of tRNAs. Indeed, we found that deletion of maf1 results in precocious death of phosphate-starved cells via a distinctive starvation-induced pathway associated with tRNA overproduction and dysfunctional tRNA biogenesis.
PXD032897	36796721	Proteome analysis reveals novel serum biomarkers for Henoch-Schoenlein purpura in Chinese children. 	Proteome analysis reveals novel serum biomarkers for Henoch-Schnlein purpura in Chinese children	Early diagnosis, Henoch-Schnlein purpura, serum biomarker	PURPOSE: Henoch-Schoenlein purpura (HSP) is diagnosed based on characteristic skin changes. This study aimed to identify the serum biomarkers of HSP in children. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We performed proteomic analysis of serum samples from 38 paired pre- and posttherapy HSP patients and 22 healthy controls using a combination of magnetic bead-based weak cation exchange and MALDI-TOF MS. ClinProTools was used to screen the differential peaks. Then, LC-ESI-MS/MS was performed to identify the proteins. ELISA was used to verify the expression of whole protein in the serum of 92 HSP patients, 14 peptic ulcer disease (PUD) patients and 38 healthy controls, which were prospectively collected. Finally, logistic regression analysis was performed to analyze the diagnostic value of the above predictors and existing clinical indicators. RESULTS: Seven potential HSP serum biomarker peaks (m/z:1228.95, m/z:1781.22, m/z:1468.43, m/z:1619.53, m/z:1868.41, m/z:1694.05, m/z:1743.25) with higher expression in the pretherapy group and one peak (m/z:1947.41) with lower expression in the pretherapy group were all identified as peptide regions of albumin (ALB), complement C4-A precursor (C4A), tubulin beta chain (TUBB), isoform 1 of fibrinogen alpha chain (FGA), and ezrin (EZR). The expression of identified proteins was validated by ELISA. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that serum C4A EZR and ALB were independent risk factors for HSP, serum C4A and lgA were independent risk factors for HSPN, and serum D-dimer was an independent risk factor for abdominal HSP. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These findings revealed the specific etiology of HSP from the perspective of serum proteomics. The identified proteins might serve as potential biomarkers for HSP and HSPN diagnoses. SIGNIFICANCE: Henoch-Schoenlein purpura (HSP) is the most common systemic vasculitis in children, and its diagnosis depends primarily on characteristic skin changes. Early diagnosis of non-rash patients is difficult, especially for abdominal and renal types (Henoch-Schoenlein purpura nephritis, HSPN). HSPN has poor outcomes, is diagnosed based on urinary protein and/or haematuria, and cannot be detected early in HSP. Patients with an earlier diagnosis of HSPN appear to have better renal outcomes. Our plasma proteomic analysis of HSP in children revealed that HSP patients could be distinguished from healthy controls and peptic ulcer disease patients using complement C4-A precursor (C4A), ezrin, and albumin. C4A and IgA could distinguish HSPN from HSP in the early stages, and D-dimer was a sensitive index used to distinguish abdominal HSP; identifying these biomarkers could promote the early diagnosis of HSP, especially pediatric HSPN and abdominal HSP, thereby improving precision therapy.
PXD039231	36797296	Genome-wide genotype-serum proteome mapping provides insights into the cross-ancestry differences in cardiometabolic disease susceptibility. 	Circulating proteome profiling of Guangzhou Nutrition and Health Study		Identification of protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) helps understand the underlying mechanisms of diseases and discover promising targets for pharmacological intervention. For most important class of drug targets, genetic evidence needs to be generalizable to diverse populations. Given that the majority of the previous studies were conducted in European ancestry populations, little is known about the protein-associated genetic variants in East Asians. Based on data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry technique, we conduct genome-wide association analyses for 304 unique proteins in 2,958 Han Chinese participants. We identify 195 genetic variant-protein associations. Colocalization and Mendelian randomization analyses highlight 60 gene-protein-phenotype associations, 45 of which (75%) have not been prioritized in Europeans previously. Further cross-ancestry analyses uncover key proteins that contributed to the differences in the obesity-induced diabetes and coronary artery disease susceptibility. These findings provide novel druggable proteins as well as a unique resource for the trans-ancestry evaluation of protein-targeted drug discovery.
PXD037091	36797351	Dual specificity and target gene selection by the MADS-domain protein FRUITFULL. 	Protein interaction partners of FRUITFULL in inflorescence meristems and pistils by IP-MS.	FRUITFULL, IP-MS, protein complex	How transcription factors attain their target gene specificity and how this specificity may be modulated, acquiring different regulatory functions through the development of plant tissues, is an open question. Here we characterized different regulatory roles of the MADS-domain transcription factor FRUITFULL (FUL) in flower development and mechanisms modulating its activity. We found that the dual role of FUL in regulating floral transition and pistil development is associated with its different in vivo patterns of DNA binding in both tissues. Characterization of FUL protein complexes by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and SELEX-seq experiments shows that aspects of tissue-specific target site selection can be predicted by tissue-specific variation in the composition of FUL protein complexes with different DNA binding specificities, without considering the chromatin status of the target region. This suggests a role for dynamic changes in FUL TF complex composition in reshaping the regulatory functions of FUL during flower development.
PXD038555	36797805	Magnetic transferrin nanoparticles (MTNs) assay as a novel isolation approach for exosomal biomarkers in neurological diseases. 	Magnetic Transferrin Assay (MTA) as a novel approach for discovering serum exosome derived protein biomarkers in neurological diseases	Dementia, Multiple sclerosis, Neurological disease, Parkinson, Serum exosome	BACKGROUND: Brain-derived exosomes released into the blood are considered a liquid biopsy to investigate the pathophysiological state, reflecting the aberrant heterogeneous pathways of pathological progression of the brain in neurological diseases. Brain-derived blood exosomes provide promising prospects for the diagnosis of neurological diseases, with exciting possibilities for the early and sensitive diagnosis of such diseases. However, the capability of traditional exosome isolation assays to specifically isolate blood exosomes and to characterize the brain-derived blood exosomal proteins by high-throughput proteomics for clinical specimens from patients with neurological diseases cannot be assured. We report a magnetic transferrin nanoparticles (MTNs) assay, which combined transferrin and magnetic nanoparticles to isolate brain-derived blood exosomes from clinical samples. METHODS: The principle of the MTNs assay is a ligand-receptor interaction through transferrin on MTNs and transferrin receptor on exosomes, and electrostatic interaction via positively charged MTNs and negatively charged exosomes to isolate brain-derived blood exosomes. In addition, the MTNs assay is simple and rapid (< 35 min) and does not require any large instrument. We confirmed that the MTNs assay accurately and efficiently isolated exosomes from serum samples of humans with neurodegenerative diseases, such as dementia, Parkinson's disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis (MS). Moreover, we isolated exosomes from serum samples of 30 patients with three distinct neurodegenerative diseases and performed unbiased proteomic analysis to explore the pilot value of brain-derived blood protein profiles as biomarkers. RESULTS: Using comparative statistical analysis, we found 21 candidate protein biomarkers that were significantly different among three groups of neurodegenerative diseases. CONCLUSION: The MTNs assay is a convenient approach for the specific and affordable isolation of extracellular vesicles from body fluids for minimally-invasive diagnosis of neurological diseases.
PXD052674	36798186	Glutathione supports lipid abundance in vivo. 	Glutathione supports lipid abundance in vivo	Gclc, Nrf2, glutathione, liver	Cells rely on antioxidants to survive. The most abundant antioxidant is glutathione (GSH). The synthesis of GSH is non-redundantly controlled by the glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC). GSH imbalance is implicated in many diseases, but the requirement for GSH in adult tissues is unclear. To interrogate this, we developed a series of in vivo models to induce Gclc deletion in adult animals. We find that GSH is essential to lipid abundance in vivo. GSH levels are reported to be highest in liver tissue, which is also a hub for lipid production. While the loss of GSH did not cause liver failure, it decreased lipogenic enzyme expression, circulating triglyceride levels, and fat stores. Mechanistically, we found that GSH promotes lipid abundance by repressing NRF2, a transcription factor induced by oxidative stress. These studies identify GSH as a fulcrum in the liver's balance of redox buffering and triglyceride production.
PXD043164	36798191	Plasmodium ARK2-EB1 axis drives the unconventional spindle dynamics, scaffold formation and chromosome segregation of sexual transmission stages. 	Plasmodium ARK2 and EB1 drives the unconventional spindle dynamics, during chromosome segregation in sexual transmission stages	ARK2, EB1, Plasmodium, Warwick_RTP	Mechanisms of cell division are remarkably diverse, suggesting the underlying molecular networks among eukaryotes differ extensively. The Aurora family of kinases orchestrates the process of chromosome segregation and cytokinesis during cell division through precise spatiotemporal regulation of their catalytic activities by distinct scaffolds. Plasmodium spp., the causative agents of malaria, are unicellular eukaryotes that have three divergent aurora-related kinases (ARKs) and lack most canonical scaffolds/activators. The parasite uses unconventional modes of chromosome segregation during endomitosis and meiosis in sexual transmission stages within mosquito host. This includes a rapid threefold genome replication from 1N to 8N with successive cycles of closed mitosis, spindle formation and chromosome segregation within eight minutes (termed male gametogony). Kinome studies had previously suggested likely essential functions for all three Plasmodium ARKs during asexual mitotic cycles; however, little is known about their location, function, or their scaffolding molecules during unconventional sexual proliferative stages. Using a combination of super-resolution microscopy, mass spectrometry, omics and live-cell fluorescence imaging, we set out to investigate the contribution of the atypical Aurora paralog ARK2 to proliferative sexual stages using rodent malaria model Plasmodium berghei. We find that ARK2 primarily localises to the spindle apparatus associated with kinetochores during both mitosis and meiosis. Interactomics and co-localisation studies reveal a unique ARK2 scaffold at the spindle including the microtubule plus end-binding protein EB1 and lacking some other conserved molecules. Gene function studies indicate complementary functions of ARK2 and EB1 in driving endomitotic divisions and thereby parasite transmission. Our discovery of a novel Aurora spindle scaffold underlines the emerging flexibility of molecular networks to rewire and drive unconventional mechanisms of chromosome segregation in the malaria parasite Plasmodium.
PXD031880	36799129	Optimization of the Lead Compound NVP-BHG712 as a Colorectal Cancer Inhibitor. 	Novel Eph receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors block colorectal cancer cell growth	Affinity pulldowns, Kinobeads	The ephrin type-A receptor 2 (EPHA2) kinase belongs to the largest family of receptor tyrosine kinases. There are several indications of an involvement of EPHA2 in the development of infectious diseases and cancer. Despite pharmacological potential, EPHA2 is an under-examined target protein. In this study, we synthesized a series of derivatives of the inhibitor NVP-BHG712 and triazine-based compounds. These compounds were evaluated to determine their potential as kinase inhibitors of EPHA2, including elucidation of their binding mode (X-ray crystallography), affinity (microscale thermophoresis), and selectivity (Kinobeads assay). Eight inhibitors showed affinities in the low-nanomolar regime (KD <10 nM). Testing in up to seven colon cancer cell lines that express EPHA2 reveals that several derivatives feature promising effects for the control of human colon carcinoma. Thus, we have developed a set of powerful tool compounds for fundamental new research on the interplay of EPH receptors in a cellular context.
PXD024977	36799458	Protein O-GlcNAcylation impairment caused by N-acetylglucosamine phosphate mutase deficiency leads to growth variations in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Impaired O-GlcNAcylation rather than N-glycosylation caused by AtAGM deficiency leads to growth variations in Arabidopsis thaliana	Hexosamine biosynthesis pathway, N-acetylglucosamine phosphate mutase, N-glycosylation, O-GlcNAcylation, Temperature-dependent growth defect, UDP-GlcNAc	As an essential enzyme in the uridine diphosphate (UDP)-GlcNAc biosynthesis pathway, the significant role of N-acetylglucosamine phosphate mutase (AGM) remains unknown in plants. In the present study, a functional plant AGM (AtAGM) was identified from Arabidopsis thaliana. AtAGM catalyzes the isomerization of GlcNAc-1-P and GlcNAc-6-P, and has broad catalytic activity on different phosphohexoses. UDP-GlcNAc contents were significantly decreased in AtAGM T-DNA insertional mutants, which caused temperature-dependent growth defects in seedlings and vigorous growth in adult plants. Further analysis revealed that protein O-GlcNAcylation but not N-glycosylation was dramatically impaired in Atagm mutants due to UDP-GlcNAc shortage. Combined with the results from O-GlcNAcylation or N-glycosylation deficient mutants, and O-GlcNAcase inhibitor all suggested that protein O-GlcNAcylation impairment mainly leads to the phenotypic variations of Atagm plants. In conclusion, based on the essential role in UDP-GlcNAc biosynthesis, AtAGM is important for plant growth mainly via protein O-GlcNAcylation-level regulation.
PXD036324	36802530	Comparative Analysis of Protein Folding Stability-Based Profiling Methods for Characterization of Biological Phenotypes. 	One-pot comparative analysis and characterization of young and old mice brain lysates	Thermodynamics, chemical denaturation, protein folding, thermal denaturation	Recently, a new suite of mass spectrometry-based proteomic methods has been developed that enables evaluation of protein folding stability on the proteomic scale. These methods utilize chemical and thermal denaturation approaches (SPROX and TPP, respectively) as well as proteolysis strategies (DARTS, LiP, and PP) to assess protein folding stability. The analytical capabilities of these technique have been well-established for protein target discovery applications. However, less is known about the relative advantages and disadvantages of using these different strategies to characterize biological phenotypes. Reported here is a comparative study of SPROX, TPP, LiP, and conventional protein expression level measurements using both a mouse model of aging and a mammalian cell culture model of breast cancer. Analyses on proteins in brain tissue cell lysates derived from 1- and 18-month-old mice (n = 4-5 at each time point) and on proteins in cell lysates derived from the MCF-7 and MCF-10A cell lines revealed a majority of the differentially stabilized protein hits in each phenotype analysis had unchanged expression levels. In both phenotype analyses, TPP generated the largest number and fraction of differentially stabilized protein hits. Only a quarter of all the protein hits identified in each phenotype analysis had a differential stability that was detected using multiple techniques. This work also reports the first peptide-level analysis of TPP data, which was required for the correct interpretation of the phenotype analyses performed here. Studies on selected protein stability hits also uncovered phenotype-related functional changes.
PXD039314	36804530	Comprehensive Proteomics Analysis Identifies CD38-Mediated NAD(+) Decline Orchestrating Renal Fibrosis in Pediatric Patients With Obstructive Nephropathy. 	Proteomics of obstructed kidneys from patients with obstructive nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction mice	CD38, Kidney proteomics, Obstructive nephropathy, Renal fibrosis	Obstructive nephropathy is one of the leading causes of kidney injury and renal fibrosis in pediatric patients. Although considerable advances have been made in understanding the pathophysiology of obstructive nephropathy, most of them were based on animal experiments and a comprehensive understanding of obstructive nephropathy in pediatric patients at the molecular level remains limited. Here, we performed a comparative proteomics analysis of obstructed kidneys from pediatric patients with ureteropelvic junction obstruction and healthy kidney tissues. Intriguingly, the proteomics revealed extensive metabolic reprogramming in kidneys from individuals with ureteropelvic junction obstruction. Moreover, we uncovered the dysregulation of NAD(+) metabolism and NAD(+)-related metabolic pathways, including mitochondrial dysfunction, the Krebs cycle, and tryptophan metabolism, which led to decreased NAD(+) levels in obstructed kidneys. Importantly, the major NADase CD38 was strongly induced in human and experimental obstructive nephropathy. Genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of CD38 as well as NAD(+) supplementation significantly recovered NAD(+) levels in obstructed kidneys and reduced obstruction-induced renal fibrosis, partially through the mechanisms of blunting the recruitment of immune cells and NF-kappaB signaling. Thus, our work not only provides an enriched resource for future investigations of obstructive nephropathy but also establishes CD38-mediated NAD(+) decline as a potential therapeutic target for obstruction-induced renal fibrosis.
PXD029623	36804936	Identification of global inhibitors of cellular glycosylation. 	Identification of global inhibitors of cellular glycosylation	53 Golgi fragmentation, Glycosylation inhibitor, O-glycosylation, SARS-CoV-2, cell-based glycan array, compound library screen, glycosyltransferases	Small molecule inhibitors of glycosylation enzymes are valuable tools for dissecting glycan functions and potential drug candidates. Screening for inhibitors of glycosyltransferases are mainly performed by in vitro enzyme assays with difficulties moving candidates to cells and animals. Here, we circumvent this by employing a cell-based screening assay using glycoengineered cells expressing tailored reporter glycoproteins. We focused on GalNAc-type O-glycosylation and selected the GalNAc-T11 isoenzyme that selectively glycosylates endocytic low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-related proteins as targets. Our screen of a limited small molecule compound library did not identify selective inhibitors of GalNAc-T11, however, we identify two compounds that broadly inhibited Golgi-localized glycosylation processes. These compounds mediate the reversible fragmentation of the Golgi system without affecting secretion. We demonstrate how these inhibitors can be used to manipulate glycosylation in cells to induce expression of truncated O-glycans and augment binding of cancer-specific Tn-glycoprotein antibodies and to inhibit expression of heparan sulfate and binding and infection of SARS-CoV-2.
PXD040120	36805133	Effects of extremely low-frequency magnetic fields on human MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells: proteomic characterization. 	Proteomic characterization of MDA-MB-231 and MCF-10A breast cells exposed to 1 mT 50 Hz ELF for 4 hours	50 Hz, ELF-MF, Extremely low-frequency magnetic fields, MCF-10A, MDA-MB-231, breast, breast cells	Extremely low-frequency electromagnetic fields (ELF-MF) can modify the cell viability and regulatory processes of some cell types, including breast cancer cells. Breast cancer is a multifactorial disease where a role for ELF-MF cannot be excluded. ELF-MF may influence the biological properties of breast cells through molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways that are still unclear. This study analyzed the changes in the cell viability, cellular morphology, oxidative stress response and alteration of proteomic profile in breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231) exposed to ELF-MF (50 Hz, 1 mT for 4 h). Non-tumorigenic human breast cells (MCF-10A) were used as control cells. Exposed MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells increased their viability and live cell number and showed a higher density and length of filopodia compared with the unexposed cells. In addition, ELF-MF induced an increase of the mitochondrial ROS levels and an alteration of mitochondrial morphology. Proteomic data analysis showed that ELF-MF altered the expression of 328 proteins in MDA-MB-231 cells and of 242 proteins in MCF-10A cells. Gene Ontology term enrichment analysis demonstrated that in both cell lines ELF-MF exposure up-regulated the genes enriched in "focal adhesion" and "mitochondrion". The ELF-MF exposure decreased the adhesive properties of MDA-MB-231 cells and increased the migration and invasion cell abilities. At the same time, proteomic analysis, confirmed by Real Time PCR, revealed that transcription factors associated with cellular reprogramming were upregulated in MDA-MB-231 cells and downregulated in MCF-10A cells after ELF-MF exposure. MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells exposed to 1 mT 50 Hz ELF-MF showed modifications in proteomic profile together with changes in cell viability, cellular morphology, oxidative stress response, adhesion, migration and invasion cell abilities. The main signaling pathways involved were relative to focal adhesion, mitochondrion and cellular reprogramming.
PXD036835	36805336	The aryl sulfonamide indisulam inhibits gastric cancer cell migration by promoting the ubiquitination and degradation of the transcription factor ZEB1. 	Identification of proteins differentially regulated by indisulam in AGS cells using label-free quantitative proteomics	AGS, DCAF15, Label free quantification, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Mass Spectrometer	Gastric cancer is one of the cancers with high morbidity and mortality worldwide. The aryl sulfonamide indisulam inhibits the proliferation of several types of cancer cells through its function as a molecular glue to promote the ubiquitination and degradation of RNA-binding motif protein 39 (RBM39). However, it is unknown whether and how indisulam regulates the migration of cancer cells. In this work, using label-free quantitative proteomics, we discover that indisulam significantly attenuates N-cadherin, a marker for epithelial to mesenchymal transition and migration of cancer cells. Our bioinformatics analysis and biochemical experiments reveal that indisulam promotes the interaction between the zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1), a transcription factor of N-cadherin, and DCAF15, a substrate receptor of CRL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase, and enhances ZEB1 ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. In addition, our cell line-based experiments demonstrate that indisulam inhibits the migration of gastric cancer cells in a ZEB1-dependent manner. Analyses of patient samples and datasets in public databases reveal that tumor tissues from patients with gastric cancer express high ZEB1 mRNA and this high expression reduces patient survival rate. Finally, we show that treatment of gastric tumor samples with indisulam significantly reduces ZEB1 protein levels. Therefore, this work discloses a new mechanism by which indisulam inhibits the migration of gastric cancer cells, indicating that indisulam exhibits different biological functions through distinct signaling molecules.
PXD033884	36805337	Fitm2 is required for ER homeostasis and normal function of murine liver. 	Fitm2 is required for ER homeostasis and normal function of murine liver	FITM2, acyl-CoA, endoplasmic reticulum, lipid metabolism, liver	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident protein fat storage-inducing transmembrane protein 2 (FIT2) catalyzes acyl-CoA cleavage in vitro and is required for ER homeostasis and normal lipid storage in cells. The gene encoding FIT2 is essential for the viability of mice and worms. Whether FIT2 acts as an acyl-CoA diphosphatase in vivo and how this activity affects the liver, where the protein was discovered, are unknown. Here, we report that hepatocyte-specific Fitm2 knockout (FIT2-LKO) mice fed a chow diet exhibited elevated acyl-CoA levels, ER stress, and signs of liver injury. These mice also had more triglycerides in their livers than control littermates due, in part, to impaired secretion of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and reduced capacity for fatty acid oxidation. We found that challenging FIT2-LKO mice with a high-fat diet worsened hepatic ER stress and liver injury but unexpectedly reversed the steatosis phenotype, similar to what is observed in FIT2-deficient cells loaded with fatty acids. Our findings support the model that FIT2 acts as an acyl-CoA diphosphatase in vivo and is crucial for normal hepatocyte function and ER homeostasis in the murine liver.
PXD034281	36805449	Proteomic landscape of the extracellular matrix in the fibrotic kidney. 	Proteomic profiling of the kidney tissue scaffold from normal and fibrotic kidneys	Proteomic profiling, fibrotic kidneys, kidney tissue scaffold	The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a complex three-dimensional network of proteins surrounding cells, forming a niche that controls cell adhesion, proliferation, migration and differentiation. The ECM network provides an architectural scaffold for surrounding cells and undergoes dynamic changes in composition and contents during the evolution of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Here, we unveiled the proteomic landscape of the ECM by delineating proteome-wide and ECM-specific alterations in normal and fibrotic kidneys. Decellularized kidney tissue scaffolds were made and subjected to proteomic profiling by liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 172 differentially expressed proteins were identified in these scaffolds from mice with CKD. Through bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation, we identified a core set of nine signature proteins, which could play a role in establishing an oxidatively stressed, profibrotic, proinflammatory and antiangiogenetic microenvironment. Among these nine proteins, glutathione peroxidase 3 (GPX3) was the only protein with downregulated expression during CKD. Knockdown of GPX3 in vivo augmented ECM expression and aggravated kidney fibrotic lesions after obstructive injury. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that GPX3 depletion resulted in an altered expression of the genes enriched in hypoxia pathway. Knockdown of GPX3 induced NADPH oxidase 2 expression, promoted kidney generation of reactive oxygen species and activated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Conversely, overexpression of exogenous GPX3 alleviated kidney fibrosis, inhibited NADPH oxidase 2 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. These findings suggest that oxidative stress is a pivotal element of the fibrogenic microenvironment. Thus, our studies represent a comprehensive proteomic characterization of the ECM in the fibrotic kidney and provide novel insights into molecular composition of the fibrogenic microenvironment.
PXD043754	36805701	Histone tyrosine sulfation by SULT1B1 regulates H4R3me2a and gene transcription. 	Human Histone Sulfated Tyrosine Identification	Histone Sulfation, Liver	Tyrosine sulfation is a common posttranslational modification in mammals. To date, it has been thought to be limited to secreted and transmembrane proteins, but little is known about tyrosine sulfation on nuclear proteins. Here we report that SULT1B1 is a histone sulfotransferase that can sulfate the tyrosine 99 residue of nascent histone H3 in cytosol. The sulfated histone H3 can be transported into the nucleus and majorly deposited in the promoter regions of genes in chromatin. While the H3Y99 residue is buried inside octameric nucleosome, dynamically regulated subnucleosomal structures provide chromatin-H3Y99sulf the opportunity of being recognized and bound by PRMT1, which deposits H4R3me2a in chromatin. Disruption of H3Y99sulf reduces PRMT1 binding to chromatin, H4R3me2a level and gene transcription. These findings reveal the mechanisms underlying H3Y99 sulfation and its cross-talk with H4R3me2a to regulate gene transcription. This study extends the spectrum of tyrosine sulfation on nuclear proteins and the repertoire of histone modifications regulating chromatin functions.
PXD039128	36805822	Proteomic analysis of the mouse sperm acrosome - towards an understanding of an organelle with diverse functionality. 	Proteomes of acrosomes and acrosome-reacted sperm of the house mouse	Mus musculus, acrosome, label free	The acrosome located within the mammalian sperm head is essential for successful fertilization, as it enables the sperm to penetrate the extracellular layers of the oocyte and fuse with oolemma. However, the mammalian acrosomal vesicle is no longer considered to contain only hydrolytic enzymes. Using label-free nano-scale liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS) proteomics, we identified a total of 885 proteins in the acrosome isolated from spermatozoa obtained from cauda epididymis of free-living house mice Mus musculus musculus contains a total of 885 proteins. Among these, 334 proteins were significantly enriched in the acrosome thus representing 27.3% of the whole proteome of the intact sperm. Importantly, we have detected a total of nine calycins while eight of them belong to the lipocalin protein family. In mice, lipocalins are involved in multi-level chemical communication between individuals including pheromone transport and odor perception. Using an indirect immunofluorescence assay, we demonstrated that lipocalin 5 (LCN5) is expressed in the mouse germ cells, and after completing spermatogenesis, it remains localized in the sperm acrosome until the last step of the extratesticular maturation, the acrosome reaction. The presence of lipocalins in the acrosome and acrosome-reacted sperm suggests their original role as chelators of organic and potentially toxic compounds resulting from ongoing spermiogenesis. Along with this evidence, detected mitochondrial (e.g., a subunit of the cytochrome c oxidase MTCO1) and proteasomal proteins (subunits of both 20 S core proteasome [PSMA2, PSMBs] and 19 S regulatory particle [PSMDs]) in acrosomes provide further evidence that acrosomes could also function as `waste baskets` after testicular sperm maturation.
PXD037378	36805918	HER2 as a potential therapeutic target on quiescent prostate cancer cells. 	Quantification of membrane protein expression in G0 and G1 cell cycle phase samples in PC3 prostate cancer cells	Cell Cycle, Disseminated Tumor Cells, Dormancy, ERBB2, G0, G1, HER2, Prostate Cancer, Quiescent	Quiescent prostate cancer (PCa) cells are common in tumors but are often resistant to chemotherapy. Quiescent PCa cells are also enriched for a stem-like tumor initiating population, and can lead to recurrence after dormancy. Unfortunately, quiescent PCa cells are difficult to identify and / or target with treatment in part because the relevant markers are intracellular and regulated by protein stability. We addressed this problem by utilizing PCa cells expressing fluorescent markers for CDKN1B (p27) and CDT1, which can separate viable PCa cells into G0, G1, or combined S/G2/M populations. We used FACS to collect G1 and G0 PC3 PCa cells, isolated membrane proteins, and analyzed protein abundance in G0 vs G1 cells by gas chromatography mass spectrometry. Enrichment analysis identified nucleocytoplasmic transport as the most significantly different pathway. To identify cell surface proteins potentially identifying quiescent PCa cells for future patient samples or for antibody based therapeutic research, we focused on differentially abundant plasma membrane proteins, and identified ERBB2 (HER2) as a cell surface protein enriched on G0 PCa cells. High HER2 on the cell membrane is associated with quiescence in PCa cells and likely induced by the bone microenvironment. Using a drug conjugated anti-HER2 antibody (trastuzumab emtansine) in a mouse PCa xenograft model delayed metastatic tumor growth, suggesting approaches that target HER2-high cells may be beneficial in treating PCa. We propose that HER2 is deserving of further study in PCa as a target on quiescent cells to prevent recurrence, decrease chemotherapy resistance, or eradicate minimal residual disease.
PXD024577	36806353	Famsin, a novel gut-secreted hormone, contributes to metabolic adaptations to fasting via binding to its receptor OLFR796. 	The cleavage site identification of Gm11437 by LC-MSMS	To determine the amino acid sequence of Gm11437 N-terminal product purified from Sf9 conditional medium	The intestine is responsible for nutrient absorption and orchestrates metabolism in different organs during feeding, a process which is partly controlled by intestine-derived hormones. However, it is unclear whether the intestine plays an important role in metabolism during fasting. Here we have identified a novel hormone, famsin, which is secreted from the intestine and promotes metabolic adaptations to fasting. Mechanistically, famsin is shed from a single-pass transmembrane protein, Gm11437, during fasting and then binds OLFR796, an olfactory receptor, to activate intracellular calcium mobilization. This famsin-OLFR796 signaling axis promotes gluconeogenesis and ketogenesis for energy mobilization, and torpor for energy conservation during fasting. In addition, neutralization of famsin by an antibody improves blood glucose profiles in diabetic models, which identifies famsin as a potential therapeutic target for treating diabetes. Therefore, our results demonstrate that communication between the intestine and other organs by a famsin-OLFR796 signaling axis is critical for metabolic adaptations to fasting.
PXD039894	36806709	MBOAT7-driven lysophosphatidylinositol acylation in adipocytes contributes to systemic glucose homeostasis. 	MBOAT7-Driven Lysophosphatidylinositol Acylation in Adipocytes Contributes to Systemic Glucose Homeostasis	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, acyltransferase, arachidonic acid, diabetes, hepatocytes, hyperinsulinemia, metabolism, obesity, phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis, systemic insulin resistance	We previously demonstrated that antisense oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown of Mboat7, the gene encoding membrane bound O-acyltransferase 7, in the liver and adipose tissue of mice promoted high fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis, hyperinsulinemia, and systemic insulin resistance. Thereafter, other groups showed that hepatocyte-specific genetic deletion of Mboat7 promoted striking fatty liver and NAFLD progression in mice but does not alter insulin sensitivity, suggesting the potential for cell autonomous roles. Here, we show that MBOAT7 function in adipocytes contributes to diet-induced metabolic disturbances including hyperinsulinemia and systemic insulin resistance. We generated Mboat7 floxed mice and created hepatocyte- and adipocyte-specific Mboat7 knockout mice using Cre-recombinase mice under the control of the albumin and adiponectin promoter, respectively. Here, we show that MBOAT7 function in adipocytes contributes to diet-induced metabolic disturbances including hyperinsulinemia and systemic insulin resistance. The expression of Mboat7 in white adipose tissue closely correlates with diet-induced obesity across a panel of ~100 inbred strains of mice fed a high fat/high sucrose diet. Moreover, we found that adipocyte-specific genetic deletion of Mboat7 is sufficient to promote hyperinsulinemia, systemic insulin resistance, and mild fatty liver. Unlike in the liver, where Mboat7 plays a relatively minor role in maintaining arachidonic acid-containing PI pools, Mboat7 is the major source of arachidonic acid-containing PI pools in adipose tissue. Our data demonstrate that MBOAT7 is a critical regulator of adipose tissue PI homeostasis, and adipocyte MBOAT7-driven PI biosynthesis is closely linked to hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance in mice.
PXD038860	36807337	Quantitative SWATH-based proteomic profiling of urine for the identification of endometrial cancer biomarkers in symptomatic women. 	Quantitative SWATH-Based Proteomic Profiling of Urine for the Identification of Endometrial Cancer Biomarkers in Symptomatic Women	Endometrial cancer, SWATH, Urine	BACKGROUND: A non-invasive endometrial cancer detection tool that can accurately triage symptomatic women for definitive testing would improve patient care. Urine is an attractive biofluid for cancer detection due to its simplicity and ease of collection. The aim of this study was to identify urine-based proteomic signatures that can discriminate endometrial cancer patients from symptomatic controls. METHODS: This was a prospective case-control study of symptomatic post-menopausal women (50 cancers, 54 controls). Voided self-collected urine samples were processed for mass spectrometry and run using sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH-MS). Machine learning techniques were used to identify important discriminatory proteins, which were subsequently combined in multi-marker panels using logistic regression. RESULTS: The top discriminatory proteins individually showed moderate accuracy (AUC > 0.70) for endometrial cancer detection. However, algorithms combining the most discriminatory proteins performed well with AUCs > 0.90. The best performing diagnostic model was a 10-marker panel combining SPRR1B, CRNN, CALML3, TXN, FABP5, C1RL, MMP9, ECM1, S100A7 and CFI and predicted endometrial cancer with an AUC of 0.92 (0.96-0.97). Urine-based protein signatures showed good accuracy for the detection of early-stage cancers (AUC 0.92 (0.86-0.9)). CONCLUSION: A patient-friendly, urine-based test could offer a non-invasive endometrial cancer detection tool in symptomatic women. Validation in a larger independent cohort is warranted.
PXD036256	36807525	Integrated tandem affinity protein purification using the polyhistidine plus extra 4 amino acids (HiP4) tag system. 	Integrated Tandem Affinity Protein Purification Using the Polyhistidine plus Extra 4 Amino Acids (HiP4) Tag System	Interactome, Peptide tag, Protein purification, Protein-protein interaction, Tandem affinity purification	Peptide tag systems are a robust biophysical and biochemical method that is widely used for protein detection and purification. Here, we developed a novel tag system termed "HiP4" (histidine plus four amino acids) whose epitope sequence comprises only seven amino acids (HHHDYDI) that partially overlap with the conventional 6x histidine tag (6xHis-tag). We produced a monoclonal antibody against the HiP4 tag that can be used in multiple immunoassays with high specificity and affinity. Using this system, we developed a tandem affinity purification (TAP) and mass spectrometry (TAP-MS) system for comprehensive protein interactome analysis. The integrated use of nickel bead purification followed by HiP4 tag immunoprecipitation made it possible to reduce nonspecific binding and improve selectivity, leading to the recovery of previously unrecognized proteins that interact with hepatitis B virus X (HBx) protein or TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TARDBP or TDP-43). Our results indicate that this system may be viable as a simple and powerful tool for TAP-MS that can achieve low background and high selectivity in comprehensive protein-protein interaction analyses.
PXD035141	36810097	The Alzheimer's disease-linked protease BACE1 modulates neuronal IL-6 signaling through shedding of the receptor gp130. 	Pharmacoproteomics of non-human primate cerebrospinal fluid after BACE inhibition	Alzheimers disease, BACE, CSF, Cerebrospinal Fluid, beta secretase	BACKGROUND: The protease BACE1 is a major drug target for Alzheimer's disease, but chronic BACE1 inhibition is associated with non-progressive cognitive worsening that may be caused by modulation of unknown physiological BACE1 substrates. METHODS: To identify in vivo-relevant BACE1 substrates, we applied pharmacoproteomics to non-human-primate cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) after acute treatment with BACE inhibitors. RESULTS: Besides SEZ6, the strongest, dose-dependent reduction was observed for the pro-inflammatory cytokine receptor gp130/IL6ST, which we establish as an in vivo BACE1 substrate. Gp130 was also reduced in human CSF from a clinical trial with a BACE inhibitor and in plasma of BACE1-deficient mice. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that BACE1 directly cleaves gp130, thereby attenuating membrane-bound gp130 and increasing soluble gp130 abundance and controlling gp130 function in neuronal IL-6 signaling and neuronal survival upon growth-factor withdrawal. CONCLUSION: BACE1 is a new modulator of gp130 function. The BACE1-cleaved, soluble gp130 may serve as a pharmacodynamic BACE1 activity marker to reduce the occurrence of side effects of chronic BACE1 inhibition in humans.
PXD037060	36810563	Enzymatic Investigation of Spongospora subterranea Zoospore Attachment to Roots of Potato Cultivars Resistant or Susceptible to Powdery Scab Disease. 	Enzymatic investigation of Spongospora subterranea zoospore attachment to roots of potato cultivars resistant or susceptible to powdery scab disease	Solanum tuberosum, Spongospora subterranea, cell wall modification, host resistance, trypsin shaving	For potato crops, host resistance is currently the most effective and sustainable tool to manage diseases caused by the plasmodiophorid Spongospora subterranea. Arguably, zoospore root attachment is the most critical phase of infection; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. This study investigated the potential role of root-surface cell-wall polysaccharides and proteins in cultivars resistant/susceptible to zoospore attachment. We first compared the effects of enzymatic removal of root cell-wall proteins, N-linked glycans and polysaccharides on S. subterranea attachment. Subsequent analysis of peptides released by trypsin shaving (TS) of root segments identified 262 proteins that were differentially abundant between cultivars. These were enriched in root-surface-derived peptides but also included intracellular proteins, e.g., proteins associated with glutathione metabolism and lignin biosynthesis, which were more abundant in the resistant cultivar. Comparison with whole-root proteomic analysis of the same cultivars identified 226 proteins specific to the TS dataset, of which 188 were significantly different. Among these, the pathogen-defence-related cell-wall protein stem 28 kDa glycoprotein and two major latex proteins were significantly less abundant in the resistant cultivar. A further major latex protein was reduced in the resistant cultivar in both the TS and whole-root datasets. In contrast, three glutathione S-transferase proteins were more abundant in the resistant cultivar (TS-specific), while the protein glucan endo-1,3-beta-glucosidase was increased in both datasets. These results imply a particular role for major latex proteins and glucan endo-1,3-beta-glucosidase in regulating zoospore binding to potato roots and susceptibility to S. subterranea.
PXD038881	36814757	Chitosan oligosaccharide as a plant immune inducer on the Passiflora spp. (passion fruit) CMV disease. 	Proteomics Study of Passion Fruit Treated by Spraying Disease resistant DrugsFruit	Disease resistant Drugs, Passion Fruit, Proteomic Study	Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), one of the main viruses, is responsible for Passiflora spp. (passion fruit) virus diseases, which negatively affect its planting, cultivation, and commercial quality. In this study, a laboratory anti-CMV activity screening model for Passiflora spp. CMV disease was first established. Then, the effects of different antiviral agents of chitosan oligosaccharide (COS), dufulin (DFL), and ningnanmycin (Ning) on CMV virulence rate in Passiflora spp. were determined. The virulence rate and anti-CMV activity in Passiflora spp. treated with COS were 50% and 45.48%, respectively, which were even better than those of DFL (66.67% and 27.30%, respectively) and Ning (83.30% and 9.17%, respectively). Field trials test results showed COS revealed better average control efficiency (47.35%) against Passiflora spp. CMV disease than those of DFL (40.93%) and Ning (33.82%), indicating that COS is effective in the control of the Passiflora spp. CMV disease. Meanwhile, the nutritional quality test results showed that COS could increase the contents of soluble solids, titratable acids, vitamin C, and soluble proteins in Passiflora spp. fruits as well as enhance the polyphenol oxidase (PPO), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and peroxidase (POD) activity in the leaves of Passiflora spp. seedlings. In addition, the combined transcriptome and proteome analysis results showed that COS mainly acted on the Brassinosteroids (BRs) cell signaling pathway, one of plant hormone signal transduction pathway, in Passiflora spp., thus activating the up-regulated expression of TCH4 and CYCD3 genes to improve the resistance to CMV disease. Therefore, our study results demonstrated that COS could be used as a potential plant immune inducer to control the Passiflora spp. CMV disease in the future.
PXD035521	36815589	Protein complexes in cells by AI-assisted structural proteomics. 	Protein complexes in cells by AI-assisted structural proteomics (Proteomics) 	Bacillus subtilis, Label-free-quantifiction, protein-protein interaction	Accurately modeling the structures of proteins and their complexes using artificial intelligence is revolutionizing molecular biology. Experimental data enable a candidate-based approach to systematically model novel protein assemblies. Here, we use a combination of in-cell crosslinking mass spectrometry and co-fractionation mass spectrometry (CoFrac-MS) to identify protein-protein interactions in the model Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis. We show that crosslinking interactions prior to cell lysis reveals protein interactions that are often lost upon cell lysis. We predict the structures of these protein interactions and others in the SubtiWiki database with AlphaFold-Multimer and, after controlling for the false-positive rate of the predictions, we propose novel structural models of 153 dimeric and 14 trimeric protein assemblies. Crosslinking MS data independently validates the AlphaFold predictions and scoring. We report and validate novel interactors of central cellular machineries that include the ribosome, RNA polymerase, and pyruvate dehydrogenase, assigning function to several uncharacterized proteins. Our approach uncovers protein-protein interactions inside intact cells, provides structural insight into their interaction interfaces, and is applicable to genetically intractable organisms, including pathogenic bacteria.
PXD035364	36816695	Antibacterial and Antibiofilm Activities of Sertindole and Its Antibacterial Mechanism against Staphylococcus aureus. 	The antibacterial mechanism of sertindole against Staphylococcus aureus	Staphylococcus aureus, sertindole	As methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus has become the most prevalent antibiotic-resistant pathogen in many countries, there is an urgent demand to develop novel antibacterial agents. The purpose of this study is to investigate sertindole's antibacterial and antibiofilm properties, as well as its antibacterial mechanism against S. aureus. The MIC50 and MIC90 values for sertindole against S. aureus were both determined to be 50 muM, and sertindole significantly reduced S. aureus growth at a subinhibitory concentration of 1/2x MIC. Sertindole also showed remarkable potency in inhibiting the development of biofilms. Additionally, proteomic analysis revealed that sertindole could dramatically decrease the biosynthesis of amino acids and trigger the cell wall stress response and oxidative stress response. A series of tests, including membrane permeability assays, quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR, and electron microscope observations, revealed that sertindole disrupts cell integrity. The two-component system VraS/VraR knockout S. epidermis strain also showed enhanced sensitivity to sertindole. Overall, our data suggested that sertindole exhibited antibacterial and biofilm-inhibiting activities against S. aureus and that its antibacterial actions may involve the destruction of cell integrity.
PXD040707	36822329	SET7 methylates the deubiquitinase OTUB1 at Lys (122) to impair its binding to E2 enzyme UBC13 and relieve its suppressive role on ferroptosis. 	SET7 methylates the deubiquitinase OTUB1 at Lys 122	OTUB1, SET7, methylation	The deubiquitinating enzyme OTUB1 possesses canonical deubiquitinase (DUB) activity and noncanonical, catalytic-independent activity, which has been identified as an essential regulator of diverse physiological processes. Posttranslational modifications of OTUB1 affect both its DUB activity and its noncanonical activity of binding to the E2 ubiquitin-conjugation enzyme UBC13, but further investigation is needed to characterize the full inventory of modifications to OTUB1. Here, we demonstrate that SET7, a lysine monomethylase, directly interacts with OTUB1 to catalyze OTUB1 methylation at lysine 122. This modification does not affect DUB activity of OTUB1 but impairs its noncanonical activity, binding to UBC13. Moreover, we found using cell viability analysis and intracellular reactive oxygen species assay that SET7-mediated methylation of OTUB1 relieves its suppressive role on ferroptosis. Notably, the methylation-mimic mutant of OTUB1 not only loses the ability to bind to UBC13 but also relieves its suppressive role on Tert-Butyl hydroperoxide-induced cell death and Cystine starvation/Erastin-induced cellular reactive oxygen species. Collectively, our data identify a novel modification of OTUB1 that is critical for inhibiting its noncanonical activity.
PXD030396	36822346	Pterosin sesquiterpenoids from Pteris laeta Wall. ex Ettingsh. protect cells from glutamate excitotoxicity by modulating mitochondrial signals. 	Pterosin B treatment  protect cells from glutamate-induced cytotoxicity	ROS, glutamate excitotoxicity, mitochondria membrane potential, neuroprotective natural products	ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Pteris (Pteridaceae) has been used as a traditional herb for a long time. In particular, Pteris laeta Wall. ex Ettingsh. has been widely used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat nervous system diseases and some pterosin sesquiterpenes from Pteris show neuroprotective activity, but their underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. Therefore, to investigate the neuroprotective activity and working mechanism of pterosin sesquiterpenes from P. laeta Wall. ex Ettingsh. will provide a better understanding and guidance in using P. laeta Wall. ex Ettingsh. as a traditional Chinese medicine. AIM OF THE STUDY: We aim to develop effective treatments for neurodegenerative diseases from pterosin sesquiterpenes by evaluating their neuroprotective activity and investigating their working mechanisms. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Primary screening on the glutamate-induced excitotoxicity cell model was assessed by 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-Diphenyltetrazolium Bromide (MTT) assay. Fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS) was used to analyze the activation level of glutamate receptors and mitochondria membrane potential after treatment. Transcriptomics and proteomics analysis was performed to identify possible targets of pterosin B. The key pathways were enriched by the Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis through the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery (DAVID). The core targets were visualized by a protein-protein interaction network using STRING. The mRNA and protein expressions were evaluated using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) and western blot, respectively. Immunocytochemistry was performed to monitor mitochondrial and apoptotic proteins. Cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured by ROS assay, and Ca(2+) was stained with Fluo-4 AM to quantify intracellular Ca(2+) levels. RESULTS: We found pterosin B from Pteris laeta Wall. ex Ettingsh. showed significant neuroprotective activity against glutamate excitotoxicity, enhancing cell viability from 43.8% to 105% (p-value: <0.0001). We demonstrated that pterosin B worked on the downstream signaling pathways of glutamate excitotoxicity rather than directly blocking the activation of glutamate receptors. Pterosin B restored mitochondria membrane potentials, alleviated intracellular calcium overload from 107.4% to 95.47% (p-value: 0.0006), eliminated cellular ROS by 36.55% (p-value: 0.0143), and partially secured cells from LPS-induced inflammation by increasing cell survival from 46.75% to 58.5% (p-value: 0.0114). Notably, pterosin B enhanced the expression of nuclear factor-erythroid factor 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) by 2.86-fold (p-value: 0.0006) and 4.24-fold (p-value: 0.0012), and down-regulated Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1) expression by 2.5-fold (p-value: 0.0107), indicating that it possibly promotes mitochondrial biogenesis and mitophagy to maintain mitochondria quality control and homeostasis, and ultimately inhibits apoptotic cell death. CONCLUSIONS: Our work revealed that pterosin B protected cells from glutamate excitotoxicity by targeting the downstream mitochondrial signals, making it a valuable candidate for developing potential therapeutic agents in treating neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD035061	36823188	PHGDH arginine methylation by PRMT1 promotes serine synthesis and represents a therapeutic vulnerability in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	PHGDH Arginine Methylation by PRMT1 Promotes Serine Synthesis and Represents a Therapeutic Vulnerability in Hepatocellular Carcinoma	PHGDH, arginine methylation	Serine synthesis is crucial for tumor growth and survival, but its regulatory mechanism in cancer remains elusive. Here, using integrative metabolomics and transcriptomics analyses, we show a heterogeneity between metabolite and transcript profiles. Specifically, the level of serine in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissues is increased, whereas the expression of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), the first rate-limiting enzyme in serine biosynthesis pathway, is markedly downregulated. Interestingly, the increased serine level is obtained by enhanced PHGDH catalytic activity due to protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1)-mediated methylation of PHGDH at arginine 236. PRMT1-mediated PHGDH methylation and activation potentiates serine synthesis, ameliorates oxidative stress, and promotes HCC growth in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, PRMT1-mediated PHGDH methylation correlates with PHGDH hyperactivation and serine accumulation in human HCC tissues, and is predictive of poor prognosis of HCC patients. Notably, blocking PHGDH methylation with a TAT-tagged nonmethylated peptide inhibits serine synthesis and restrains HCC growth in an HCC patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model and subcutaneous HCC cell-derived xenograft model. Overall, our findings reveal a regulatory mechanism of PHGDH activity and serine synthesis, and suggest PHGDH methylation as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in HCC.
PXD035049	36823285	Aggrelyte-2 promotes protein solubility and decreases lens stiffness through lysine acetylation and disulfide reduction: Implications for treating presbyopia. 	Aggrelyte-2 Promotes Protein Solubility and Decreases Stiffness in Lenses through Lysine Acetylation and Disulfide Reduction	Acetylation, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Eye, Human Proteome Project, Lens, Lysine, PTM, ProteomeXchange project tag: EyeOME (B/D-HPP)	Aging proteins in the lens become increasingly aggregated and insoluble, contributing to presbyopia. In this study, we investigated the ability of aggrelyte-2 (N,S-diacetyl-L-cysteine methyl ester) to reverse the water insolubility of aged human lens proteins and to decrease stiffness in cultured human and mouse lenses. Water-insoluble proteins (WI) of aged human lenses (65-75 years) were incubated with aggrelyte-2 (500 muM) for 24 or 48 h. A control compound that lacked the S-acetyl group (aggrelyte-2C) was also tested. We observed 19%-30% solubility of WI upon treatment with aggrelyte-2. Aggrelyte-2C also increased protein solubility, but its effect was approximately 1.4-fold lower than that of aggrelyte-2. The protein thiol contents were 1.9- to 4.9-fold higher in the aggrelyte-2- and aggrelyte-2C-treated samples than in the untreated samples. The LC-MS/MS results showed N(epsilon) -acetyllysine (AcK) levels of 1.5 to 2.1 nmol/mg protein and 0.6 to 0.9 nmol/mg protein in the aggrelyte-2- and aggrelyte-2C-treated samples. Mouse (C57BL/6J) lenses (incubated for 24 h) and human lenses (incubated for 72 h) with 1.0 mM aggrelyte-2 showed significant decreases in stiffness with simultaneous increases in soluble proteins (human lenses) and protein-AcK levels, and such changes were not observed in aggrelyte-2C-treated lenses. Mass spectrometry of the solubilized protein revealed AcK in all crystallins, but more was observed in alpha-crystallins. These results suggest that aggrelyte-2 increases protein solubility and decreases lens stiffness through acetylation and disulfide reduction. Aggrelyte-2 might be useful in treating presbyopia in humans.
PXD033383	36823366	The HLA ligandome of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas reveals shared tumour-exclusive peptides for semi-personalised vaccination. 	The HLA-ligandome of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas reveals shared tumor-exclusive peptides for semi-personalized vaccination	HLA, HPV, Immunopeptidome, Immunopeptidomics, OPSCC, Oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma, Tumor-associated antigen	BACKGROUND: The immune peptidome of OPSCC has not previously been studied. Cancer-antigen specific vaccination may improve clinical outcome and efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors such as PD1/PD-L1 antibodies. METHODS: Mapping of the OPSCC HLA ligandome was performed by mass spectrometry (MS) based analysis of naturally presented HLA ligands isolated from tumour tissue samples (n = 40) using immunoaffinity purification. The cohort included 22 HPV-positive (primarily HPV-16) and 18 HPV-negative samples. A benign reference dataset comprised of the HLA ligandomes of benign haematological and tissue datasets was used to identify tumour-associated antigens. RESULTS: MS analysis led to the identification of naturally HLA-presented peptides in OPSCC tumour tissue. In total, 22,769 peptides from 9485 source proteins were detected on HLA class I. For HLA class II, 15,203 peptides from 4634 source proteins were discovered. By comparative profiling against the benign HLA ligandomic datasets, 29 OPSCC-associated HLA class I ligands covering 11 different HLA allotypes and nine HLA class II ligands were selected to create a peptide warehouse. CONCLUSION: Tumour-associated peptides are HLA-presented on the cell surfaces of OPSCCs. The established warehouse of OPSCC-associated peptides can be used for downstream immunogenicity testing and peptide-based immunotherapy in (semi)personalised strategies.
PXD038909	36824055	Spatial Lipidomic Profiling of Mouse Joint Tissue Demonstrates the Essential Role of PHOSPHO1 in Growth Plate Homeostasis. 	Spatial lipidomic profiling of mouse joint tissue demonstrates the essential role of PHOSPHO1 in growth plate homeostasis	MALDI-IMS, PHOSPHO1, bone modelling and remodelling, disorders of calcium or phosphate metabolism, growth plate, knee joint, lipids, matrix mineralisation	Lipids play a crucial role in signaling and metabolism, regulating the development and maintenance of the skeleton. Membrane lipids have been hypothesized to act as intermediates upstream of orphan phosphatase 1 (PHOSPHO1), a major contributor to phosphate generation required for bone mineralization. Here, we spatially resolve the lipid atlas of the healthy mouse knee and demonstrate the effects of PHOSPHO1 ablation on the growth plate lipidome. Lipids spanning 17 subclasses were mapped across the knee joints of healthy juvenile and adult mice using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization imaging mass spectrometry (MALDI-IMS), with annotation supported by shotgun lipidomics. Multivariate analysis identified 96 and 80 lipid ions with differential abundances across joint tissues in juvenile and adult mice, respectively. In both ages, marrow was enriched in phospholipid platelet activating factors (PAFs) and related metabolites, cortical bone had a low lipid content, whereas lysophospholipids were strikingly enriched in the growth plate, an active site of mineralization and PHOSPHO1 activity. Spatially-resolved profiling of PHOSPHO1-knockout (KO) mice across the resting, proliferating, and hypertrophic growth plate zones revealed 272, 306, and 296 significantly upregulated, and 155, 220, and 190 significantly downregulated features, respectively, relative to wild-type (WT) controls. Of note, phosphatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylcholine, sphingomyelin, lysophosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylethanolamine derived lipid ions were upregulated in PHOSPHO1-KO versus WT. Our imaging pipeline has established a spatially-resolved lipid signature of joint tissues and has demonstrated that PHOSPHO1 ablation significantly alters the growth plate lipidome, highlighting an essential role of the PHOSPHO1-mediated membrane phospholipid metabolism in lipid and bone homeostasis. (c) 2023 The Authors. Journal of Bone and Mineral Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR).
PXD031043	36824274	Transcriptome, proteome, and protein synthesis within the intracellular cytomatrix. 	The proteome of cytomatrix and cytosol	cytomatrix, cytomedia, cytoplasm, cytosol, high throughput analysis, mass-spectrometry	Despite the knowledge that protein translation and various metabolic reactions that create and sustain cellular life occur in the cytoplasm, the structural organization within the cytoplasm remains unclear. Recent models indicate that cytoplasm contains viscous fluid and elastic solid phases. We separated these viscous fluid and solid elastic compartments, which we call the cytosol and cytomatrix, respectively. The distinctive composition of the cytomatrix included structural proteins, ribosomes, and metabolome enzymes. High-throughput analysis revealed unique biosynthetic pathways within the cytomatrix. Enrichment of biosynthetic pathways in the cytomatrix indicated the presence of immobilized biocatalysis. Enzymatic immobilization and segregation can surmount spatial impediments, and the local pathway segregation may form cytoplasmic organelles. Protein translation was reprogrammed within the cytomatrix under the restriction of protein synthesis by drug treatment. The cytosol and cytomatrix are an elaborately interconnected network that promotes operational flexibility in healthy cells and the survival of malignant cells.
PXD034548	36824279	Differential proteomic patterns of plasma extracellular vesicles show potential to discriminate beta-thalassemia subtypes. 	beta-thalassemia plasma EVs proteomics	biomarker, extracellular vesicles (EVs), beta-thalassemia	The observed specificity of beta-thalassemia-subtype phenotypes makes new diagnostic strategies that complement current screening methods necessary to determine each subtype and facilitate therapeutic regimens for different patients. Here, we performed quantitative proteomics of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) of beta-thalassemia major (TM) patients, beta-thalassemia intermedia (TI) patients, and healthy controls to explore subgroup characteristics and potential biomarkers. Plasma quantitative proteomics among the same cohorts were analyzed in parallel to compare the biomarker potential of both specimens. EV proteomics showed significantly more abnormalities in immunity and lipid metabolism in TI and TM, respectively. The differential proteomic patterns of EVs were consistent with but more striking than those of plasma. Notably, we also found EV proteins to have a superior performance for discriminating beta-thalassemia subtypes. These findings allowed us to propose a diagnostic model consisting of five proteins in EVs with subtyping potential, demonstrating the ability of plasma-derived EVs for the diagnosis of beta-thalassemia patients.
PXD029449	36824285	Global profiling of AMG510 modified proteins identified tumor suppressor KEAP1 as an off-target. 	Global profiling of AMG510 modified proteins identified tumor suppressor KEAP1 as an off-target	AMG510	KRAS inhibitor AMG510 covalently modifies the G12C residue and inactivates the KRAS/G12C function. Because there are many reactive cysteines in the proteome, it is important to characterize AMG510 on-target modification and off-targets. Here, we presented a streamlined workflow to measure abundant AMG510 modified peptides including that of KRAS/G12C by direct profiling, and a pan-AMG510 antibody peptide IP workflow to profile less abundant AMG510 off-targets. We identified over 300 off-target sites with three distinct kinetic patterns, expanding the AMG510 modified proteome involved in the nucleocytoplasmic transport, response to oxidative stress, adaptive immune system, and glycolysis. We found that AMG510 covalently modified cys339 of ALDOA and inhibited its enzyme activity. Moreover, AMG510 modified KEAP1 cys288 and induced NRF2 accumulation in the nuclear of NSCLC cells independent of KRAS/G12C mutation. Our study provides a comprehensive resource of protein off-targets of AMG510 and elucidates potential toxicological sideeffects for this covalent KRASG12C inhibitor.
PXD034788	36828127	Large-Scale Immunopeptidome Analysis Reveals Recurrent Posttranslational Splicing of Cancer- and Immune-Associated Genes. 	Large-Scale Immuno-Peptidome Analysis Reveals Recurrent Post-Translational Splicing of Cancer and Immune-Associated Genes	Melanoma	Posttranslational spliced peptides (PTSPs) are a unique class of peptides that have been found to be presented by HLA class-I molecules in cancer. Thus far, no consensus has been reached on the proportion of PTSPs in the immunopeptidome, with estimates ranging from 2% to as high as 45% and stirring significant debate. Furthermore, the role of the HLA class-II pathway in PTSP presentation has been studied only in diabetes. Here, we exploit our large-scale cancer peptidomics database and our newly devised pipeline for filtering spliced peptide predictions to identify recurring spliced peptides, both for HLA class-I and class-II complexes. Our results indicate that HLA class-I-spliced peptides account for a low percentage of the immunopeptidome (less than 3.1%) yet are larger in number relative to other types of identified aberrant peptides. Therefore, spliced peptides significantly contribute to the repertoire of presented peptides in cancer cells. In addition, we identified HLA class-II-bound spliced peptides, but to a lower extent (less than 0.5%). The identified spliced peptides include cancer- and immune-associated genes, such as the MITF oncogene, DAPK1 tumor suppressor, and HLA-E, which were validated using synthetic peptides. The potential immunogenicity of the DAPK1- and HLA-E-derived PTSPs was also confirmed. In addition, a reanalysis of our published mouse single-cell clone immunopeptidome dataset showed that most of the spliced peptides were found repeatedly in a large number of the single-cell clones. Establishing a novel search-scheme for the discovery and evaluation of recurring PTSPs among cancer patients may assist in identifying potential novel targets for immunotherapy.
PXD039906	36828823	From tuberculosis bedside to bench: UBE2B splicing as a potential biomarker and its regulatory mechanism. 	Ubiquitination Proteome of heat-killed MTB stimulated Thp-1-derived macrophages	quantitative proteomics, ubiquitination	Alternative splicing (AS) is an important approach for pathogens and hosts to remodel transcriptome. However, tuberculosis (TB)-related AS has not been sufficiently explored. Here we presented the first landscape of TB-related AS by long-read sequencing, and screened four AS events (S100A8-intron1-retention intron, RPS20-exon1-alternaitve promoter, KIF13B-exon4-skipping exon (SE) and UBE2B-exon7-SE) as potential biomarkers in an in-house cohort-1. The validations in an in-house cohort-2 (2274 samples) and public datasets (1557 samples) indicated that the latter three AS events are potential promising biomarkers for TB diagnosis, but not for TB progression and prognosis. The excellent performance of classifiers further underscored the diagnostic value of these three biomarkers. Subgroup analyses indicated that UBE2B-exon7-SE splicing was not affected by confounding factors and thus had relatively stable performance. The splicing of UBE2B-exon7-SE can be changed by heat-killed mycobacterium tuberculosis through inhibiting SRSF1 expression. After heat-killed mycobacterium tuberculosis stimulation, 231 ubiquitination proteins in macrophages were differentially expressed, and most of them are apoptosis-related proteins. Taken together, we depicted a global TB-associated splicing profile, developed TB-related AS biomarkers, demonstrated an optimal application scope of target biomarkers and preliminarily elucidated mycobacterium tuberculosis-host interaction from the perspective of splicing, offering a novel insight into the pathophysiology of TB.
PXD037866	36829202	Using protein-per-mRNA differences among human tissues in codon optimization. 	PRM of eGFP and mCherry in human cells	PRM, kidney, lung	BACKGROUND: Codon usage and nucleotide composition of coding sequences have profound effects on protein expression. However, while it is recognized that different tissues have distinct tRNA profiles and codon usages in their transcriptomes, the effect of tissue-specific codon optimality on protein synthesis remains elusive. RESULTS: We leverage existing state-of-the-art transcriptomics and proteomics datasets from the GTEx project and the Human Protein Atlas to compute the protein-to-mRNA ratios of 36 human tissues. Using this as a proxy of translational efficiency, we build a machine learning model that identifies codons enriched or depleted in specific tissues. We detect two clusters of tissues with an opposite pattern of codon preferences. We then use these identified patterns for the development of CUSTOM, a codon optimizer algorithm which suggests a synonymous codon design in order to optimize protein production in a tissue-specific manner. In human cell-line models, we provide evidence that codon optimization should take into account particularities of the translational machinery of the tissues in which the target proteins are expressed and that our approach can design genes with tissue-optimized expression profiles. CONCLUSIONS: We provide proof-of-concept evidence that codon preferences exist in tissue-specific protein synthesis and demonstrate its application to synthetic gene design. We show that CUSTOM can be of benefit in biological and biotechnological applications, such as in the design of tissue-targeted therapies and vaccines.
PXD038616	36830259	Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus Display Differential Proteomic Responses to the Silver(I) Compound, SBC3. 	The differential proteomic response of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus to the silver (1) compound, SBC3	Antimicrobial, Pseudomonas, Silver, Staphylococcus	The urgent need to combat antibiotic resistance and develop novel antimicrobial therapies has triggered studies on novel metal-based formulations. N-heterocyclic carbene (NHC) complexes coordinate transition metals to generate a broad range of anticancer and/or antimicrobial agents, with ongoing efforts being made to enhance the lipophilicity and drug stability. The lead silver(I) acetate complex, 1,3-dibenzyl-4,5-diphenylimidazol-2-ylidene (NHC*) (SBC3), has previously demonstrated promising growth and biofilm-inhibiting properties. In this work, the responses of two structurally different bacteria to SBC3 using label-free quantitative proteomics were characterised. Multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Gram-negative) and Staphylococcus aureus (Gram-positive) are associated with cystic fibrosis lung colonisation and chronic wound infections, respectively. SBC3 increased the abundance of alginate biosynthesis, the secretion system and drug detoxification proteins in P. aeruginosa, whilst a variety of pathways, including anaerobic respiration, twitching motility and ABC transport, were decreased in abundance. This contrasted the affected pathways in S. aureus, where increased DNA replication/repair and cell redox homeostasis and decreased protein synthesis, lipoylation and glucose metabolism were observed. Increased abundance of cell wall/membrane proteins was indicative of the structural damage induced by SBC3 in both bacteria. These findings show the potential broad applications of SBC3 in treating Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria.
PXD039430	36830584	An Isobaric Labeling Approach to Enhance Detection and Quantification of Tissue-Derived Plasma Proteins as Potential Early Disease Biomarkers. 	An isobaric labeling approach to enhance detection and quan-tification of tissue-derived plasma proteins as potential early disease biomarkers	kidney, plasma, tmt	The proteomic analysis of plasma holds great promise to advance precision medicine and identify biomarkers of disease. However, it is likely that many potential biomarkers circulating in plasma originate from other tissues and are only present in low abundances in the plasma. Accurate detection and quantification of low abundance proteins by standard mass spectrometry approaches remain challenging. In addition, it is difficult to link low abundance plasma proteins back to their specific tissues or organs of origin with confidence. To address these challenges, we developed a mass spectrometry approach based on the use of tandem mass tags (TMT) and a tissue reference sample. By applying this approach to nonhuman primate plasma samples, we were able to identify and quantify 820 proteins by using a kidney tissue homogenate as reference. On average, 643 +/- 16 proteins were identified per plasma sample. About 58% of proteins identified in replicate experiments were identified both times. A ratio of 50 mug kidney protein to 10 mug plasma protein, and the use of the TMT label with the highest molecular weight (131) for the kidney reference yielded the largest number of proteins in the analysis, and identified low abundance proteins in plasma that are prominently found in the kidney. Overall, this methodology promises efficient quantification of plasma proteins potentially released from specific tissues, thereby increasing the number of putative disease biomarkers for future study.
PXD038736	36831001	Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Allocryptopine via the Target on the CX3CL1-CX3CR1 axis/GNB5/AKT/NF-kappaB/Apoptosis in Dextran Sulfate-Induced Mice. 	Allocryptopine alleviates IBD through modulating gut microbiota and inhibiting Cx3cl1-Cx3cr1 axis/NF-B/apoptosis in DSS-induced mice	Allocryptopine, Cx3cl1-Cx3cr1 axis, apoptosis, central nervous system, chemokine signaling pathway, gut microbiota, inflammatory bowel disease	Allocryptopine (ALL) is an isoquinoline alkaloid extracted from Macleaya cordata(Willd). R. Br., which has been claimed to have anti-inflammatory and neuroprotection properties. However, the mechanism by which ALL ameliorates inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remains unclear. Here, we used network pharmacology and quantitative proteomic approaches to investigate the effect of ALL on IBD pathogenesis. Network pharmacology predicted potential targets and signaling pathways of ALL's anti-IBD effects. As predicted by network pharmacology, gene ontology (GO) analysis, in terms of the proteomic results, showed that the immune response in mucosa and antimicrobial humoral response were enriched. Further study revealed that the ALL-related pathways were the chemokine signaling pathway and apoptosis in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). In addition, we identified AKT1 as a hub for the critical pathways through protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. Similar to mesalazine (MES), Western blot verified that ALL downregulated upstream chemokine CX3CL1 and GNB5 content to reduce phosphorylation of AKT and NF-kappaB, as well as the degree of apoptosis, to improve inflammatory response in the colon. Our research may shed light on the mechanism by which ALL inhibits the CX3CL1/GNB5/AKT2/NF-kappaB/apoptosis pathway and improves the intestinal barrier to reduce colitis response and act on the CX3CL1-CX3CR1 axis to achieve neuroprotection.
PXD036335	36831023	A Proteome-Wide Effect of PHF8 Knockdown on Cortical Neurons Shows Downregulation of Parkinson's Disease-Associated Protein Alpha-Synuclein and Its Interactors. 	A proteome-wide effect of PHF8 knockdown in neuronal activity-dependent synaptic plasticity shows downregulation of Parkinson's disease-associated protein Alpha-synuclein and its interactors	Neurodegeneracy, Parkinsons disease, neurodegeneration, synaptic plasticity	Synaptic dysfunction may underlie the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD), a presently incurable condition characterized by motor and cognitive symptoms. Here, we used quantitative proteomics to study the role of PHD Finger Protein 8 (PHF8), a histone demethylating enzyme found to be mutated in X-linked intellectual disability and identified as a genetic marker of PD, in regulating the expression of PD-related synaptic plasticity proteins. Amongst the list of proteins found to be affected by PHF8 knockdown were Parkinson's-disease-associated SNCA (alpha synuclein) and PD-linked genes DNAJC6 (auxilin), SYNJ1 (synaptojanin 1), and the PD risk gene SH3GL2 (endophilin A1). Findings in this study show that depletion of PHF8 in cortical neurons affects the activity-induced expression of proteins involved in synaptic plasticity, synaptic structure, vesicular release and membrane trafficking, spanning the spectrum of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic transmission. Given that the depletion of even a single chromatin-modifying enzyme can affect synaptic protein expression in such a concerted manner, more in-depth studies will be needed to show whether such a mechanism can be exploited as a potential disease-modifying therapeutic drug target in PD.
PXD025484	36831393	A Novel Blood Proteomic Signature for Prostate Cancer. 	Peripheral blood proteomic signature of newly diagnosed prostate cancer	Prostate cancer, SWATH-MS, biomarkers, clinical onset	Prostate cancer is the most common malignant tumour in men. Improved testing for diagnosis, risk prediction, and response to treatment would improve care. Here, we identified a proteomic signature of prostate cancer in peripheral blood using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry combined with machine learning. A highly predictive signature was derived, which was associated with relevant pathways, including the coagulation, complement, and clotting cascades, as well as plasma lipoprotein particle remodeling. We further validated the identified biomarkers against a second cohort, identifying a panel of five key markers (GP5, SERPINA5, ECM1, IGHG1, and THBS1) which retained most of the diagnostic power of the overall dataset, achieving an AUC of 0.91. Taken together, this study provides a proteomic signature complementary to PSA for the diagnosis of patients with localised prostate cancer, with the further potential for assessing risk of future development of prostate cancer. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD025484.
PXD038446	36833290	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Glycolytic and Oxidative Muscle in Pigs. 	Comparative analysis of proteomics between glycolytic and oxidative muscles in pigs	differentially expressed proteins, glycolytic muscle, meat quality, oxidative muscle, pig	The quality of meat is highly correlated with muscle fiber type. However, the mechanisms via which proteins regulate muscle fiber types in pigs are not entirely understood. In the current study, we have performed proteomic profiling of fast/glycolytic biceps femoris (BF) and slow/oxidative soleus (SOL) muscles and identified several candidate differential proteins among these. We performed proteomic analyses based on tandem mass tags (TMTs) and identified a total of 26,228 peptides corresponding to 2667 proteins among the BF and SOL muscle samples. Among these, we found 204 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between BF and SOL muscle, with 56 up-regulated and 148 down-regulated DEPs in SOL muscle samples. KEGG and GO enrichment analyses of the DEPs revealed that the DEPs are involved in some GO terms (e.g., actin cytoskeleton, myosin complex, and cytoskeletal parts) and signaling pathways (PI3K-Akt and NF-kappa B signaling pathways) that influence muscle fiber type. A regulatory network of protein-protein interaction (PPI) between these DEPs that regulates muscle fiber types was constructed, which demonstrates how three down-regulated DEPs, including PFKM, GAPDH, and PKM, interact with other proteins to potentially control the glycolytic process. This study offers a new understanding of the molecular mechanisms in glycolytic and oxidative muscles as well as a novel approach for enhancing meat quality by transforming the type of muscle fibers in pigs.
PXD026286	36833319	Proteomic and Transcriptomic Responses of the Desiccation-Tolerant Moss Racomitrium canescens in the Rapid Rehydration Processes. 	A Proteomic Analysis of Desiccation Tolerance in Racomitrium canescens	Racomitrium canescens, desiccation-tolerance bryophyte, rehydration	The moss Racomitrium canescens (R. canescens) has strong desiccation tolerance. It can remain desiccated for years and yet recover within minutes of rehydration. Understanding the responses and mechanisms underlying this rapid rehydration capacity in bryophytes could identify candidate genes that improve crop drought tolerance. We explored these responses using physiology, proteomics, and transcriptomics. Label-free quantitative proteomics comparing desiccated plants and samples rehydrated for 1 min or 6 h suggesting that damage to chromatin and the cytoskeleton had occurred during desiccation, and pointing to the large-scale degradation of proteins, the production of mannose and xylose, and the degradation of trehalose immediately after rehydration. The assembly and quantification of transcriptomes from R. canescens across different stages of rehydration established that desiccation was physiologically stressful for the plants; however, the plants recovered rapidly once rehydrated. According to the transcriptomics data, vacuoles appear to play a crucial role in the early stages of R. canescens recovery. Mitochondria and cell reproduction might recover before photosynthesis; most biological functions potentially restarted after ~6 h. Furthermore, we identified novel genes and proteins related to desiccation tolerance in bryophytes. Overall, this study provides new strategies for analyzing desiccation-tolerant bryophytes and identifying candidate genes for improving plant drought tolerance.
PXD038805	36834610	Neonatal Plasma Exosomes Contribute to Endothelial Cell-Mediated Angiogenesis and Cardiac Repair after Acute Myocardial Infarction. 	Exosomal proteins identification from neonatal mouse plasma	Neonatal mouse, Plasma-derived exosome	Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) accompanied by cardiac remodeling still lacks effective treatment to date. Accumulated evidences suggest that exosomes from various sources play a cardioprotective and regenerative role in heart repair, but their effects and mechanisms remain intricate. Here, we found that intramyocardial delivery of plasma exosomes from neonatal mice (npEXO) could help to repair the adult heart in structure and function after AMI. In-depth proteome and single-cell transcriptome analyses suggested that npEXO ligands were majorly received by cardiac endothelial cells (ECs), and npEXO-mediated angiogenesis might serve as a pivotal reason to ameliorate the infarcted adult heart. We then innovatively constructed systematical communication networks among exosomal ligands and cardiac ECs and the final 48 ligand-receptor pairs contained 28 npEXO ligands (including the angiogenic factors, Clu and Hspg2), which mainly mediated the pro-angiogenic effect of npEXO by recognizing five cardiac EC receptors (Kdr, Scarb1, Cd36, etc.). Together, the proposed ligand-receptor network in our study might provide inspiration for rebuilding the vascular network and cardiac regeneration post-MI.
PXD039495	36834727	Multi-Omics Approaches for Revealing the Epigenetic Regulation of Histone H3.1 during Spermatogonial Stem Cell Differentiation In Vitro. 	Dynamic landscape of histone H3 modifications during SSC differentiation by PRM	PRM, SSC, quantification,histone H3 modifications	Epigenetic regulation, particularly post-translational modifications (PTMs) of histones, participates in spermatogonial stem cell (SSCs) differentiation. However, there is a lack of systemic studies of histone PTM regulation during the differentiation of SSCs due to its low number in vivo. Herein, we quantified dynamic changes of 46 different PTMs on histone H3.1 by targeted quantitative proteomics using mass spectrometry during SSCs differentiation in vitro, in combination with our RNA-seq data. We identified seven histone H3.1 modifications to be differentially regulated. In addition, we selected H3K9me2 and H3S10ph for subsequent biotinylated peptide pull-down experiments and identified 38 H3K9me2-binding proteins and 42 H3S10ph-binding proteins, which contain several transcription factors, such as GTF2E2 and SUPT5H, which appear to be crucial for epigenetic regulation of SSC differentiation.
PXD036177	36834752	Integrative Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Analysis of the Rat Adenohypophysis after GnRH Treatment. 	Integrative proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis of the rat adenohypophysis after GnRH treatment	GnRH, phosphoproteomics, pituitary, rats	The regulation of mammalian reproductive activity is tightly dependent on the HPG axis crosstalk, in which several reproductive hormones play important roles. Among them, the physiological functions of gonadotropins are gradually being uncovered. However, the mechanisms by which GnRH regulates FSH synthesis and secretion still need to be more extensively and deeply explored. With the gradual completion of the human genome project, proteomes have become extremely important in the fields of human disease and biological process research. To explore the changes of protein and protein phosphorylation modifications in the adenohypophysis after GnRH stimulation, proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses of rat adenohypophysis after GnRH treatment were performed by using TMT markers, HPLC classification, LC/MS, and bioinformatics analysis in this study. A total of 6762 proteins and 15,379 phosphorylation sites contained quantitative information. Twenty-eight upregulated proteins and fifty-three downregulated proteins were obtained in the rat adenohypophysis after GnRH treatment. The 323 upregulated phosphorylation sites and 677 downregulated phosphorylation sites found in the phosphoproteomics implied that a large number of phosphorylation modifications were regulated by GnRH and were involved in FSH synthesis and secretion. These data constitute a protein-protein phosphorylation map in the regulatory mechanism of "GnRH-FSH," which provides a basis for future studies on the complex molecular mechanisms of FSH synthesis and secretion. The results will be helpful for understanding the role of GnRH in the development and reproduction regulated by the pituitary proteome in mammals.
PXD038159	36834894	Exploration of the Core Pathways and Potential Targets of Luteolin Treatment on Late-Onset Depression Based on Cerebrospinal Fluid Proteomics. 	Cerebrospinal Fluid Proteomics of Aging Rats with Depression	Ephrin, Ephs, GSEA, Netrin, Semaphorin, UNC5, aging, axon guidance, cerebrospinal fluid, late-onset depression, luteolin	Cognitive deficiency is one of the fundamental characteristics of late-onset depression (LOD). Luteolin (LUT) possesses antidepressant, anti-aging, and neuroprotective properties, which can dramatically enhance cognition. The altered composition of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which is involved in neuronal plasticity and neurogenesis, directly reflects the physio-pathological status of the central nervous system. It is not well known whether the effect of LUT on LOD is in association with a changed CSF composition. Therefore, this study first established a rat model of LOD and then tested the therapeutic effects of LUT using several behavioral approaches. A gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was used to evaluate the CSF proteomics data for KEGG pathway enrichment and Gene Ontology annotation. We combined network pharmacology and differentially expressed proteins to screen for key GSEA-KEGG pathways as well as potential targets for LUT therapy for LOD. Molecular docking was adopted to verify the affinity and binding activity of LUT to these potential targets. The outcomes demonstrated that LUT improved the cognitive and depression-like behaviors in LOD rats. LUT may exert therapeutic effects on LOD through the axon guidance pathway. Five axon guidance molecules-EFNA5, EPHB4, EPHA4, SEMA7A, and NTNG-as well as UNC5B, L1CAM, and DCC, may be candidates for the LUT treatment of LOD.
PXD038524	36835103	Proteomic Analysis Reveals a Critical Role of the Glycosyl Hydrolase 17 Protein in Panax ginseng Leaves under Salt Stress. 	Proteomic analysis of Panax ginseng leaves subjected to salinity stress	Panax ginseng, glycosyl hydrolase 17, salt stress, shotgun proteomics, transgenic	Ginseng, an important crop in East Asia, exhibits multiple medicinal and nutritional benefits because of the presence of ginsenosides. On the other hand, the ginseng yield is severely affected by abiotic stressors, particularly salinity, which reduces yield and quality. Therefore, efforts are needed to improve the ginseng yield during salinity stress, but salinity stress-induced changes in ginseng are poorly understood, particularly at the proteome-wide level. In this study, we report the comparative proteome profiles of ginseng leaves at four different time points (mock, 24, 72, and 96 h) using a label-free quantitative proteome approach. Of the 2484 proteins identified, 468 were salt-responsive. In particular, glycosyl hydrolase 17 (PgGH17), catalase-peroxidase 2, voltage-gated potassium channel subunit beta-2, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase class 1, and chlorophyll a-b binding protein accumulated in ginseng leaves in response to salt stress. The heterologous expression of PgGH17 in Arabidopsis thaliana improved the salt tolerance of transgenic lines without compromising plant growth. Overall, this study uncovers the salt-induced changes in ginseng leaves at the proteome level and highlights the critical role of PgGH17 in salt stress tolerance in ginseng.
PXD030928	36835328	BRM Complex in Arabidopsis Adopts ncBAF-like Composition and Requires BRD Subunits for Assembly and Stability. 	BRAHMA-containing chromatin remodelling complex prevailing in Arabidopsis vegetative organs is a homolog of mammalian non-canonical  SWI/SNF complexes and requires BRD subunits for assembly and stability	BRAHMA, BRD, BRM, SWI/SNF	ATP-dependent SWI/SNF chromatin remodelling complexes are conserved multi-subunit assemblies that control genome activity. Functions of SWI/SNF complexes in plant development and growth have been well established, but the architecture of particular assemblies is unclear. In this study, we elucidate the organization of Arabidopsis SWI/SNF complexes formed around a BRM catalytic subunit, and define the requirement of bromodomain-containing proteins BRD1/2/13 for the formation and stability of the entire complex. Using affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry, we identify a set of BRM-associated subunits and demonstrate that the BRM complexes strongly resemble mammalian non-canonical BAF complexes. Furthermore, we identify BDH1 and 2 proteins as components of the BRM complex and, using mutant analyses, show that BDH1/2 are important for vegetative and generative development, as well as hormonal responses. We further show that BRD1/2/13 represent unique subunits of the BRM complexes, and their depletion severely affects the integrity of the complex, resulting in the formation of residual assemblies. Finally, analyses of BRM complexes after proteasome inhibition revealed the existence of a module consisting of the ATPase, ARP, and BDH proteins, assembled with other subunits in a BRD-dependent manner. Together, our results suggest modular organization of plant SWI/SNF complexes and provide a biochemical explanation for mutant phenotypes.
PXD038553	36835443	Comparative Proteomics Analysis of Exosomes Identifies Key Pathways and Protein Markers Related to Breast Cancer Metastasis. 	Comparative Proteomics Analysis of Exosomes Identifies Key Pathways and Protein Markers Related to Breast Cancer Me-tastasis	Breast cancer, Exosomes, IonStar, Label-free quantification, Metastasis, Quantitative proteomics	Proteomics analysis of circulating exosomes derived from cancer cells represents a promising approach to the elucidation of cell-cell communication and the discovery of putative biomarker candidates for cancer diagnosis and treatment. Nonetheless, the proteome of exosomes derived from cell lines with different metastatic capabilities still warrants further investigation. Here, we present a comprehensive quantitative proteomics investigation of exosomes isolated from immortalized mammary epithelial cells and matched tumor lines with different metastatic potentials in an attempt to discover exosome markers specific to breast cancer (BC) metastasis. A total of 2135 unique proteins were quantified with a high confidence level from 20 isolated exosome samples, including 94 of the TOP 100 exosome markers archived by ExoCarta. Moreover, 348 altered proteins were observed, among which several metastasis-specific markers, including cathepsin W (CATW), magnesium transporter MRS2 (MRS2), syntenin-2 (SDCB2), reticulon-4 (RTN), and UV excision repair protein RAD23 homolog (RAD23B), were also identified. Notably, the abundance of these metastasis-specific markers corresponds well with the overall survival of BC patients in clinical settings. Together, these data provide a valuable dataset for BC exosome proteomics investigation and prominently facilitate the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying primary tumor development and progression.
PXD039879	36835555	The APC/C Activator Cdh1p Plays a Role in Mitochondrial Metabolic Remodelling in Yeast. 	The APC/C activator Cdh1p plays a role in mitochondrial metabolic remodelling in yeast	Cdh1p, Yap1p, mitochondria	Cdh1p is one of the two substrate adaptor proteins of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a ubiquitin ligase that regulates proteolysis during cell cycle. In this work, using a proteomic approach, we found 135 mitochondrial proteins whose abundance was significantly altered in the cdh1Delta mutant, with 43 up-regulated proteins and 92 down-regulated proteins. The group of significantly up-regulated proteins included subunits of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, enzymes from the tricarboxylic acid cycle and regulators of mitochondrial organization, suggesting a metabolic remodelling towards an increase in mitochondrial respiration. In accordance, mitochondrial oxygen consumption and Cytochrome c oxidase activity increased in Cdh1p-deficient cells. These effects seem to be mediated by the transcriptional activator Yap1p, a major regulator of the yeast oxidative stress response. YAP1 deletion suppressed the increased Cyc1p levels and mitochondrial respiration in cdh1Delta cells. In agreement, Yap1p is transcriptionally more active in cdh1Delta cells and responsible for the higher oxidative stress tolerance of cdh1Delta mutant cells. Overall, our results unveil a new role for APC/C-Cdh1p in the regulation of the mitochondrial metabolic remodelling through Yap1p activity.
PXD039992	36835581	OMICS Analyses Unraveling Related Gene and Protein-Driven Molecular Mechanisms Underlying PACAP 38-Induced Neurite Outgrowth in PC12 Cells. 	OMICS Analyses Unraveling Related Gene and Protein Driven Molecular Mechanisms Underlying PACAP 38 Induced Neurite Outgrowth in PC12 Cells	Neurite, PC12, Rat, TMT	The study aimed to understand mechanism/s of neuronal outgrowth in the rat adrenal-derived pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12) under pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) treatment. Neurite projection elongation was suggested to be mediated via Pac1 receptor-mediated dephosphorylation of CRMP2, where GSK-3beta, CDK5, and Rho/ROCK dephosphorylated CRMP2 within 3 h after addition of PACAP, but the dephosphorylation of CRMP2 by PACAP remained unclear. Thus, we attempted to identify the early factors in PACAP-induced neurite projection elongation via omics-based transcriptomic (whole genome DNA microarray) and proteomic (TMT-labeled liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry) analyses of gene and protein expression profiles from 5-120 min after PACAP addition. The results revealed a number of key regulators involved in neurite outgrowth, including known ones, called 'Initial Early Factors', e.g., genes Inhba, Fst, Nr4a1,2,3, FAT4, Axin2, and proteins Mis12, Cdk13, Bcl91, CDC42, including categories of 'serotonergic synapse, neuropeptide and neurogenesis, and axon guidance'. cAMP signaling and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways and a calcium signaling pathway might be involved in CRMP2 dephosphorylation. Cross-referencing previous research, we tried to map these molecular components onto potential pathways, and we may provide important new information on molecular mechanisms of neuronal differentiation induced by PACAP. Gene and protein expression data are publicly available at NCBI GSE223333 and ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD039992.
PXD038931	36835702	Proteome Analysis of Male Accessory Gland Secretions in the Diamondback Moth, Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae). 	Proteome analysis of male accessory gland secretions in the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae)	Plutella xylostella, accessory gland proteins, male accessory gland, seminal fluid proteins	In insects, male accessory gland proteins (ACPs) are important reproductive proteins secreted by male accessory glands (MAGs) of the internal male reproductive system. During mating, ACPs are transferred along with sperms inside female bodies and have a significant impact on the post-mating physiology changes of the females. Under sexual selection pressures, the ACPs exhibit remarkably rapid and divergent evolution and vary from species to species. The diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (L.) (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae), is a major insect pest of cruciferous vegetables worldwide. Mating has a profound impact on the females' behavior and physiology in this species. It is still unclear what the ACPs are in this species. In this study, two different proteomic methods were used to identify ACPs in P. xylostella. The proteins of MAGs were compared immediately before and after mating by using a tandem mass tags (TMT) quantitative proteomic analysis. The proteomes of copulatory bursas (CB) in mated females shortly after mating were also analyzed by the shotgun LC-MS/MS technique. In total, we identified 123 putative secreted ACPs. Comparing P. xylostella with other four insect ACPs, trypsins were the only ACPs detected in all insect species. We also identified some new insect ACPs, including proteins with chitin binding Peritrophin-A domain, PMP-22/ EMP/ MP20/ Claudin tight junction domain-containing protein, netrin-1, type II inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 5-phosphatase, two spaetzles, allatostatin-CC, and cuticular protein. This is the first time that ACPs have been identified and analyzed in P. xylostella. Our results have provided an important list of putative secreted ACPs, and have set the stage for further exploration of the functions of these putative proteins in P. xylostella reproduction.
PXD037691	36835806	Investigation of the Pathogenic Mechanism of Ciprofloxacin in Aortic Aneurysm and Dissection by an Integrated Proteomics and Network Pharmacology Strategy. 	The pathogenic mechanism of ciprofloxacin in aortic aneurysm	aortic aneurysm, ciprofloxacin	Aortic aneurysm and dissection (AAD) is a life-threatening disease worldwide. Recently, fluoroquinolones have been reported to significantly increase the risk of AAD. This study aimed to investigate the potential functional mechanism and molecular targets of fluoroquinolones in relation to AAD by an integrated proteomic and network pharmacology strategy. A total of 1351 differentially expressed proteins were identified in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) after ciprofloxacin (CIP) stimulation. The functional analysis emphasized the important roles of metabolism, extracellular matrix homeostasis, mitochondrial damage, focal adhesion, and apoptosis in CIP-stimulated VSMCs. CIP targets were predicted with online databases and verified by molecular docking. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis and module construction of the 34 potential CIP targets and 37 selected hub molecules after CIP stimulation identified four critical target proteins in the module: PARP1, RAC1, IGF1R and MKI67. Functional analysis of the PPI module showed that the MAPK signalling pathway, focal adhesion, apoptosis, regulation of actin cytoskeleton, and PI3K-Akt signalling pathway were significantly enriched. Our results will provide novel insights into the pathogenic mechanism of fluoroquinolones in aortic diseases.
PXD037833	36836336	Exposure of Aspergillus fumigatus to Klebsiella pneumoniae Culture Filtrate Inhibits Growth and Stimulates Gliotoxin Production. 	Exposure of Aspergillus fumigatus to Klebsiella pneumoniae culture filtrate inhibits  growth and stimulates gliotoxin production.	Aspergillus, gliotoxin, klebsiella, polymicrobial interaction	Aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic fungal pathogen capable of inducing chronic and acute infection in susceptible patients. A. fumigatus interacts with numerous bacteria that compose the microbiota of the lung, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumoniae, both of which are common isolates from cystic fibrosis sputum. Exposure of A. fumigatus to K. pneumoniae culture filtrate reduced fungal growth and increased gliotoxin production. Qualitative proteomic analysis of the K. pneumoniae culture filtrate identified proteins associated with metal sequestering, enzymatic degradation and redox activity, which may impact fungal growth and development. Quantitative proteomic analysis of A. fumigatus following exposure to K. pneumoniae culture filtrate (25% v/v) for 24 h revealed a reduced abundance of 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase (-3.97 fold), methyl sterol monooxygenase erg25B (-2.9 fold) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (-4.2 fold) involved in fungal development, and increased abundance of glutathione S-transferase GliG (+6.17 fold), non-ribosomal peptide synthase GliP (+3.67 fold), O-methyltransferase GliM (+3.5 fold), gamma-glutamyl acyltransferase GliK (+2.89 fold) and thioredoxin reductase GliT (+2.33 fold) involved in gliotoxin production. These results reveal that exposure of A. fumigatus to K. pneumoniae in vivo could exacerbate infection and negatively impact patient prognosis.
PXD039605	36837811	Hypolipidemic Effects of Beetroot Juice in SHR-CRP and HHTg Rat Models of Metabolic Syndrome: Analysis of Hepatic Proteome. 	Hypolipidemic effects of beetroot juice in SHR-CRP and HHTg rat models of metabolic syndrome: Analysis of hepatic proteome.	beetroot, glycerophospholipid metabolism, hereditary hypertriglyceridemic rat, lipids, mTOR signaling, spontaneously hypertensive rat	Recently, red beetroot has attracted attention as a health-promoting functional food. Studies have shown that beetroot administration can reduce blood pressure and ameliorate parameters of glucose and lipid metabolism; however, mechanisms underlying these beneficial effects of beetroot are not yet fully understood. In the current study, we analysed the effects of beetroot on parameters of glucose and lipid metabolism in two models of metabolic syndrome: (i) transgenic spontaneously hypertensive rats expressing human C-reactive protein (SHR-CRP rats), and (ii) hereditary hypertriglyceridemic (HHTg) rats. Treatment with beetroot juice for 4 weeks was, in both models, associated with amelioration of oxidative stress, reduced circulating lipids, smaller visceral fat depots, and lower ectopic fat accumulation in the liver compared to the respective untreated controls. On the other hand, beetroot treatment had no significant effects on the sensitivity of the muscle and adipose tissue to insulin action in either model. Analyses of hepatic proteome revealed significantly deregulated proteins involved in glycerophospholipid metabolism, mTOR signalling, inflammation, and cytoskeleton rearrangement.
PXD030851	36838332	Comprehensive Genomics and Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Multiple Response Strategies of Endophytic Bacillus sp. WR13 to Iron Limitation. 	The Proteome analysis of Bacillus WR10 under iron deficiency	Bacillus, iron deficiency	Iron (Fe) is an important metal element for the growth of bacteria. Many bacteria respond to Fe limitation through a variety of strategies. We previously isolated an endophyte Bacillus sp. WR13 from wheat root. However, whether and how this strain can cope with Fe-deficient environments remains unclear. In this study, the growth of WR13 under Fe starvation was investigated, and the underlying mechanisms of WR13 in response to Fe starvation were elucidated via genomics and iTRAQ-based proteomics. Under Fe limitation, WR13 showed a growth pattern similar to that of Fe sufficiency. Genomics analysis demonstrated that WR13 had gene clusters related to siderophore synthesis (dhbACEBF), transportation (bcbE), uptake (feuABC-yusV) and hydrolysis (besA). These genes were significantly up-regulated in Fe-starved WR13, which resulted in more siderophore production. Proteomics data revealed that many Fe-containing proteins such as ACO, HemQ, ferredoxin, CNP, and SufD were significantly reduced under Fe limitation. Meanwhile, significant decreases in many proteins involved in glycolysis, TCA cycle, pentose phosphate pathway; asparagine, glutamine, methionine, and serine metabolism; and phospholipid hydrolysis were also observed. Overall, this study shows that Bacillus sp. WR13 was able to respond to Fe limitation via multiple strategies and provides a theoretical basis for the application of WR13 in Fe-deficient soil.
PXD039218	36838553	Examining the Effect of Notocactus ottonis Cold Vacuum Isolated Plant Cell Extract on Hair Growth in C57BL/6 Mice Using a Combination of Physiological and OMICS Analyses. 	Examining the Effect of Notocactus ottonis Cold Vacuum Isolated Cell Extract on Hair Growth	Notocactus ottonis, animal model, cactus, cold vacuum extraction, hair growth	The biological and psychological importance of hair is recognized worldwide. Molecules that can promote the activation of hair follicle stem cells and the initiation of the growth phase have been subjects of research. Clarifying how hair regeneration is regulated may help to provide hair loss treatments, including cosmetic and even psychological interventions. We examined the hair-growing effects of a cell extract (CE) obtained from cactus Notocactus ottonis by the cold vacuum extraction protocol, by investigating its hair-growing effects, relevant mechanisms, and potential factors therein. Using male C57BL/6 mice, vehicle control (VC: propylene glycol: ethanol: water), MXD (minoxidil, positive control), and N. ottonis CE (N-CE, experimental) were applied topically to the backs of mice. The results showed that MXD and N-CE were more effective in promoting hair growth than VC. An increase in number of hair follicles was observed with N-CE in hematoxylin-eosin-stained skin tissue. The metabolite composition of N-CE revealed the presence of growth-promoting factors. Using mouse back whole-skin tissue samples, whole-genome DNA microarray (4 x 44 K, Agilent) and proteomics (TMT-based liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry) analyses were carried out, suggesting the molecular factors underlying hair-promoting effects of N-CE. This study raises the possibility of using the newly described N. ottonis CE as a hair-growth-promoting agent.
PXD039758	36838681	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Tibetan Pig Livers at Different Altitudes. 	Quantitative proteomic study of total protein TMT labeling in 18 pig liver samples	Tibetan pig, liver	In this study, the differences in protein profiles between the livers of Shannan Tibetan pigs (SNT), Linzhi Tibetan pigs (LZT) and Jiuzhaigou Tibetan pigs (JZT) were comparatively analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry-labeling quantitative proteomics. A total of 6804 proteins were identified: 6471 were quantified and 1095 were screened as differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Bioinformatics analysis results show that, compared with JZT livers, up-regulated DEPs in SNT and LZT livers mainly promoted hepatic detoxification through steroid hormone biosynthesis and participated in lipid metabolism to maintain body energy homeostasis, immune response and immune regulation, while down-regulated DEPs were mainly involved in lipid metabolism and immune regulation. Three proteases closely related to hepatic fatty acid oxidation were down-regulated in enzymatic activity, indicating higher levels of lipid oxidation in SNT and LZT livers than in JZT livers. Down-regulation of the expression of ten immunoglobulins suggests that JZT are more susceptible to autoimmune diseases. It is highly likely that these differences in lipid metabolism and immune-related proteins are in response to the ecological environment at different altitudes, and the findings contribute to the understanding of the potential molecular link between Tibetan pig livers and the environment.
PXD032759	36839217	Exploring the Anti-Inflammatory Effect of Inulin by Integrating Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analyses in a Murine Macrophage Cell Model. 	Potential anti-inflammatory effect of inulin in an inflammatory cell model (mouse macrophages with LPS)	DIA-NN, anti-inflammatory effect, diaPASEF, inulin, library-free	Inulin is a natural polysaccharide classified as a soluble fiber with demonstrated prebiotic activity. Prebiotics can reduce intestinal and systemic inflammation through modulation of the gut microflora and their metabolites. Additionally, extensive research is illuminating the role of macrophages in the interaction between gut microbiota and many systemic inflammatory diseases. In this study, the anti-inflammatory properties of inulin were evaluated using a murine macrophage cell model (RAW 264.7) of inflammation, and the immunomodulatory mechanism was investigated using omics technologies. The cells underwent comprehensive transcriptomic and proteomic analyses to identify the mechanisms responsible for the observed anti-inflammatory phenotype. Functional analyses of these omics results revealed two potential mechanisms that may lead to an overall reduction in cytokine and chemokine transcription: the inhibition of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway, leading to the downregulation of proinflammatory factors such as COX2, and the promotion of the phase II defense protein Hmox1 via the Nrf2 pathway. This study provides promising targets for research on immune modulation by dietary fibers and offers new strategies for the design of functional ingredients, foods, and nutraceutical products, which could ultimately lead to personalized nutrition and improved consumer health.
PXD019965	36839621	The Anti-Listeria Activity of Pseudomonas fluorescens Isolated from the Horticultural Environment in New Zealand. 	In-vitro evaluation of Pseudomonas fluorescens antibacterial activity against Listeria spp. isolated from New Zealand horticultural environments	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Pseudomonas fluorescens, antibacterial activity, horticulture	Beneficial bacteria with antibacterial properties are attractive alternatives to chemical-based antibacterial or bactericidal agents. Our study sourced such bacteria from horticultural produce and environments to explore the mechanisms of their antimicrobial properties. Five strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens were studied that possessed antibacterial activity against the pathogen Listeria monocytogenes. The vegetative culture of these strains (Pseudomonas fluorescens-PFR46I06, Pseudomonas fluorescens-PFR46H06, Pseudomonas fluorescens-PFR46H07, Pseudomonas fluorescens-PFR46H08 and Pseudomonas fluorescens-PFR46H09) were tested against Listeria monocytogenes (n = 31), Listeria seeligeri (n = 1) and Listeria innocua (n = 1) isolated from seafood and horticultural sources and from clinical cases (n = 2) using solid media coculture and liquid media coculture. All Listeria strains were inhibited by all strains of P. fluorescens; however, P. fluorescens-PFR46H07, P. fluorescens-PFR46H08 and P. fluorescens-PFR46H09 on solid media showed good inhibition, with average zones of inhibition of 14.8 mm, 15.1 mm and 18.2 mm, respectively, and the other two strains and P. fluorescens-PFR46H09 had a significantly greater zone of inhibition than the others (p < 0.05). There was no inhibition observed in liquid media coculture or in P. fluorescens culture supernatants against Listeria spp. by any of the P. fluorescens strains. Therefore, we hypothesized that the structural apparatus that causes cell-to-cell contact may play a role in the ejection of ant-listeria molecules on solid media to inhibit Listeria isolates, and we investigated the structural protein differences using whole-cell lysate proteomics. We paid special attention to the type VI secretion system (TSS-T6SS) for the transfer of effector proteins or bacteriocins. We found significant differences in the peptide profiles and protein summaries between these isolates' lysates, and PFR46H06 and PFR46H07 possessed the fewest secretion system structural proteins (12 and 11, respectively), while PFR46H08 and PFR46H09 had 18 each. P. fluorescens-PFR46H09, which showed the highest antimicrobial effect, had nine tss-T6SS structural proteins compared to only four in the other three strains.
PXD036273	36840716	Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae encodes multiple phase-variable DNA methyltransferases that control distinct phasevarions. 	SWATH-MS proteome of Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae showing differential protein expression due to the ModP and ModQ phasevarions	Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae, bacteria, epigenetics, methyltransferase, phasevarions	Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae is the cause of porcine pleuropneumonia, a severe respiratory tract infection that is responsible for major economic losses to the swine industry. Many host-adapted bacterial pathogens encode systems known as phasevarions (phase-variable regulons). Phasevarions result from variable expression of cytoplasmic DNA methyltransferases. Variable expression results in genome-wide methylation differences within a bacterial population, leading to altered expression of multiple genes via epigenetic mechanisms. Our examination of a diverse population of A. pleuropneumoniae strains determined that Type I and Type III DNA methyltransferases with the hallmarks of phase variation were present in this species. We demonstrate that phase variation is occurring in these methyltransferases, and show associations between particular Type III methyltransferase alleles and serovar. Using Pacific BioSciences Single-Molecule, Real-Time (SMRT) sequencing and Oxford Nanopore sequencing, we demonstrate the presence of the first ever characterised phase-variable, cytosine-specific Type III DNA methyltransferase. Phase variation of distinct Type III DNA methyltransferase in A. pleuropneumoniae results in the regulation of distinct phasevarions, and in multiple phenotypic differences relevant to pathobiology. Our characterisation of these newly described phasevarions in A. pleuropneumoniae will aid in the selection of stably expressed antigens, and direct and inform development of a rationally designed subunit vaccine against this major veterinary pathogen.
PXD039027	36841242	NRF2 activation induces NADH-reductive stress, providing a metabolic vulnerability in lung cancer. 	Proteome wide analysis of NRF2 activation	NRF2-KEAP1 pathway, Reductive stress, non-small cell lung cancer	Multiple cancers regulate oxidative stress by activating the transcription factor NRF2 through mutation of its negative regulator, KEAP1. NRF2 has been studied extensively in KEAP1-mutant cancers; however, the role of this pathway in cancers with wild-type KEAP1 remains poorly understood. To answer this question, we induced NRF2 via pharmacological inactivation of KEAP1 in a panel of 50+ non-small cell lung cancer cell lines. Unexpectedly, marked decreases in viability were observed in >13% of the cell lines-an effect that was rescued by NRF2 ablation. Genome-wide and targeted CRISPR screens revealed that NRF2 induces NADH-reductive stress, through the upregulation of the NAD(+)-consuming enzyme ALDH3A1. Leveraging these findings, we show that cells treated with KEAP1 inhibitors or those with endogenous KEAP1 mutations are selectively vulnerable to Complex I inhibition, which impairs NADH oxidation capacity and potentiates reductive stress. Thus, we identify reductive stress as a metabolic vulnerability in NRF2-activated lung cancers.
PXD036768	36841354	Label-free proteomic analysis and functional analysis in patients with intrauterine adhesion. 	Label-Free proteomic analysis and functional analysis in patients with intrauterine adhesion	Intrauterine adhesion, Label-free Proteomics, Parallel reaction monitoring	Intrauterine adhesion (IUA) is one of the principal causes of secondary infertility in women of reproductive age, which seriously affects female reproductive function and quality of life. In recent years, the incidence of IUA has been increasing year by year, but its pathological mechanism has not yet been clarified. This study intended to reveal the pathogenesis of IUA and find new therapeutic targets by analyzing the proteomic differences between intrauterine adhesion tissues and normal human endometrial tissues. In the label-free quantitative proteomics, we identified 789 up-regulated differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and 539 down-regulated DEPs. These DEPs were further analyzed by Gene Ontology (GO) annotation and enrichment analysis, Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis to preliminarily clarify the biomarkers involved in the pathogenesis of the IUA. The DEPs were further verified by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) to confirm the results of proteomics. Finally, 7 target proteins may be candidates for treatment and elucidating the pathophysiology of IUA. SIGNIFICANCE: IUA is a fertility complication, which has increasing incidence recently. Until now, only a little research paid attention to the proteomic changes of IUA. This is the first study focused on the comparative analysis of endometrial tissue between IUA patients and normal women. We found 7 key proteins that may become the potential biomarkers of IUA.
PXD027909	36842071	Defining the Surface Oxygen Threshold That Switches the Interaction Mode of Graphene Oxide with Bacteria. 	Identification of protein corona on graphene oxide in B medium	LB medium, graphene oxide, protein corona	As antimicrobials, graphene materials (GMs) may have advantages over traditional antibiotics due to their physical mechanisms of action which ensure less chance of development of microbial resistance. However, the fundamental question as to whether the antibacterial mechanism of GMs originates from parallel interaction or perpendicular interaction, or from a combination of these, remains poorly understood. Here, we show both experimentally and theoretically that GMs with high surface oxygen content (SOC) predominantly attach in parallel to the bacterial cell surface when in the suspension phase. The interaction mode shifts to perpendicular interaction when the SOC reaches a threshold of ~0.3 (the atomic percent of O in the total atoms). Such distinct interaction modes are highly related to the rigidity of GMs. Graphene oxide (GO) with high SOC is very flexible and thus can wrap bacteria while reduced GO (rGO) with lower SOC has higher rigidity and tends to contact bacteria with their edges. Neither mode necessarily kills bacteria. Rather, bactericidal activity depends on the interaction of GMs with surrounding biomolecules. These findings suggest that variation of SOC of GMs is a key factor driving the interaction mode with bacteria, thus helping to understand the different possible physical mechanisms leading to their antibacterial activity.
PXD035723	36842083	Molecular basis for differential activation of p101 and p84 complexes of PI3Kgamma by Ras and GPCRs. 	Molecular basis for differential activation of p101 and p84 complexes of PI3Kg by Ras and GPCRs	HDX, HDX-MS, gby, p101, p110g, pi3kg, ras	Class IB phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3Kgamma) is activated in immune cells and can form two distinct complexes (p110gamma-p84 and p110gamma-p101), which are differentially activated by G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and Ras. Using a combination of X-ray crystallography, hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), electron microscopy, molecular modeling, single-molecule imaging, and activity assays, we identify molecular differences between p110gamma-p84 and p110gamma-p101 that explain their differential membrane recruitment and activation by Ras and GPCRs. The p110gamma-p84 complex is dynamic compared with p110gamma-p101. While p110gamma-p101 is robustly recruited by Gbetagamma subunits, p110gamma-p84 is weakly recruited to membranes by Gbetagamma subunits alone and requires recruitment by Ras to allow for Gbetagamma activation. We mapped two distinct Gbetagamma interfaces on p101 and the p110gamma helical domain, with differences in the C-terminal domain of p84 and p101 conferring sensitivity of p110gamma-p101 to Gbetagamma activation. Overall, our work provides key insight into the molecular basis for how PI3Kgamma complexes are activated.
PXD036669	36843114	Integrative phosphoproteomics defines two biologically distinct groups of KMT2A rearranged acute myeloid leukaemia with different drug response phenotypes. 	Phosphoproteomics of primary acute myeloid leukemia cells with rearranged KMT2A	AML, Drug Screen, Genomics, IMPDH, KMT2A, Nucleolus, Phosphoproteomics	Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) patients harbouring certain chromosome abnormalities have particularly adverse prognosis. For these patients, targeted therapies have not yet made a significant clinical impact. To understand the molecular landscape of poor prognosis AML we profiled 74 patients from two different centres (in UK and Finland) at the proteomic, phosphoproteomic and drug response phenotypic levels. These data were complemented with transcriptomics analysis for 39 cases. Data integration highlighted a phosphoproteomics signature that define two biologically distinct groups of KMT2A rearranged leukaemia, which we term MLLGA and MLLGB. MLLGA presented increased DOT1L phosphorylation, HOXA gene expression, CDK1 activity and phosphorylation of proteins involved in RNA metabolism, replication and DNA damage when compared to MLLGB and no KMT2A rearranged samples. MLLGA was particularly sensitive to 15 compounds including genotoxic drugs and inhibitors of mitotic kinases and inosine-5-monosphosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) relative to other cases. Intermediate-risk KMT2A-MLLT3 cases were mainly represented in a third group closer to MLLGA than to MLLGB. The expression of IMPDH2 and multiple nucleolar proteins was higher in MLLGA and correlated with the response to IMPDH inhibition in KMT2A rearranged leukaemia, suggesting a role of the nucleolar activity in sensitivity to treatment. In summary, our multilayer molecular profiling of AML with poor prognosis and KMT2A-MLLT3 karyotypes identified a phosphoproteomics signature that defines two biologically and phenotypically distinct groups of KMT2A rearranged leukaemia. These data provide a rationale for the potential development of specific therapies for AML patients characterised by the MLLGA phosphoproteomics signature identified in this study.
PXD035942	36844540	Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry of EPS-Urine Coupled to Machine Learning: A Predictive Model for Prostate Cancer. 	DIA analysis of EPS-urine from PCa and BPH patients	DIA, EPS-urine	Prostate cancer (PCa) is annually the most frequently diagnosed cancer in the male population. To date, the diagnostic path for PCa detection includes the dosage of serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and the digital rectal exam (DRE). However, PSA-based screening has insufficient specificity and sensitivity; besides, it cannot discriminate between the aggressive and indolent types of PCa. For this reason, the improvement of new clinical approaches and the discovery of new biomarkers are necessary. In this work, expressed prostatic secretion (EPS)-urine samples from PCa patients and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) patients were analyzed with the aim of detecting differentially expressed proteins between the two analyzed groups. To map the urinary proteome, EPS-urine samples were analyzed by data-independent acquisition (DIA), a high-sensitivity method particularly suitable for detecting proteins at low abundance. Overall, in our analysis, 2615 proteins were identified in 133 EPS-urine specimens obtaining the highest proteomic coverage for this type of sample; of these 2615 proteins, 1670 were consistently identified across the entire data set. The matrix containing the quantified proteins in each patient was integrated with clinical parameters such as the PSA level and gland size, and the complete matrix was analyzed by machine learning algorithms (by exploiting 90% of samples for training/testing using a 10-fold cross-validation approach, and 10% of samples for validation). The best predictive model was based on the following components: semaphorin-7A (sema7A), secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC), FT ratio, and prostate gland size. The classifier could predict disease conditions (BPH, PCa) correctly in 83% of samples in the validation set. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD035942.
PXD035279	36845686	Targeted O-glycoproteomics for the development of diagnostic markers for advanced colorectal cancer. 	O-glycoproteomic datasets on the serum samples from patients with colorectal cancer	Oglycopeptide, serum	Aberrant glycosylation is a prominent feature of cancer, that can be used as targets to improve the existing cancer biomarkers, and help to assess metastasis risks, and therapeutic effects. We developed a targeted O-glycoproteomics method using serum specimens, and evaluated its utility in identifying advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) markers. To this end, we combined consecutive lectin affinity purification using Maclura pomifera lectin (MPL), jacalin, and Sambucus nigra lectin, which have affinities for the following O-glycans, that have received attention as cancer-related antigens, Tn (GalNAc-Ser/Thr), Sialyl Tn (Siaalpha2-6GalNAc-Ser/Thr), T (Galbeta1-3GalNAc-Ser/Thr), Sialyl T (Siaalpha2-3Galbeta1-GalNAc-Ser/Thr), and di-Sialyl T (Siaalpha2-3Galbeta1-3[Siaalpha2-6] GalNAc-Ser/Thr), with a unique O-glycoproteomics approach. A total of 2,068 O-glycoforms derived from 265 proteins were identified in healthy individuals and patients with advanced CRC, of which 44 CRC-specific O-glycoforms were extracted. Particularly, five glycoproteins with T, Sialyl T, and di-Sialyl T antigens in specific peptide regions were evaluated quantitatively and statistically. We found that fibulin-2 (FBLN2) (aa330-349)/T antigen (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.92); macrophage colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF1) (aa370-395)/(T + di-Sialyl T) (AUC = 0.94); macrophage mannose receptor 1 (MRC1) (aa1083-1101 and aa1215-1229)/T (AUC = 0.96 and 0.99); fibrinogen alpha chain (FGA) (aa354-367, aa511-527 and aa559-573)/Sialyl T (AUC = 0.98, 0.90 and 0.94); and complement component C7 (C7) (aa692-701)/di-Sialyl T (AUC = 1.00), can have high diagnostic efficacy to strategically predict advanced CRC groups. Hence, they could be promising markers for detection of advanced CRC, and provide new clinical test indicators along with lectins, such as MPL and jacalin. Our O-glycoproteomics platform provides a novel tool and resource, for researchers and clinicians seeking to better understand and treat advanced CRC.
PXD039145	36848995	Can blood proteome diversity among fish species help explain perfluoroalkyl acid trophodynamics in aquatic food webs? 	Can Blood Proteome Diversity Among Fish Species Help Explain Perfluoroalkyl Acid Trophodynamics in Aquatic Food Webs?	PFAS, albumin, apolipoproteins, biomagnification, protein binding, shotgun proteomics	Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are a diverse family of industrially significant synthetic chemicals infamous for extreme environmental persistence and global environmental distribution. Many PFAS are bioaccumulative and biologically active mainly due to their tendency to bind with various proteins. These protein interactions are important in determining the accumulation potential and tissue distribution of individual PFAS. Trophodynamics studies including aquatic food webs present inconsistent evidence for PFAS biomagnification. This study strives to identify whether the observed variability in PFAS bioaccumulation potential among species could correspond with interspecies protein composition differences. Specifically, this work compares the perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) serum protein binding potential and the tissue distribution of ten perfluoroalkyl acids (PFAAs) detected in alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus), deepwater sculpin (Myoxocephalus thompsonii), and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) of the Lake Ontario aquatic piscivorous food web. These three fish sera and fetal bovine reference serum all had unique total serum protein concentrations. Serum protein-PFOS binding experiments showed divergent patterns between fetal bovine serum and fish sera, suggesting potentially two different PFOS binding mechanisms. To identify interspecies differences in PFAS-binding serum proteins, fish sera were pre-equilibrated with PFOS, fractionated by serial molecular weight cut-off filter fractionation, followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the tryptic protein digests and the PFOS extracts of each fraction. This workflow identified similar serum proteins for all fish species. However, serum albumin was only identified in lake trout, suggesting apolipoproteins are likely the primary PFAA transporters in alewife and deepwater sculpin sera. PFAA tissue distribution analysis provided supporting evidence for interspecies variations in lipid transport and storage, which may also contribute to the varied PFAA accumulation in these species. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD039145.
PXD033056	36851063	Prediction of Molecular Initiating Events for Adverse Outcome Pathways Using High-Throughput Identification of Chemical Targets. 	Proteome integral solubility alteration assay combined with multi-criteria decision-making analysis for developing adverse outcome pathways	HepG2, Proteome integral solubility alteration assay, TCDD, analytical hierarchy process, bioactive compound, hepatocytes, pollutants	The impact of exposure to multiple chemicals raises concerns for human and environmental health. The adverse outcome pathway method offers a framework to support mechanism-based assessment in environmental health starting by describing which mechanisms are triggered upon interaction with different stressors. The identification of the molecular initiating event and the molecular interaction between a chemical and a protein target is still a challenge for the development of adverse outcome pathways. The cellular response to chemical exposure studied with omics could not directly identify the protein targets. However, recent mass spectrometry-based methods are offering a proteome-wide identification of protein targets interacting with s but unrevealing a molecular initiating event from a set of targets is still dependent on available knowledge. Here, we directly coupled the target identification findings from the proteome integral solubility alteration assay with an analytical hierarchy process for the prediction of a prioritized molecular initiating event. We demonstrate the applicability of this combination of methodologies with a test compound (TCDD), and it could be further studied and integrated into AOPs. From the eight protein targets identified by the proteome integral solubility alteration assay after analyzing 2824 human hepatic proteins, the analytical hierarchy process can select the most suitable protein for an AOP. Our combined method solves the missing links between high-throughput target identification and prediction of the molecular initiating event. We anticipate its utility to decipher new molecular initiating events and support more sustainable methodologies to gain time and resources in chemical assessment.
PXD033206	36852159	Proteomic and single-cell landscape reveals novel pathogenic mechanisms of HBV-infected intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. 	Novel Molecular Subgroups of Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Discovered by Single-Cell RNA Sequencing-Assisted Multi-Omics Analysis	FFPE, ICC	Despite the epidemiological association between intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, little is known about the relevant oncogenic effects. A cohort of 32 HBV-infected ICC and 89 non-HBV-ICC patients were characterized using whole-exome sequencing, proteomic analysis, and single-cell RNA sequencing. Proteomic analysis revealed decreased cell-cell junction levels in HBV-ICC patients. The cell-cell junction level had an inverse relationship with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) program in ICC patients. Analysis of the immune landscape found that more CD8 T cells and Th2 cells were present in HBV-ICC patients. Single-cell analysis indicated that transforming growth factor beta signaling-related EMT program changes increased in tumor cells of HBV-ICC patients. Moreover, ICAM1(+) tumor-associated macrophages are correlated with a poor prognosis and contributed to the EMT in HBV-ICC patients. Our findings provide new insights into the behavior of HBV-infected ICC driven by various pathogenic mechanisms involving decreased cell junction levels and increased progression of the EMT program.
PXD031340	36852859	Loss of CpFTSY Reduces Photosynthetic Performance and Affects Insertion of PsaC of PSI in Diatoms. 	CpFTSY mediates co-translational insertion of thylakoid membrane proteins in diatoms, modulating their photosynthetic performances.	CpFTSY mediates co-translational insertion of thylakoid membrane proteins in diatoms, modulating their photosynthetic performances.	The chloroplast signal recognition particle (CpSRP) receptor (CpFTSY) is a component of the CpSRP pathway that post-translationally targets light-harvesting complex proteins (LHCPs) to the thylakoid membranes in plants and green algae containing chloroplasts derived from primary endosymbiosis. In plants, CpFTSY also plays a major role in the co-translational incorporation of chloroplast-encoded subunits of photosynthetic complexes into the thylakoids. This role has not been demonstrated in green algae. So far, its function in organisms with chloroplasts derived from secondary endosymbiotic events has not been elucidated. Here, we report the generation and characterization of mutants lacking CpFTSY in the diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. We found that this protein is not involved in inserting LHCPs into thylakoid membranes, indicating that the post-translational part of the CpSRP pathway is not active in this group of microalgae. The lack of CpFTSY caused an increased level of photoprotection, low electron transport rates, inefficient repair of photosystem II (PSII), reduced growth, a strong decline in the PSI subunit PsaC and upregulation of proteins that might compensate for a non-functional co-translational CpSRP pathway during light stress conditions. The phenotype was highly similar to the one described for diatoms lacking another component of the co-translational CpSRP pathway, the CpSRP54 protein. However, in contrast to cpsrp54 mutants, only one thylakoid membrane protein, PetD of the Cytb6f complex, was downregulated in cpftsy. Our results point to a minor role for CpFTSY in the co-translational CpSRP pathway, suggesting that other mechanisms may partially compensate for the effect of a disrupted CpSRP pathway.
PXD033424	36852893	Human Mitochondrial Protein HSPD1 Binds to and Regulates the Repair of Deoxyinosine in DNA. 	Identification of dI-binding proteins	dI-binding proteins	The generation of deoxyinosine (dI) in DNA is one of the most important sources of genetic mutations, which may lead to cancer and other human diseases. A further understanding of the biological consequences of dI necessitates the identification and functional characterizations of dI-binding proteins. Herein, we employed a mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach to detect the cellular proteins that may sense the presence of dI in DNA. Our results demonstrated that human mitochondrial heat shock protein 60 (HSPD1) can interact with dI-bearing DNA. We further demonstrated the involvement of HSPD1 in the sodium nitrite-induced DNA damage response and in the modulation of dI levels in vitro and in human cells. Together, these findings revealed HSPD1 as a novel dI-binding protein that may play an important role in the mitochondrial DNA damage control in human cells.
PXD035964	36853827	NCF1-dependent production of ROS protects against lupus by regulating plasmacytoid dendritic cell development and functions. 	NCF1-dependent low production of reactive oxygen species in plasmacytoid dendritic cells exacerbates lupus	Lupus, plasmacytoid dendritic cells, reactive oxygen species	Low capacity to produce ROS because of mutations in neutrophil cytosolic factor 1 (NCF1/p47phox), a component of NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2) complex, is strongly associated with systemic lupus erythematosus in both humans and mouse models. Here, we aimed to identify the key immune cell type(s) and cellular mechanisms driving lupus pathogenesis under the condition of NCF1-dependent ROS deficiency. Using cell-specific Cre-deleter, human NCF1-339 variant knockin, and transgenic mouse strains, we show that low ROS production in plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) exacerbated both pristane-induced lupus and a potentially new Y-linked autoimmune accelerating locus-related spontaneous model by promoting pDC accumulation in multiple organs during lupus development, accompanied by elevated IFN-alpha levels and expression of IFN-stimulated genes. Mechanistic studies revealed that ROS deficiency enhanced pDC generation through the AKT/mTOR pathway and CCR2-mediated migration to tissues, which together with hyperactivation of the redox-sensitive stimulator of interferon genes/IFN-alpha/JAK1/STAT1 cascade further augmented type I IFN responses. More importantly, by suppressing these pathways, restoration of NOX2-derived ROS specifically in pDCs protected against lupus. These discoveries explain the causative effect of dysfunctional NCF1 in lupus and demonstrate the protective role of pDC-derived ROS in disease development driven by NCF1-dependent ROS deficiency.
PXD036896	36854377	MRPS36 provides a structural link in the eukaryotic 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. 	MRPS36 provides a missing link in the eukaryotic 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex for recruitment of E3 to the E2 core - Phospoproteomics data	2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDHC), Comparative genomics, Krebs cycle, MRPS36, Tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, complexome profiling, cross-linking mass spectrometry, heart mitochondria, structural biology	The tricarboxylic acid cycle is the central pathway of energy production in eukaryotic cells and plays a key part in aerobic respiration throughout all kingdoms of life. One of the pivotal enzymes in this cycle is 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (OGDHC), which generates NADH by oxidative decarboxylation of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA. OGDHC is a megadalton protein complex originally thought to be assembled from three catalytically active subunits (E1o, E2o, E3). In fungi and animals, however, the protein MRPS36 has more recently been proposed as a putative additional component. Based on extensive cross-linking mass spectrometry data supported by phylogenetic analyses, we provide evidence that MRPS36 is an important member of the eukaryotic OGDHC, with no prokaryotic orthologues. Comparative sequence analysis and computational structure predictions reveal that, in contrast with bacteria and archaea, eukaryotic E2o does not contain the peripheral subunit-binding domain (PSBD), for which we propose that MRPS36 evolved as an E3 adaptor protein, functionally replacing the PSBD. We further provide a refined structural model of the complete eukaryotic OGDHC of approximately 3.45 MDa with novel mechanistic insights.
PXD039748	36854487	Homocysteine impedes neurite outgrowth recovery after intracerebral haemorrhage by downregulating pCAMK2A. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals the disturb of kinase-substrates in intracerebral hemorrhage with hyperhomocysteinaemia	Homocysteinaemia, Intracerebral hemorrhage, Phosphoproteomics	Hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) is independently associated with poorer long-term prognosis in patients with intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH); however, the effect and mechanisms of HHcy on ICH are still unclear. Here, we evaluated neurite outgrowth and neurological functional recovery using simulated models of ICH with HHcy in vitro and in vivo. We found that the neurite outgrowth velocity and motor functional recovery in the ICH plus HHcy group were significantly slower than that in the control group, indicating that homocysteine (Hcy) significantly impedes the neurite outgrowth recovery after ICH. Furthermore, phosphoproteomic data and signalome analysis of perihematomal brain tissues suggested that calmodulin-dependent protein kinases 2 (CAMK2A) kinase substrate pairs were significantly downregulated in ICH with HHcy compared with autologous blood injection only, both western blot and immunofluorescence staining confirmed this finding. Additionally, upregulation of pCAMK2A significantly increased neurite outgrowth recovery in ICH with HHcy. Collectively, we clarify the mechanism of HHcy-hindered neurite outgrowth recovery, and pCAMK2A may serve as a therapeutic strategy for promoting neurological recovery after ICH.
PXD030297	36854761	Structural mechanism for inhibition of PP2A-B56alpha and oncogenicity by CIP2A. 	Structural mechanism for inhibition of PP2A-B56 and oncogenicity by CIP2A	AP-MS, interactome, oncogene, protein phosphatase	The protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) heterotrimer PP2A-B56alpha is a human tumour suppressor. However, the molecular mechanisms inhibiting PP2A-B56alpha in cancer are poorly understood. Here, we report molecular level details and structural mechanisms of PP2A-B56alpha inhibition by an oncoprotein CIP2A. Upon direct binding to PP2A-B56alpha trimer, CIP2A displaces the PP2A-A subunit and thereby hijacks both the B56alpha, and the catalytic PP2Ac subunit to form a CIP2A-B56alpha-PP2Ac pseudotrimer. Further, CIP2A competes with B56alpha substrate binding by blocking the LxxIxE-motif substrate binding pocket on B56alpha. Relevant to oncogenic activity of CIP2A across human cancers, the N-terminal head domain-mediated interaction with B56alpha stabilizes CIP2A protein. Functionally, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated single amino acid mutagenesis of the head domain blunted MYC expression and MEK phosphorylation, and abrogated triple-negative breast cancer in vivo tumour growth. Collectively, we discover a unique multi-step hijack and mute protein complex regulation mechanism resulting in tumour suppressor PP2A-B56alpha inhibition. Further, the results unfold a structural determinant for the oncogenic activity of CIP2A, potentially facilitating therapeutic modulation of CIP2A in cancer and other diseases.
PXD029877	36855072	Proteomic analysis identifies dysregulated proteins and associated molecular pathways in a cohort of gallbladder cancer patients of African ancestry. 	Proteomic Analysis identifies dysregulated proteins and associated molecular pathways in a cohort of South African Gallbladder cancer patients	Gallbladder, LC-MS, Plasma, SWATH	BACKGROUND: Gallbladder cancer (GBC) is a lethal cancer with a poor prognosis. The lack of specific and sensitive biomarkers results in delayed diagnosis with most patients presenting at late stages of the disease. Furthermore, there is little known about the molecular mechanisms associated with GBC, especially in patients of African ancestry. This study aimed to determine dysregulated proteins in South African GBC patients to identify potential mechanisms of the disease progression and plausible biomarkers. METHODS: Tissues (27 GBC, 13 Gallstone disease, and 5 normal tissues) and blood plasma (54 GBC and 73 Benign biliary pathology) were obtained from consenting patients. Protein extraction was performed on all tissues and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used for proteomic profiling. A project-specific spectral library was built using the Pulsar search algorithm. Principal component and Spearman's rank correlation analyses were performed using PAST (V4.07b). Pathway and Network analyses were conducted using REACTOME (v3.7) and stringAPP (v1.7.0), respectively. RESULTS: In the tissue sample group, there were 62 and 194 dysregulated proteins in GBC compared to normal and gallstone groups, respectively. In the plasma group, there were 33 altered proteins in GBC compared to the benign biliary pathology group. We found 9 proteins (APOA1, APOA2, RET4, TTR, HEMO, HBB, HBA, PIGR, and APOE) to be commonly dysregulated in both tissue and plasma. Furthermore, a subset analysis demonstrated that 2 proteins, S100A8 and S100A9, were downregulated in GBC patients with GD history compared to those without. Pathway analysis showed that the dysregulated proteins in GBC patients were enriched in pathways involved in smooth muscle contraction, metabolism, ECM organization, and integrin cell surface interactions. CONCLUSION: The identified dysregulated proteins help in understanding GBC molecular mechanisms in our patient group. Furthermore, the alteration of specific proteins in both tissue and plasma samples suggests their potential utility as biomarkers of GBC in this sample cohort.
PXD039160	36855266	Resistance prediction in high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma with neoadjuvant chemotherapy using data-independent acquisition proteomics and an ovary-specific spectral library. 	Resistance prediction in HGSOC with NACT using data-independent acquisition proteomics and an ovarian tissue-specific spectral library	Data-Independent Acquisition, MS spectral library, machine learning, ovarian cancer, resistance, targeted proteomics	High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) is the most common subtype of ovarian cancer with 5-year survival rates below 40%. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) followed by interval debulking surgery (IDS) is recommended for patients with advanced-stage HGSOC unsuitable for primary debulking surgery (PDS). However, about 40% of patients receiving this treatment exhibited chemoresistance of uncertain molecular mechanisms and predictability. Here, we built a high-quality ovary-specific spectral library containing 130 735 peptides and 10 696 proteins on Orbitrap instruments. Compared to a published DIA pan-human spectral library (DPHL), this spectral library provides 10% more ovary-specific and 3% more ovary-enriched proteins. This library was then applied to analyze data-independent acquisition (DIA) data of tissue samples from an HGSOC cohort treated with NACT, leading to 10 070 quantified proteins, which is 9.73% more than that with DPHL. We further established a six-protein classifier by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) to effectively predict the resistance to additional chemotherapy after IDS (Log-rank test, P = 0.002). The classifier was validated with 57 patients from an independent clinical center (P = 0.014). Thus, we have developed an ovary-specific spectral library for targeted proteome analysis, and propose a six-protein classifier that could potentially predict chemoresistance in HGSOC patients after NACT-IDS treatment.
PXD027252	36855946	AUF1 Recognizes 8-Oxo-Guanosine Embedded in DNA and Stimulates APE1 Endoribonuclease Activity. 	AUF1 recognizes 8-oxo-guanosine embedded in DNA and stimulates APE1 endoribonuclease activity	APE1, DNA-binding protein	Aims: The existence of modified ribonucleotide monophosphates embedded in genomic DNA, as a consequence of oxidative stress conditions, including 8-oxo-guanosine and ribose monophosphate abasic site (rAP), has been recently highlighted by several works and associated with oxidative stress conditions. Although human apurinic-apyrimidinic endodeoxyribonuclease 1 (APE1), a key enzyme of the base-excision repair pathway, repairs rAP sites and canonical deoxyribose monophosphate abasic sites with similar efficiency, its incision-repairing activity on 8-oxo-guanosine is very weak. The aims of this work were to: (i) identify proteins able to specifically bind 8-oxo-guanosine embedded in DNA and promote APE1 endoribonuclease activity on this lesion, and (ii) characterize the molecular and biological relevance of this interaction using human cancer cell lines. Results: By using an unbiased proteomic approach, we discovered that the AU-rich element RNA-binding protein 1 (AUF1) actively recognizes 8-oxo-guanosine and stimulates the APE1 enzymatic activity on this DNA lesion. By using orthogonal approaches, we found that: (i) the interaction between AUF1 and APE1 is modulated by H2O2-treatment; (ii) depletion of APE1 and AUF1 causes the accumulation of single- and double- strand breaks; and (iii) both proteins are involved in modulating the formation of DNA:RNA hybrids. Innovation: These results establish unexpected functions of AUF1 in modulating genome stability and improve our knowledge of APE1 biology with respect to 8-oxo-guanosine embedded in DNA. Conclusion: By showing a novel function of AUF1, our findings shed new light on the process of genome stability in mammalian cells toward oxidative stress-related damages. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 39, 411-431.
PXD037137	36856111	CRISPR/Cas9 screen uncovers functional translation of cryptic lncRNA-encoded open reading frames in human cancer. 	Identification of the expression of a novel protein in MCF7 cells	BRCA, ER, GATA3, GT3-INCP, ORFs	Emerging evidence suggests that cryptic translation within long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) may produce novel proteins with important developmental/physiological functions. However, the role of this cryptic translation in complex diseases (e.g., cancer) remains elusive. Here, we applied an integrative strategy combining ribosome profiling and CRISPR/Cas9 screening with large-scale analysis of molecular/clinical data for breast cancer (BC) and identified estrogen receptor alpha-positive (ER+) BC dependency on the cryptic ORFs encoded by lncRNA genes that were upregulated in luminal tumors. We confirmed the in vivo tumor-promoting function of an unannotated protein, GATA3-interacting cryptic protein (GT3-INCP) encoded by LINC00992, the expression of which was associated with poor prognosis in luminal tumors. GTE-INCP was upregulated by estrogen/ER and regulated estrogen-dependent cell growth. Mechanistically, GT3-INCP interacted with GATA3, a master transcription factor key to mammary gland development/BC cell proliferation, and coregulated a gene expression program that involved many BC susceptibility/risk genes and impacted estrogen response/cell proliferation. GT3-INCP/GATA3 bound to common cis regulatory elements and upregulated the expression of the tumor-promoting and estrogen-regulated BC susceptibility/risk genes MYB and PDZK1. Our study indicates that cryptic lncRNA-encoded proteins can be an important integrated component of the master transcriptional regulatory network driving aberrant transcription in cancer, and suggests that the "hidden" lncRNA-encoded proteome might be a new space for therapeutic target discovery.
PXD036551	36856436	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal the Inherent Antibiotic Resistance Mechanism against Norfloxacin Resistance in Aeromonas hydrophila. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals the inherent antibiotics resistance mechanism against norfloxacin resistance in Aeromonas hydrophlia	Aeromonas hydrophlia, H2S, Norfloxacin, sulfur metabolism	Recently, the prevalence of Aeromonas hydrophila antibiotic-resistant strains has been reported in aquaculture, but its intrinsic antibiotic resistance mechanisms are largely unknown. In the present study, a label-free proteomics technology was used to compare the differential protein abundances in response to norfloxacin (NOR) stress in A. hydrophila. The results showed that there were 186 proteins decreasing and 220 proteins increasing abundances in response to NOR stress. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the differentially expressed proteins were enriched in several biological processes, such as sulfur metabolism and homologous recombination. Furthermore, the antibiotic sensitivity assays showed that the deletion of AHA_0904, cirA, and cysI significantly decreased the resistance against NOR, whereas DeltaAHA_1239, DeltacysA, DeltacysD, and DeltacysN significantly increased the resistance against NOR. Our results provide insights into NOR resistance mechanisms and indicate that AHA_0904, cirA, AHA_1239, and sulfur metabolism may play important roles in NOR resistance in A. hydrophila.
PXD035617	36858286	cKMT1 is a New Lysine Methyltransferase That Methylates the Ferredoxin-NADP(+) Oxidoreductase and Regulates Energy Transfer in Cyanobacteria. 	Lysine methylation in cyanobacteria	methylation	Lysine methylation is a conserved and dynamic regulatory posttranslational modification performed by lysine methyltransferases (KMTs). KMTs catalyze the transfer of mono-, di-, or tri-methyl groups to substrate proteins and play a critical regulatory role in all domains of life. To date, only one KMT has been identified in cyanobacteria. Here, we tested all of the predicted KMTs in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (Synechocystis), and we biochemically characterized sll1526 that we termed cKMT1 (cyanobacterial lysine methyltransferase 1) and determined that it can catalyze lysine methylation both in vivo and in vitro. Loss of cKMT1 alters photosynthetic electron transfer in Synechocystis. We analyzed cKMT1-regulated methylation sites in Synechocystis using a timsTOF Pro instrument. We identified 305 class I lysine methylation sites within 232 proteins, and of these, 80 methylation sites in 58 proteins were hypomethylated in DeltacKMT1 cells. We further demonstrated that cKMT1 could methylate ferredoxin-NADP(+) oxidoreductase (FNR) and its potential sites of action on FNR were identified. Amino acid residues H118 and Y219 were identified as key residues in the putative active site of cKMT1 as indicated by structure simulation, site-directed mutagenesis, and KMT activity measurement. Using mutations that mimic the unmethylated forms of FNR, we demonstrated that the inability to methylate K139 residues results in a decrease in the redox activity of FNR and affects energy transfer in Synechocystis. Together, our study identified a new KMT in Synechocystis and elucidated a methylation-mediated molecular mechanism catalyzed by cKMT1 for the regulation of energy transfer in cyanobacteria.
PXD028858	36859550	H3K4me3 regulates RNA polymerase II promoter-proximal pause-release. 	Histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation regulates RNA polymerase II promoter-proximal pause-release	RNA polymerase II, histone	Trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me3) is associated with transcriptional start sites and has been proposed to regulate transcription initiation(1,2). However, redundant functions of the H3K4 SET1/COMPASS methyltransferase complexes complicate the elucidation of the specific role of H3K4me3 in transcriptional regulation(3,4). Here, using mouse embryonic stem cells as a model system, we show that acute ablation of shared subunits of the SET1/COMPASS complexes leads to a complete loss of all H3K4 methylation. Turnover of H3K4me3 occurs more rapidly than that of H3K4me1 and H3K4me2 and is dependent on KDM5 demethylases. Notably, acute loss of H3K4me3 does not have detectable effects on transcriptional initiation but leads to a widespread decrease in transcriptional output, an increase in RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) pausing and slower elongation. We show that H3K4me3 is required for the recruitment of the integrator complex subunit 11 (INTS11), which is essential for the eviction of paused RNAPII and transcriptional elongation. Thus, our study demonstrates a distinct role for H3K4me3 in transcriptional pause-release and elongation rather than transcriptional initiation.
PXD036803	36862511	Multiomics reveals multilevel control of renal and systemic metabolism by the renal tubular circadian clock. 	Integrated omic analysis reveals multilevel control of renal and systemic metabolism by the renal tubular circadian clock	control mice, mice KO for Arntl in the renal tubule, mouse kidney, renal circadian proteome	Circadian rhythmicity in renal function suggests rhythmic adaptations in renal metabolism. To decipher the role of the circadian clock in renal metabolism, we studied diurnal changes in renal metabolic pathways using integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analysis performed on control mice and mice with an inducible deletion of the circadian clock regulator Bmal1 in the renal tubule (cKOt). With this unique resource, we demonstrated that approximately 30% of RNAs, approximately 20% of proteins, and approximately 20% of metabolites are rhythmic in the kidneys of control mice. Several key metabolic pathways, including NAD+ biosynthesis, fatty acid transport, carnitine shuttle, and beta-oxidation, displayed impairments in kidneys of cKOt mice, resulting in perturbed mitochondrial activity. Carnitine reabsorption from primary urine was one of the most affected processes with an approximately 50% reduction in plasma carnitine levels and a parallel systemic decrease in tissue carnitine content. This suggests that the circadian clock in the renal tubule controls both kidney and systemic physiology.
PXD034125	36863348	Histone phosphorylation integrates the hepatic glucagon-PKA-CREB gluconeogenesis program in response to fasting. 	Histone phosphorylation integrates the hepatic glucagon-PKA-CREB gluconeogenesis program in response to fasting	Fasting, Glucagon-PKA-CREB-H3S28ph cascade, Hepatic gluconeogenesis, Histone phosphorylation	The glucagon-PKA signal is generally believed to control hepatic gluconeogenesis via the CREB transcription factor. Here we uncovered a distinct function of this signal in directly stimulating histone phosphorylation for gluconeogenic gene regulation in mice. In the fasting state, CREB recruited activated PKA to regions near gluconeogenic genes, where PKA phosphorylated histone H3 serine 28 (H3S28ph). H3S28ph, recognized by 14-3-3zeta, promoted recruitment of RNA polymerase II and transcriptional stimulation of gluconeogenic genes. In contrast, in the fed state, more PP2A was found near gluconeogenic genes, which counteracted PKA by dephosphorylating H3S28ph and repressing transcription. Importantly, ectopic expression of phosphomimic H3S28 efficiently restored gluconeogenic gene expression when liver PKA or CREB was depleted. These results together highlight a different functional scheme in regulating gluconeogenesis by the glucagon-PKA-CREB-H3S28ph cascade, in which the hormone signal is transmitted to chromatin for rapid and efficient gluconeogenic gene activation.
PXD024869	36864036	Multi-omics analysis identifies RFX7 targets involved in tumor suppression and neuronal processes. 	Nutlin-3a-induced changes in the proteome of parental and RFX7 knock-out U2OS cells	Nutlin, RFX7, Tumor	Recurrently mutated in lymphoid neoplasms, the transcription factor RFX7 is emerging as a tumor suppressor. Previous reports suggested that RFX7 may also have a role in neurological and metabolic disorders. We recently reported that RFX7 responds to p53 signaling and cellular stress. Furthermore, we found RFX7 target genes to be dysregulated in numerous cancer types also beyond the hematological system. However, our understanding of RFX7's target gene network and its role in health and disease remains limited. Here, we generated RFX7 knock-out cells and employed a multi-omics approach integrating transcriptome, cistrome, and proteome data to obtain a more comprehensive picture of RFX7 targets. We identify novel target genes linked to RFX7's tumor suppressor function and underscoring its potential role in neurological disorders. Importantly, our data reveal RFX7 as a mechanistic link that enables the activation of these genes in response to p53 signaling.
PXD039280	36864068	Insights into pulmonary phosphate homeostasis and osteoclastogenesis emerge from the study of pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis. 	Proteomics of Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis nodules	Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis (PAM), lung	Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis is an autosomal recessive lung disease caused by a deficiency in the pulmonary epithelial Npt2b sodium-phosphate co-transporter that results in accumulation of phosphate and formation of hydroxyapatite microliths in the alveolar space. The single cell transcriptomic analysis of a pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis lung explant showing a robust osteoclast gene signature in alveolar monocytes and the finding that calcium phosphate microliths contain a rich protein and lipid matrix that includes bone resorbing osteoclast enzymes and other proteins suggested a role for osteoclast-like cells in the host response to microliths. While investigating the mechanisms of microlith clearance, we found that Npt2b modulates pulmonary phosphate homeostasis through effects on alternative phosphate transporter activity and alveolar osteoprotegerin, and that microliths induce osteoclast formation and activation in a receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand and dietary phosphate dependent manner. This work reveals that Npt2b and pulmonary osteoclast-like cells play key roles in pulmonary homeostasis and suggest potential new therapeutic targets for the treatment of lung disease.
PXD036920	36864172	Mitochondria-localized cGAS suppresses ferroptosis to promote cancer progression. 	Mitochondrial LC-MS/MS in Hep3B cells	Hep3B cells, mitochondrial	A well-established role of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is the recognition of cytosolic DNA, which is linked to the activation of host defense programs against pathogens via stimulator of interferon genes (STING)-dependent innate immune response. Recent advance has also revealed that cGAS may be involved in several noninfectious contexts by localizing to subcellular compartments other than the cytosol. However, the subcellular localization and function of cGAS in different biological conditions is unclear; in particular, its role in cancer progression remains poorly understood. Here we show that cGAS is localized to mitochondria and protects hepatocellular carcinoma cells from ferroptosis in vitro and in vivo. cGAS anchors to the outer mitochondrial membrane where it associates with dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) to facilitate its oligomerization. In the absence of cGAS or DRP1 oligomerization, mitochondrial ROS accumulation and ferroptosis increase, inhibiting tumor growth. Collectively, this previously unrecognized role for cGAS in orchestrating mitochondrial function and cancer progression suggests that cGAS interactions in mitochondria can serve as potential targets for new cancer interventions.
PXD039283	36864190	Remodeling oncogenic transcriptomes by small molecules targeting NONO. 	Remodeling oncogenic transcriptomes by small molecules targeting NONO	22Rv1	Much of the human proteome is involved in mRNA homeostasis, but most RNA-binding proteins lack chemical probes. Here we identify electrophilic small molecules that rapidly and stereoselectively decrease the expression of transcripts encoding the androgen receptor and its splice variants in prostate cancer cells. We show by chemical proteomics that the compounds engage C145 of the RNA-binding protein NONO. Broader profiling revealed that covalent NONO ligands suppress an array of cancer-relevant genes and impair cancer cell proliferation. Surprisingly, these effects were not observed in cells genetically disrupted for NONO, which were instead resistant to NONO ligands. Reintroduction of wild-type NONO, but not a C145S mutant, restored ligand sensitivity in NONO-disrupted cells. The ligands promoted NONO accumulation in nuclear foci and stabilized NONO-RNA interactions, supporting a trapping mechanism that may prevent compensatory action of paralog proteins PSPC1 and SFPQ. These findings show that NONO can be co-opted by covalent small molecules to suppress protumorigenic transcriptional networks.
PXD038716	36864669	Near-physiological in vitro assembly of 50S ribosomes involves parallel pathways. 	Quantitative mass spectrometry analysis of 70S ribosomes from iSAT	70S, in vitro, ribosome	Understanding the assembly principles of biological macromolecular complexes remains a significant challenge, due to the complexity of the systems and the difficulties in developing experimental approaches. As a ribonucleoprotein complex, the ribosome serves as a model system for the profiling of macromolecular complex assembly. In this work, we report an ensemble of large ribosomal subunit intermediate structures that accumulate during synthesis in a near-physiological and co-transcriptional in vitro reconstitution system. Thirteen pre-50S intermediate maps covering the entire assembly process were resolved using cryo-EM single-particle analysis and heterogeneous subclassification. Segmentation of the set of density maps reveals that the 50S ribosome intermediates assemble based on fourteen cooperative assembly blocks, including the smallest assembly core reported to date, which is composed of a 600-nucleotide-long folded rRNA and three ribosomal proteins. The cooperative blocks assemble onto the assembly core following defined dependencies, revealing the parallel pathways at both early and late assembly stages of the 50S subunit.
PXD039930	36864832	Inhibition of diacylglycerol lipase beta modulates lipid and endocannabinoid levels in the ex vivo human placenta. 	Inhibition of diacylglycerol lipase beta modulates lipid and endocannabinoid levels in the ex vivo human placenta	Chemoproteomics, Human Placenta	Introduction: Lipids and fatty acids are key components in metabolic processes of the human placenta, thereby contributing to the development of the fetus. Placental dyslipidemia and aberrant activity of lipases have been linked to diverse pregnancy associated complications, such as preeclampsia and preterm birth. The serine hydrolases, diacylglycerol lipase alpha and beta (DAGLalpha, DAGLbeta) catalyze the degradation of diacylglycerols, leading to the formation of monoacylglycerols (MAG), including one main endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG). The major role of DAGL in the biosynthesis of 2-AG is evident from various studies in mice but has not been investigated in the human placenta. Here, we report the use of the small molecule inhibitor DH376, in combination with the ex vivo placental perfusion system, activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) and lipidomics, to determine the impact of acute DAGL inhibition on placental lipid networks. Methods: DAGLalpha and DAGLbeta mRNA expression was detected by RT-qPCR and in situ hybridization in term placentas. Immunohistochemistry staining for CK7, CD163 and VWF was applied to localize DAGLbeta transcripts to different cell types of the placenta. DAGLbeta activity was determined by in- gel and MS-based activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) and validated by addition of the enzyme inhibitors LEI-105 and DH376. Enzyme kinetics were measured by EnzChek(TM) lipase substrate assay. Ex vivo placental perfusion experiments were performed +/- DH376 [1 microM] and changes in tissue lipid and fatty acid profiles were measured by LC-MS. Additionally, free fatty acid levels of the maternal and fetal circulations were determined. Results: We demonstrate that mRNA expression of DAGLbeta prevails in placental tissue, compared to DAGLalpha (p <= 0.0001) and that DAGLbeta is mainly located to CK7 positive trophoblasts (p <= 0.0001). Although few DAGLalpha transcripts were identified, no active enzyme was detected applying in-gel or MS-based ABPP, which underlined that DAGLbeta is the principal DAGL in the placenta. DAGLbeta dependent substrate hydrolysis in placental membrane lysates was determined by the application of LEI-105 and DH376. Ex vivo pharmacological inhibition of DAGLbeta by DH376 led to reduced MAG tissue levels (p <= 0.01), including 2-AG (p<=0.0001). We further provide an activity landscape of serine hydrolases, showing a broad spectrum of metabolically active enzymes in the human placenta. Discussion: Our results emphasize the role of DAGLbeta activity in the human placenta by determining the biosynthesis of 2-AG. Thus, this study highlights the special importance of intra-cellular lipases in lipid network regulation. Together, the activity of these specific enzymes may contribute to the lipid signaling at the maternal-fetal interface, with implications for function of the placenta in normal and compromised pregnancies.
PXD035764	36866041	Employing non-targeted interactomics approach and subcellular fractionation to increase our understanding of the ghost proteome. 	Employing non-targeted interactomics approach and subcellular fractionation to increase our understanding of the ghost proteome	Alternative Open Reading Frames, Cross-linking, Ghost proteome	Eukaryotic mRNA has long been considered monocistronic, but nowadays, alternative proteins (AltProts) challenge this tenet. The alternative or ghost proteome has largely been neglected and the involvement of AltProts in biological processes. Here, we used subcellular fractionation to increase the information about AltProts and facilitate the detection of protein-protein interactions by the identification of crosslinked peptides. In total, 112 unique AltProts were identified, and we were able to identify 220 crosslinks without peptide enrichment. Among these, 16 crosslinks between AltProts and Referenced Proteins (RefProts) were identified. We further focused on specific examples such as the interaction between IP_2292176 (AltFAM227B) and HLA-B, in which this protein could be a potential new immunopeptide, and the interactions between HIST1H4F and several AltProts which can play a role in mRNA transcription. Thanks to the study of the interactome and the localization of AltProts, we can reveal more of the importance of the ghost proteome.
PXD033960	36868209	Linking chromatin acylation mark-defined proteome and genome in living cells. 	Confirmation of direct interaction between H3K56cr and GLYR1 by H3K*56cr Site-Link in living cells	GLYR1, H3K56cr, pLink	A generalizable strategy with programmable site specificity for in situ profiling of histone modifications on unperturbed chromatin remains highly desirable but challenging. We herein developed a single-site-resolved multi-omics (SiTomics) strategy for systematic mapping of dynamic modifications and subsequent profiling of chromatinized proteome and genome defined by specific chromatin acylations in living cells. By leveraging the genetic code expansion strategy, our SiTomics toolkit revealed distinct crotonylation (e.g., H3K56cr) and beta-hydroxybutyrylation (e.g., H3K56bhb) upon short chain fatty acids stimulation and established linkages for chromatin acylation mark-defined proteome, genome, and functions. This led to the identification of GLYR1 as a distinct interacting protein in modulating H3K56cr's gene body localization as well as the discovery of an elevated super-enhancer repertoire underlying bhb-mediated chromatin modulations. SiTomics offers a platform technology for elucidating the "metabolites-modification-regulation" axis, which is widely applicable for multi-omics profiling and functional dissection of modifications beyond acylations and proteins beyond histones.
PXD034924	36868228	DAXX adds a de novo H3.3K9me3 deposition pathway to the histone chaperone network. 	Histone modifications associated with the histone chaperone DAXX	DAXX, H3.3, Histones, PTMs	A multitude of histone chaperones are required to support histones from their biosynthesis until DNA deposition. They cooperate through the formation of histone co-chaperone complexes, but the crosstalk between nucleosome assembly pathways remains enigmatic. Using exploratory interactomics, we define the interplay between human histone H3-H4 chaperones in the histone chaperone network. We identify previously uncharacterized histone-dependent complexes and predict the structure of the ASF1 and SPT2 co-chaperone complex, expanding the role of ASF1 in histone dynamics. We show that DAXX provides a unique functionality to the histone chaperone network, recruiting histone methyltransferases to promote H3K9me3 catalysis on new histone H3.3-H4 prior to deposition onto DNA. Hereby, DAXX provides a molecular mechanism for de novo H3K9me3 deposition and heterochromatin assembly. Collectively, our findings provide a framework for understanding how cells orchestrate histone supply and employ targeted deposition of modified histones to underpin specialized chromatin states.
PXD027934	36868234	Hippo pathway and Bonus control developmental cell fate decisions in the Drosophila eye. 	Yorkie and Bonus protein interactome-Hippo pathway and Bonus control developmental cell fate decisions in the Drosophila eye	Bon, Drosophila, S2 cell, Yki, embryo	The canonical function of the Hippo signaling pathway is the regulation of organ growth. How this pathway controls cell-fate determination is less well understood. Here, we identify a function of the Hippo pathway in cell-fate decisions in the developing Drosophila eye, exerted through the interaction of Yorkie (Yki) with the transcriptional regulator Bonus (Bon), an ortholog of mammalian transcriptional intermediary factor 1/tripartite motif (TIF1/TRIM) family proteins. Instead of controlling tissue growth, Yki and Bon promote epidermal and antennal fates at the expense of the eye fate. Proteomic, transcriptomic, and genetic analyses reveal that Yki and Bon control these cell-fate decisions by recruiting transcriptional and post-transcriptional co-regulators and by repressing Notch target genes and activating epidermal differentiation genes. Our work expands the range of functions and regulatory mechanisms under Hippo pathway control.
PXD032047	36868311	Mimicking Tumor Cell Heterogeneity of Colorectal Cancer in a Patient-derived Organoid-Fibroblast Model. 	Mimicking tumor cell heterogeneity of colorectal cancer in a patient-derived organoid-fibroblast model	cancer associated fibroblast, colorectal cancer, normal fibroblast	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Patient-derived organoid cancer models are generated from epithelial tumor cells and reflect tumor characteristics. However, they lack the complexity of the tumor microenvironment, which is a key driver of tumorigenesis and therapy response. Here, we developed a colorectal cancer organoid model that incorporates matched epithelial cells and stromal fibroblasts. METHODS: Primary fibroblasts and tumor cells were isolated from colorectal cancer specimens. Fibroblasts were characterized for their proteome, secretome, and gene expression signatures. Fibroblast/organoid co-cultures were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and compared with their tissue of origin, as well as on gene expression levels compared with standard organoid models. Bioinformatics deconvolution was used to calculate cellular proportions of cell subsets in organoids based on single-cell RNA sequencing data. RESULTS: Normal primary fibroblasts, isolated from tumor adjacent tissue, and cancer associated fibroblasts retained their molecular characteristics in vitro, including higher motility of cancer associated compared with normal fibroblasts. Importantly, both cancer-associated fibroblasts and normal fibroblasts supported cancer cell proliferation in 3D co-cultures, without the addition of classical niche factors. Organoids grown together with fibroblasts displayed a larger cellular heterogeneity of tumor cells compared with mono-cultures and closely resembled the in vivo tumor morphology. Additionally, we observed a mutual crosstalk between tumor cells and fibroblasts in the co-cultures. This was manifested by considerably deregulated pathways such as cell-cell communication and extracellular matrix remodeling in the organoids. Thrombospondin-1 was identified as a critical factor for fibroblast invasiveness. CONCLUSION: We developed a physiological tumor/stroma model, which will be vital as a personalized tumor model to study disease mechanisms and therapy response in colorectal cancer.
PXD026197	36868481	Liquid biopsy-based protein biomarkers for risk prediction, early diagnosis, and prognostication of cholangiocarcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of serum EVs derived from PSC, CCA and PSC-CCA patients	CCA, EVs, Liver, PSC	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), heterogeneous biliary tumours with dismal prognosis, lacks accurate early diagnostic methods especially important for individuals at high-risk (i.e. those with primary sclerosing cholangitis [PSC]). Here, we searched for protein biomarkers in serum extracellular vesicles (EVs). METHODS: EVs from patients with isolated PSC (n = 45), concomitant PSC-CCA (n = 44), PSC who developed CCA during follow-up (PSC to CCA; n = 25), CCAs from non-PSC aetiology (n = 56), and hepatocellular carcinoma (n = 34) and healthy individuals (n = 56) were characterised by mass spectrometry. Diagnostic biomarkers for PSC-CCA, non-PSC CCA, or CCAs regardless of aetiology (Pan-CCAs) were defined and validated by ELISA. Their expression was evaluated in CCA tumours at a single-cell level. Prognostic EV biomarkers for CCA were investigated. RESULTS: High-throughput proteomics of EVs identified diagnostic biomarkers for PSC-CCA, non-PSC CCA, or Pan-CCA, and for the differential diagnosis of intrahepatic CCA and hepatocellular carcinoma, which were cross-validated by ELISA using total serum. Machine learning-based algorithms disclosed CRP/FIBRINOGEN/FRIL for the diagnosis of PSC-CCA (local disease [LD]) vs. isolated PSC (AUC = 0.947; odds ratio [OR] =36.9) and, combined with carbohydrate antigen 19-9, overpowers carbohydrate antigen 19-9 alone. CRP/PIGR/VWF allowed the diagnosis of LD non-PSC CCAs vs. healthy individuals (AUC = 0.992; OR = 387.5). It is noteworthy that CRP/FRIL accurately diagnosed LD Pan-CCA (AUC = 0.941; OR = 89.4). Levels of CRP/FIBRINOGEN/FRIL/PIGR showed predictive capacity for CCA development in PSC before clinical evidence of malignancy. Multi-organ transcriptomic analysis revealed that serum EV biomarkers were mostly expressed in hepatobiliary tissues, and single-cell RNA sequencing and immunofluorescence analysis of CCA tumours showed their presence mainly in malignant cholangiocytes. Multivariable analysis unveiled EV prognostic biomarkers, with COMP/GNAI2/CFAI and ACTN1/MYCT1/PF4V associated negatively and positively with patients' survival, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Serum EVs contain protein biomarkers for the prediction, early diagnosis, and prognostication of CCA that are detectable using total serum, representing a tumour cell-derived liquid biopsy tool for personalised medicine. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: The accuracy of current imaging tests and circulating tumour biomarkers for cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) diagnosis is far from satisfactory. Most CCAs are considered sporadic, although up to 20% of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) develop CCA during their lifetime, constituting a major cause of PSC-related death. This international study has proposed protein-based and aetiology-related logistic models with predictive, diagnostic, or prognostic capacities by combining two to four circulating protein biomarkers, moving a step forward into personalised medicine. These novel liquid biopsy tools may allow the (i) easy and non-invasive diagnosis of sporadic CCAs, (ii) identification of patients with PSC with higher risk for CCA development, (iii) establishment of cost-effective surveillance programmes for the early detection of CCA in high-risk populations (e.g. PSC), and (iv) prognostic stratification of patients with CCA, which, altogether, may increase the number of cases eligible for potentially curative options or to receive more successful treatments, decreasing CCA-related mortality.
PXD034882	36869085	Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomic profiling identifies candidate serum biomarkers of drug-induced liver injury in humans. 	Tandem Mass Tag-Based Quantitative Proteomic Profiling Identifies Novel Serum Biomarkers of Drug-Induced Liver Injury in Humans	Biomarker, DILI, Liver Disease	Diagnosis of drug-induced liver injury (DILI) and its distinction from other liver diseases are significant challenges in drug development and clinical practice. Here, we identify, confirm, and replicate the biomarker performance characteristics of candidate proteins in patients with DILI at onset (DO; n = 133) and follow-up (n = 120), acute non-DILI at onset (NDO; n = 63) and follow-up (n = 42), and healthy volunteers (HV; n = 104). Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) for cytoplasmic aconitate hydratase, argininosuccinate synthase, carbamoylphosphate synthase, fumarylacetoacetase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1) across cohorts achieved near complete separation (range: 0.94-0.99) of DO and HV. In addition, we show that FBP1, alone or in combination with glutathione S-transferase A1 and leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2, could potentially assist in clinical diagnosis by distinguishing NDO from DO (AUC range: 0.65-0.78), but further technical and clinical validation of these candidate biomarkers is needed.
PXD026752	36869663	Proteomic analyses reveal new features of the box H/ACA RNP biogenesis. 	MS analysis of GAR1 methylation immunopurified from HEK-293 Cells	APMS, methylation	The conserved H/ACA RNPs consist of one H/ACA RNA and 4 core proteins: dyskerin, NHP2, NOP10, and GAR1. Its assembly requires several assembly factors. A pre-particle containing the nascent RNAs, dyskerin, NOP10, NHP2 and NAF1 is assembled co-transcriptionally. NAF1 is later replaced by GAR1 to form mature RNPs. In this study, we explore the mechanism leading to the assembly of H/ACA RNPs. We performed the analysis of GAR1, NHP2, SHQ1 and NAF1 proteomes by quantitative SILAC proteomic, and analyzed purified complexes containing these proteins by sedimentation on glycerol gradient. We propose the formation of several distinct intermediate complexes during H/ACA RNP assembly, notably the formation of early protein-only complexes containing at least the core proteins dyskerin, NOP10, and NHP2, and the assembly factors SHQ1 and NAF1. We also identified new proteins associated with GAR1, NHP2, SHQ1 and NAF1, which can be important for box H/ACA assembly or function. Moreover, even though GAR1 is regulated by methylations, the nature, localization, and functions of these methylations are not well known. Our MS analysis of purified GAR1 revealed new sites of arginine methylations. Additionally, we showed that unmethylated GAR1 is correctly incorporated in H/ACA RNPs, even though with less efficiency than methylated ones.
PXD023831	36869735	A point mutation in the kinase domain of CRK10 leads to xylem vessel collapse and activation of defence responses in Arabidopsis. 	Post-translational modification mapping - CRK10 WT and crk10-A397T kinase domain	CRK10, Kinase domain, cysteine-rich receptor-like kinase	Cysteine-rich receptor-like kinases (CRKs) are a large family of plasma membrane-bound receptors ubiquitous in higher plants. However, despite their prominence, their biological roles have remained largely elusive so far. In this study we report the characterization of an Arabidopsis mutant named crk10-A397T in which alanine 397 has been replaced by a threonine in the alphaC helix of the kinase domain of CRK10, known to be a crucial regulatory module in mammalian kinases. The crk10-A397T mutant is a dwarf that displays collapsed xylem vessels in the root and hypocotyl, whereas the vasculature of the inflorescence develops normally. In situ phosphorylation assays with His-tagged wild type and crk10-A397T versions of the CRK10 kinase domain revealed that both alleles are active kinases capable of autophosphorylation, with the newly introduced threonine acting as an additional phosphorylation site in crk10-A397T. Transcriptomic analysis of wild type and crk10-A397T mutant hypocotyls revealed that biotic and abiotic stress-responsive genes are constitutively up-regulated in the mutant, and a root-infection assay with the vascular pathogen Fusarium oxysporum demonstrated that the mutant has enhanced resistance to this pathogen compared with wild type plants. Taken together our results suggest that crk10-A397T is a gain-of-function allele of CRK10, the first such mutant to have been identified for a CRK in Arabidopsis.
PXD038984	36870062	Developmental mRNA clearance by PIWI-bound endo-siRNAs in Paramecium. 	Developmental mRNA clearance by PIWI-bound endo-siRNAs in Paramecium	Paramecium tetraurelia, Piwi, mRNA clearance, siRNAs, total protein < 25kDa, untranslated mRNA	The clearance of untranslated mRNAs by Argonaute proteins is essential for embryonic development in metazoans. However, it is currently unknown whether similar processes exist in unicellular eukaryotes. The ciliate Paramecium tetraurelia harbors a vast array of PIWI-clade Argonautes involved in various small RNA (sRNA) pathways, many of which have not yet been investigated. Here, we investigate the function of a PIWI protein, Ptiwi08, whose expression is limited to a narrow time window during development, concomitant with the start of zygotic transcription. We show that Ptiwi08 acts in an endogenous small interfering RNA (endo-siRNA) pathway involved in the clearance of untranslated mRNAs. These endo-siRNAs are found in clusters that are strictly antisense to their target mRNAs and are a subset of siRNA-producing clusters (SRCs). Furthermore, the endo-siRNAs are 2'-O-methylated by Hen1 and require Dcr1 for their biogenesis. Our findings suggest that sRNA-mediated developmental mRNA clearance extends beyond metazoans and may be a more widespread mechanism than previously anticipated.
PXD035247	36870567	Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein Markers Indicate Neuro-Damage in SARS-CoV-2-Infected Nonhuman Primates. 	Cerebrospinal fluid protein markers indicate neuro-damage in SARS-CoV-2-infected non-human primates	African green monkeys, COVID-19, CSF, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Rhesus macaque, mass-spectrometry, neuropathology	Neurologic manifestations are among the most frequently reported complications of COVID-19. However, given the paucity of tissue samples and the highly infectious nature of the etiologic agent of COVID-19, we have limited information to understand the neuropathogenesis of COVID-19. Therefore, to better understand the impact of COVID-19 on the brain, we used mass-spectrometry-based proteomics with a data-independent acquisition mode to investigate cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins collected from two different nonhuman primates, Rhesus Macaque and African Green Monkeys, for the neurologic effects of the infection. These monkeys exhibited minimal to mild pulmonary pathology but moderate to severe central nervous system (CNS) pathology. Our results indicated that CSF proteome changes after infection resolution corresponded with bronchial virus abundance during early infection and revealed substantial differences between the infected nonhuman primates and their age-matched uninfected controls, suggesting these differences could reflect altered secretion of CNS factors in response to SARS-CoV-2-induced neuropathology. We also observed the infected animals exhibited highly scattered data distributions compared to their corresponding controls indicating the heterogeneity of the CSF proteome change and the host response to the viral infection. Dysregulated CSF proteins were preferentially enriched in functional pathways associated with progressive neurodegenerative disorders, hemostasis, and innate immune responses that could influence neuroinflammatory responses following COVID-19. Mapping these dysregulated proteins to the Human Brain Protein Atlas found that they tended to be enriched in brain regions that exhibit more frequent injury following COVID-19. It, therefore, appears reasonable to speculate that such CSF protein changes could serve as signatures for neurologic injury, identify important regulatory pathways in this process, and potentially reveal therapeutic targets to prevent or attenuate the development of neurologic injuries following COVID-19.
PXD052329	36870568	Serum Proteomics Identifies Biomarkers Associated With the Pathogenesis of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis. 	Serum proteomics identify biomarkers associated with the pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis	Pulmonary fibrosis	The heterogeneity of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) limits its diagnosis and treatment. The association between the pathophysiological features and the serum protein signatures of IPF currently remains unclear. The present study analyzed the specific proteins and patterns associated with the clinical parameters of IPF based on a serum proteomic dataset by data-independent acquisition using MS. Differentiated proteins in sera distinguished patients with IPF into three subgroups in signal pathways and overall survival. Aging-associated signatures by weighted gene correlation network analysis coincidently provided clear and direct evidence that aging is a critical risk factor for IPF rather than a single biomarker. Expression of LDHA and CCT6A, which was associated with glucose metabolic reprogramming, was correlated with high serum lactic acid content in patients with IPF. Cross-model analysis and machine learning showed that a combinatorial biomarker accurately distinguished patients with IPF from healthy individuals with an area under the curve of 0.848 (95% CI = 0.684-0.941) and validated from another cohort and ELISA assay. This serum proteomic profile provides rigorous evidence that enables an understanding of the heterogeneity of IPF and protein alterations that could help in its diagnosis and treatment decisions.
PXD038905	36870675	The triticale mature pollen and stigma proteomes - assembling the proteins for a productive encounter. 	The Triticale Mature Pollen and Stigma Proteomes - Assembling the Proteins for a Productive Encounter	Brassica, Triticeae, iTRAQ, pollen, pollination, stigma, triticale	Triticeae crops are major contributors to global food production and ensuring their capacity to reproduce and generate seeds is critical. However, despite their importance our knowledge of the proteins underlying Triticeae reproduction is severely lacking and this is not only true of pollen and stigma development, but also of their pivotal interaction. When the pollen grain and stigma are brought together they have each accumulated the proteins required for their intended meeting and accordingly studying their mature proteomes is bound to reveal proteins involved in their diverse and complex interactions. Using triticale as a Triticeae representative, gel-free shotgun proteomics was used to identify 11,533 and 2977 mature stigma and pollen proteins respectively. These datasets, by far the largest to date, provide unprecedented insights into the proteins participating in Triticeae pollen and stigma development and interactions. The study of the Triticeae stigma has been particularly neglected. To begin filling this knowledge gap, a developmental iTRAQ analysis was performed revealing 647 proteins displaying differential abundance as the stigma matures in preparation for pollination. An in-depth comparison to an equivalent Brassicaceae analysis divulged both conservation and diversification in the makeup and function of proteins involved in the pollen and stigma encounter. SIGNIFICANCE: Successful pollination brings together the mature pollen and stigma thus initiating an intricate series of molecular processes vital to crop reproduction. In the Triticeae crops (e.g. wheat, barley, rye, triticale) there persists a vast deficit in our knowledge of the proteins involved which needs to be addressed if we are to face the many upcoming challenges to crop production such as those associated with climate change. At maturity, both the pollen and stigma have acquired the protein complement necessary for their forthcoming encounter and investigating their proteomes will inevitably provide unprecedented insights into the proteins enabling their interactions. By combining the analysis of the most comprehensive Triticeae pollen and stigma global proteome datasets to date with developmental iTRAQ investigations, proteins implicated in the different phases of pollen-stigma interaction enabling pollen adhesion, recognition, hydration, germination and tube growth, as well as those underlying stigma development were revealed. Extensive comparisons between equivalent Triticeae and Brassiceae datasets highlighted both the conservation of biological processes in line with the shared goal of activating the pollen grain and promoting pollen tube invasion of the pistil to effect fertilization, as well as the significant distinctions in their proteomes consistent with the considerable differences in their biochemistry, physiology and morphology.
PXD039587	36871047	Fibroblast growth factor 18 alleviates stress-induced pathological cardiac hypertrophy in male mice. 	neonatal rat cardiomyocytes LC-MS/MS	NRCMs ISO	Fibroblast growth factor-18 (FGF18) has diverse organ development and damage repair roles. However, its role in cardiac homeostasis following hypertrophic stimulation remains unknown. Here we investigate the regulation and function of the FGF18 in pressure overload (PO)-induced pathological cardiac hypertrophy. FGF18 heterozygous (Fgf18(+/-)) and inducible cardiomyocyte-specific FGF18 knockout (Fgf18-CKO) male mice exposed to transverse aortic constriction (TAC) demonstrate exacerbated pathological cardiac hypertrophy with increased oxidative stress, cardiomyocyte death, fibrosis, and dysfunction. In contrast, cardiac-specific overexpression of FGF18 alleviates hypertrophy, decreased oxidative stress, attenuates cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and ameliorates fibrosis and cardiac function. Tyrosine-protein kinase FYN (FYN), the downstream factor of FGF18, was identified by bioinformatics analysis, LC-MS/MS and experiment validation. Mechanistic studies indicate that FGF18/FGFR3 promote FYN activity and expression and negatively regulate NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), thereby inhibiting reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and alleviating pathological cardiac hypertrophy. This study uncovered the previously unknown cardioprotective effect of FGF18 mediated by the maintenance of redox homeostasis through the FYN/NOX4 signaling axis in male mice, suggesting a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of cardiac hypertrophy.
PXD037471	36871861	Cold Exposure-induced Alterations in the Brain Peptidome and Gut Microbiome Are Linked to Energy Homeostasis in Mice. 	cold exposure peptidome  of male	cold  exposure, peptidome	Energy homeostasis of mammals during cold exposure involves complicated neural regulation and is affected by gut microbiota. However, the regulatory mechanism remains unclear partially due to a lack of comprehensive knowledge of the signaling molecules involved. Herein, we performed region-resolvable quantitative profiling of the brain peptidome using cold-exposed mouse models and interrogated the interaction between gut microbes and brain peptides in response to cold. Region-specific alterations in the brain peptidome were observed during chronic cold exposure and were correlated with gut microbiome composition. Several proSAAS-derived peptides exhibited a positive correlation with Lactobacillus. The hypothalamus-pituitary axis exhibited a sensitive response to cold exposure. We obtained a candidate pool of bioactive peptides that potentially participate in the regulation of cold-induced energy homeostasis. Intervention with cold-adapted microbiota in mice decreased the abundance of hypothalamic neurokinin B and subsequently contributed to shifting the fuel source for energy consumption from lipids to glucose. Collectively, this study demonstrated that gut microbes modulate brain peptides contributing to energy metabolism, providing a data resource for understanding the regulatory mechanism of energy homeostasis upon cold exposure.
PXD040361	36872252	Accessory ESCRT-III proteins are conserved and selective regulators of Rab11a-exosome formation. 	Accessory ESCRT-III proteins are conserved and selective regulators of Rab11a-exosome formation	ESCRT/ CHMP5/ extracellular vesicle/ Rab11a-exosome/ recycling endosome	Exosomes are secreted nanovesicles with potent signalling activity that are initially formed as intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) in late Rab7-positive multivesicular endosomes, and also in recycling Rab11a-positive endosomes, particularly under some forms of nutrient stress. The core proteins of the Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport (ESCRT) participate in exosome biogenesis and ILV-mediated destruction of ubiquitinylated cargos. Accessory ESCRT-III components have reported roles in ESCRT-III-mediated vesicle scission, but their precise functions are poorly defined. They frequently only appear essential under stress. Comparative proteomics analysis of human small extracellular vesicles revealed that accessory ESCRT-III proteins, CHMP1A, CHMP1B, CHMP5 and IST1, are increased in Rab11a-enriched exosome preparations. We show that these proteins are required to form ILVs in Drosophila secondary cell recycling endosomes, but unlike core ESCRTs, they are not involved in degradation of ubiquitinylated proteins in late endosomes. Furthermore, CHMP5 knockdown in human HCT116 colorectal cancer cells selectively inhibits Rab11a-exosome production. Accessory ESCRT-III knockdown suppresses seminal fluid-mediated reproductive signalling by secondary cells and the growth-promoting activity of Rab11a-exosome-containing EVs from HCT116 cells. We conclude that accessory ESCRT-III components have a specific, ubiquitin-independent role in Rab11a-exosome generation, a mechanism that might be targeted to selectively block pro-tumorigenic activities of these vesicles in cancer.
PXD037977	36872973	Unpacking the Proteome and Metaproteome of the Black Soldier Fly Larvae: Efficacy and Complementarity of Multiple Protein Extraction Protocols. 	Dataset from The proteome landscape of the black soldier fly provides insights into protein function and microbial diversity	Black soldier fly, microbiota	The larvae of the black soldier fly (BSF), Hermetia illucens (Diptera: Stratiomyidae), have demonstrated the ability to efficiently bioconvert organic waste into a sustainable source of food and feed, but fundamental biology remains to be discovered to exploit their full biodegradative potential. Herein, LC-MS/MS was used to assess the efficiency of eight differing extraction protocols to build foundational knowledge regarding the proteome landscape of both the BSF larvae body and gut. Each protocol yielded complementary information to improve BSF proteome coverage. Protocol 8 (liquid nitrogen, defatting, and urea/thiourea/chaps) was better than all other protocols for the protein extraction from larvae gut samples, and the exclusion of defatting steps yielded the highest number of proteins for the larval body samples. Protocol-specific functional annotation using protein level information has shown that the selection of extraction buffer can affect protein detection and their associated functional classes within the measured BSF larval gut proteome. A targeted LC-MRM-MS experiment was performed on the selected enzyme subclasses to assess the influence of protocol composition using peptide abundance measurements. Metaproteome analysis of the BSF larvae gut has uncovered the prevalence of two bacterial phyla: actinobacteria and proteobacteria. We envisage that using complementary extraction protocols and investigating the proteome from the BSF body and gut separately will expand the fundamental knowledge of the BSF proteome and thereby provide translational opportunities for future research to enhance their efficiency for waste degradation and contribution to the circular economy.
PXD027239	36873846	Discovery of lipid-mediated protein-protein interactions in living cells using metabolic labeling with photoactivatable clickable probes. 	Metabolic labeling of NMT substrates by photoactivatable/clickable myristate probes X3/X8/X10	NMT, diazirine, metabolic labeling, myristoylation, photocrosslinking	Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are essential and pervasive regulatory elements in biology. Despite the development of a range of techniques to probe PPIs in living systems, there is a dearth of approaches to capture interactions driven by specific post-translational modifications (PTMs). Myristoylation is a lipid PTM added to more than 200 human proteins, where it may regulate membrane localization, stability or activity. Here we report the design and synthesis of a panel of novel photocrosslinkable and clickable myristic acid analog probes, and their characterization as efficient substrates for human N-myristoyltransferases NMT1 and NMT2, both biochemically and through X-ray crystallography. We demonstrate metabolic incorporation of probes to label NMT substrates in cell culture and in situ intracellular photoactivation to form a covalent crosslink between modified proteins and their interactors, capturing a snapshot of interactions in the presence of the lipid PTM. Proteomic analyses revealed both known and multiple novel interactors of a series of myristoylated proteins, including ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) and spliceosome-associated RNA helicase DDX46. The concept exemplified by these probes offers an efficient approach for exploring the PTM-specific interactome without the requirement for genetic modification, which may prove broadly applicable to other PTMs.
PXD039727	36874030	Dendrobium mixture ameliorates type 2 diabetes mellitus with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease through PPAR gamma: An integrated study of bioinformatics analysis and experimental verification. 	Dendrobium mixture ameliorates non-alcoholic fatty liver disease induced by type 2 diabetes mellitus through PPAR gamma: an integrated study of bioinformatics analysis and experimental verification	Dendrobium mixture, Network pharmacology, Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, TMT-based quantitative proteomics, Type 2 diabetes mellitus	Dendrobium mixture (DM) is a patented Chinese herbal medicine indicated which has anti-inflammatory and improved glycolipid metabolism. However, its active ingredients, targets of action, and potential mechanisms are still uncertain. Here, we investigate the role of DM as a prospective modulator of protection against non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) induced by type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and illustrate the molecular mechanisms potentially involved. The network pharmacology and TMT-based quantitative protomics analysis were conducted to identify potential gene targets of the active ingredients in DM against NAFLD and T2DM. DM was administered to the mice of DM group for 4 weeks, and db/m mice (control group) and db/db mice (model group) were gavaged by normal saline. DM was also given to Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, and the serum was subjected to the palmitic acid-induced HepG2 cells with abnormal lipid metabolism. The mechanism of DM protection against T2DM-NAFLD is to improve liver function and pathological morphology by promoting peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) activation, lowering blood glucose, improving insulin resistance (IR), and reducing inflammatory factors. In db/db mice, DM reduced RBG, body weight, and serum lipids levels, and significantly alleviated histological damage of liver steatosis and inflammation. It upregulated the PPARgamma corresponding to the prediction from the bioinformatics analysis. DM significantly reduced inflammation by activating PPARgamma in both db/db mice and palmitic acid-induced HepG2 cells.
PXD037222	36874092	Discovery of protein biomarkers for venous thromboembolism in non-small cell lung cancer patients through data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. 	Discovery of plasma biomarkers for venous thromboembolism in non-small cell lung cancer through data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry		Objective: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients present a high incidence of venous thromboembolism (VTE) with poor prognosis. It is crucial to identify and diagnose VTE early. The study aimed to identify potential protein biomarkers and mechanism of VTE in NSCLC patients via proteomics research. Methods: Proteomic analysis of the human plasma was performed through data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry for 20 NSCLC patients with VTE, and 15 NSCLC patients without VTE. Significantly differentially expressed proteins were analyzed by multiple bioinformatics method for further biomarker analysis. Results: A total of 280 differentially expressed proteins were identified in VTE and non-VTE patients, where 42 were upregulated and 238 were downregulated. These proteins were involved in acute-phase response, cytokine production, neutrophil migration and other biological processes related to VTE and inflammation. Five proteins including SAA1, S100A8, LBP, HP and LDHB had significant change between VTE and non-VTE patients, with the area under the curve (AUC) were 0.8067, 0.8308, 0.7767, 0.8021, 0.8533, respectively. Conclusions: SAA1, S100A8, LBP, HP and LDHB may serve as potential plasma biomarkers for diagnosis VTE in NSCLC patients.
PXD035984	36874381	The CKS1/CKS2 Proteostasis Axis Is Crucial to Maintain Hematopoietic Stem Cell Function. 	The CKS1/CKS2 proteostasis axis is crucial to maintain hematopoietic stem cell function	CKS1, CKS2, Hematopoietic Stem Cells, LSK Cells., Proteostasis	Long-term hematopoietic stem cells are rare, highly quiescent stem cells of the hematopoietic system with life-long self-renewal potential and the ability to transplant and reconstitute the entire hematopoietic system of conditioned recipients. Most of our understanding of these rare cells has relied on cell surface identification, epigenetic, and transcriptomic analyses. Our knowledge of protein synthesis, folding, modification, and degradation-broadly termed protein homeostasis or "proteostasis"-in these cells is still in its infancy, with very little known about how the functional state of the proteome is maintained in hematopoietic stem cells. We investigated the requirement of the small phospho-binding adaptor proteins, the cyclin-dependent kinase subunits (CKS1 and CKS2), for maintaining ordered hematopoiesis and long-term hematopoietic stem cell reconstitution. CKS1 and CKS2 are best known for their roles in p27 degradation and cell cycle regulation, and by studying the transcriptome and proteome of Cks1 -/- and Cks2 -/- mice, we demonstrate regulation of key signaling pathways that govern hematopoietic stem cell biology including AKT, FOXO1, and NFkappaB, together balancing protein homeostasis and restraining reactive oxygen species to ensure healthy hematopoietic stem cell function.
PXD028738	36876126	Novel canonical and non-canonical viral antigens extend current targets for immunotherapy of HPV-driven cervical cancer. 	Cervical cancer cell line panel immunopeptidomics datasets	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cervical Cancer, Human leukocyte antigen-associated peptides, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP) (B/D-HPP), cell line, immunopeptidomics	Current immunotherapeutic approaches for human papillomavirus (HPV)-driven cervical cancer target the viral oncogenes E6 and E7. We report viral canonical and alternative reading frame (ARF)-derived sequences presented on cervical tumor cells, including antigens encoded by the conserved viral gene E1. We confirm immunogenicity of the identified viral peptides in HPV-positive women, and women with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. We observe consistent transcription of the E1, E6, and E7 genes in 10 primary cervical tumor resections from the four most common high-risk HPV subtypes (HPV16, 18, 31, and 45), suggesting the suitability of E1 as therapeutic target. We finally confirm HLA presentation of canonical peptides derived from E6 and E7, and ARF-derived viral peptides from a reverse-strand transcript spanning the HPV E1 and E2 genes in primary human cervical tumor tissue. Our results extend currently known viral immunotherapeutic targets in cervical cancer and highlight E1 as an important cervical cancer antigen.
PXD039353	36877145	Large-Scale Profiling of Unexpected Tryptic Cleaved Sites at Ubiquitinated Lysines. 	Large-scale profiling of unexpected tryptic cleaved sites at ubiquitinated lysines	exopeptidase activity, irregular cleavage, trypsin, ubiquitination	Trypsin specifically cleaves the C-terminus of lysine and arginine residues but often fails to cleave modified lysines, such as ubiquitination, therefore resulting in the uncleaved K-epsilon-GG peptides. Therefore, the cleaved ubiquitinated peptide identification was often regarded as false positives and discarded. Interestingly, unexpected cleavage at the K48-linked ubiquitin chain has been reported, suggesting the latent ability of trypsin to cleave ubiquitinated lysine residues. However, it remains unclear whether other trypsin-cleavable ubiquitinated sites are present. In this study, we verified the ability of trypsin in cleaving K6 and K63 besides K48 chains. The uncleaved K-epsilon-GG peptide was quickly and efficiently generated during trypsin digestion, whereas cleaved ones were produced with much lower efficiency. Then, the K-epsilon-GG antibody was proved to efficiently enrich the cleaved K-epsilon-GG peptides and several published large-scale ubiquitylation datasets were re-analyzed to interrogate the cleaved sequence features. In total, more than 2400 cleaved ubiquitinated peptides were identified in the K-epsilon-GG and UbiSite antibody-based datasets. The frequency of lysine upstream of the cleaved modified K was significantly enriched. The kinetic activity of trypsin in cleaving ubiquitinated peptides was further elucidated. We suggest that the cleaved K-epsilon-GG sites with high post-translational modification probability (>=0.75) should be considered as true positives in future ubiquitome analyses.
PXD022578	36878054	Insights into the modes of action of tritium on the early-life stages of zebrafish, Danio rerio, using transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. 	Insights into the modes of action of tritium on zebrafish, Danio rerio, early-life stages, using proteomic analyses	Tritium, early-life stages, zebrafish Danio rerio	In the environment, populations are exposed to different kinds of ionizing radiation. Little is known about their modes of action on non-human species, and whether or not they are similar for alpha, beta and gamma radiations, considered as the reference. In this context, tritium effects (beta emitter) under the form of tritiated water (HTO) were investigated in zebrafish, a common model in toxicology and ecotoxicology with a fully sequenced genome. Experiments were conducted on early life stages, considered to be highly sensitive to pollutants, by exposing eggs to 0.4 mGy/h of HTO until 10 days post fertilization. Tritium internalization was quantified, and effects were investigated using a combined approach of transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. Results highlighted similarities in the biological pathways affected by HTO by both techniques, such as defence response, muscle integrity and contraction, and potential visual alterations. These results correlated well with previous data obtained on earlier developmental stages (1 and 4 dpf). Interestingly, HTO effects were partly overlapping those obtained after gamma irradiation, underlying potential common modes of action. This study, therefore, brought a body of evidence on the effects of HTO observed at the molecular level on zebrafish larvae. Further studies could investigate if the effects persist in adult organisms.
PXD037584	36879070	A point mutation in GPI-attachment signal peptide accelerates the development of prion disease. 	GPI-glycan structures of human Prion (M232R) from knock-in mice_LC-MSMS	Brain, GPI, GPI side chain, Prion, knock-in mouse	A missense variant from methionine to arginine at codon 232 (M232R) of the prion protein gene accounts for ~ 15% of Japanese patients with genetic prion diseases. However, pathogenic roles of the M232R substitution for the induction of prion disease have remained elusive because family history is usually absent in patients with M232R. In addition, the clinicopathologic phenotypes of patients with M232R are indistinguishable from those of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease patients. Furthermore, the M232R substitution is located in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-attachment signal peptide that is cleaved off during the maturation of prion proteins. Therefore, there has been an argument that the M232R substitution might be an uncommon polymorphism rather than a pathogenic mutation. To unveil the role of the M232R substitution in the GPI-attachment signal peptide of prion protein in the pathogenesis of prion disease, here we generated a mouse model expressing human prion proteins with M232R and investigated the susceptibility to prion disease. The M232R substitution accelerates the development of prion disease in a prion strain-dependent manner, without affecting prion strain-specific histopathologic and biochemical features. The M232R substitution did not alter the attachment of GPI nor GPI-attachment site. Instead, the substitution altered endoplasmic reticulum translocation pathway of prion proteins by reducing the hydrophobicity of the GPI-attachment signal peptide, resulting in the reduction of N-linked glycosylation and GPI glycosylation of prion proteins. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time to show a direct relationship between a point mutation in the GPI-attachment signal peptide and the development of disease.
PXD027379	36879659	High-throughput site-specific N-glycoproteomics reveals glyco-signatures for liver disease diagnosis. 	High throughput quantitative analysis of site-specific N-glycosylation reveals glyco-signatures for diagnosis of liver disease	intact N-glycopeptides, quantification	The glycoproteome has emerged as a prominent target for screening biomarkers, as altered glycosylation is a hallmark of cancer cells. In this work, we incorporated tandem mass tag labeling into quantitative glycoproteomics by developing a chemical labeling-assisted complementary dissociation method for the multiplexed analysis of intact N-glycopeptides. Benefiting from the complementary nature of two different mass spectrometry dissociation methods for identification and multiplex labeling for quantification of intact N-glycopeptides, we conducted the most comprehensive site-specific and subclass-specific N-glycosylation profiling of human serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) to date. By analysing the serum of 90 human patients with varying severities of liver diseases, as well as healthy controls, we identified that the combination of IgG1-H3N5F1 and IgG4-H4N3 can be used for distinguishing between different stages of liver diseases. Finally, we used targeted parallel reaction monitoring to successfully validate the expression changes of glycosylation in liver diseases in a different sample cohort that included 45 serum samples.
PXD032710	36879796	Proteomic profiling of IgA nephropathy reveals distinct molecular prognostic subtypes. 	IgA Nephropathy Proteome Profiling	Classification, IgA Nephropathy	IgA nephropathy (IgAN) is a heterogeneous disease, which poses a series of challenges to accurate diagnosis and personalized therapy. Herein, we constructed a systematic quantitative proteome atlas from 59 IgAN and 19 normal control donors. Consensus sub-clustering of proteomic profiles divided IgAN into three subtypes (IgAN-C1, C2, and C3). IgAN-C2 had similar proteome expression patterns with normal control, while IgAN-C1/C3 exhibited higher level of complement activation, more severe mitochondrial injury, and significant extracellular matrix accumulation. Interestingly, the complement mitochondrial extracellular matrix (CME) pathway enrichment score achieved a high diagnostic power to distinguish IgAN-C2 from IgAN-C1/C3 (AUC>0.9). In addition, the proteins related to mesangial cells, endothelial cells, and tubular interstitial fibrosis were highly expressed in IgAN-C1/C3. Most critically, IgAN-C1/C3 had a worse prognosis compared to IgAN-C2 (30% eGFR decline, p = 0.02). Altogether, we proposed a molecular subtyping and prognostic system which could help to understand IgAN heterogeneity and improve the treatment in the clinic.
PXD038133	36881336	Temporal phosphoproteomic analysis of VEGF-A signaling in HUVECs: an insight into early signaling events associated with angiogenesis. 	Temporal phosphoproteomic analysis of VEGF-A signaling in HUVECs: An insight into early signaling events associated with angiogenesis	Angiogenesis, Cytoskeleton Organization, Quantitative Phosphoproteomics, VEGF-A	Vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) is one of the primary factors promoting angiogenesis in endothelial cells. Although defects in VEGF-A signaling are linked to diverse pathophysiological conditions, the early phosphorylation-dependent signaling events pertinent to VEGF-A signaling remain poorly defined. Hence, a temporal quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis was performed in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) treated with VEGF-A-165 for 1, 5 and 10 min. This led to the identification and quantification of 1971 unique phosphopeptides corresponding to 961 phosphoproteins and 2771 phosphorylation sites in total. Specifically, 69, 153, and 133 phosphopeptides corresponding to 62, 125, and 110 phosphoproteins respectively, were temporally phosphorylated at 1, 5, and 10 min upon addition of VEGF-A. These phosphopeptides included 14 kinases, among others. This study also captured the phosphosignaling events directed through RAC, FAK, PI3K-AKT-MTOR, ERK, and P38 MAPK modules with reference to our previously assembled VEGF-A/VEGFR2 signaling pathway map in HUVECs. Apart from a significant enrichment of biological processes such as cytoskeleton organization and actin filament binding, our results also suggest a role of AAK1-AP2M1 in the regulation of VEGFR endocytosis. Taken together, the temporal quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis of VEGF signaling in HUVECs revealed early signaling events and we believe that this analysis will serve as a starting point for the analysis of differential signaling across VEGF members toward the full elucidation of their role in the angiogenesis processes. Workflow for the identification of early phosphorylation events induced by VEGF-A-165 in HUVEC cells.
PXD034470	36881772	LncRNA HOTAIRM1 functions in DNA double-strand break repair via its association with DNA repair and mRNA surveillance factors. 	lncRNA HOTAIRM1 Coordinates with RNA Processing Factors in DNA Damage Repair	LC/MS/MS based proteomics	The eukaryotic exon junction complex component Y14 participates in double-strand break (DSB) repair via its RNA-dependent interaction with the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) complex. Using immunoprecipitation-RNA-seq, we identified a set of Y14-associated long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). The lncRNA HOTAIRM1 serves as a strong candidate that mediates the interaction between Y14 and the NHEJ complex. HOTAIRM1 localized to near ultraviolet laser-induced DNA damage sites. Depletion of HOTAIRM1 delayed the recruitment of DNA damage response and repair factors to DNA lesions and compromised the efficiency of NHEJ-mediated DSB repair. Identification of the HOTAIRM1 interactome revealed a large set of RNA processing factors including mRNA surveillance factors. The surveillance factors Upf1 and SMG6 localized to DNA damage sites in a HOTAIRM1-dependent manner. Depletion of Upf1 or SMG6 increased the level of DSB-induced non-coding transcripts at damaged sites, indicating a pivotal role for Upf1/SMG6-mediated RNA degradation in DNA repair. We conclude that HOTAIRM1 serves as an assembly scaffold for both DNA repair and mRNA surveillance factors that act in concert to repair DSBs.
PXD033204	36882009	Alterations in the Proteome of Developing Neocortical Synaptosomes in the Absence of MET Signaling Revealed by Comparative Proteomics. 	Region-specific alterations in the developing synaptosomal proteome in the absence of MET signaling	MET, iTRAQ, neocortex, striatum, synaptosomes	Alterations in the expression of genes encoding proteins involved in synapse formation, maturation, and function are a hallmark of many neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders. For example, there is reduced neocortical expression of the MET receptor tyrosine kinase (MET) transcript and protein in Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Rett syndrome. Preclinical in vivo and in vitro models manipulating MET signaling reveal that the receptor modulates excitatory synapse development and maturation in select forebrain circuits. The molecular adaptations underlying the altered synaptic development remain unknown. We performed a comparative mass spectrometry analysis of synaptosomes generated from the neocortex of wild type and Met null mice during the peak of synaptogenesis (postnatal day 14; data are available from ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033204). The analyses revealed broad disruption of the developing synaptic proteome in the absence of MET, consistent with the localization of MET protein in pre- and postsynaptic compartments, including proteins associated with the neocortical synaptic MET interactome and those encoded by syndromic and ASD risk genes. In addition to an overrepresentation of altered proteins associated with the SNARE complex, multiple proteins in the ubiquitin-proteasome system and associated with the synaptic vesicle, as well as proteins that regulate actin filament organization and synaptic vesicle exocytosis/endocytosis, were disrupted. Taken together, the proteomic changes are consistent with structural and functional changes observed following alterations in MET signaling. We hypothesize that the molecular adaptations following Met deletion may reflect a general mechanism that produces circuit-specific molecular changes due to loss or reduction of synaptic signaling proteins.
PXD026985	36882085	Dynamic interplay between RPL3- and RPL3L-containing ribosomes modulates mitochondrial activity in the mammalian heart. 	The role of Rpl3l in translation in cardiomyocytes	Cardiomyocytes, Rpl3, Rpl3l	The existence of naturally occurring ribosome heterogeneity is now a well-acknowledged phenomenon. However, whether this heterogeneity leads to functionally diverse 'specialized ribosomes' is still a controversial topic. Here, we explore the biological function of RPL3L (uL3L), a ribosomal protein (RP) paralogue of RPL3 (uL3) that is exclusively expressed in skeletal muscle and heart tissues, by generating a viable homozygous Rpl3l knockout mouse strain. We identify a rescue mechanism in which, upon RPL3L depletion, RPL3 becomes up-regulated, yielding RPL3-containing ribosomes instead of RPL3L-containing ribosomes that are typically found in cardiomyocytes. Using both ribosome profiling (Ribo-seq) and a novel orthogonal approach consisting of ribosome pulldown coupled to nanopore sequencing (Nano-TRAP), we find that RPL3L modulates neither translational efficiency nor ribosome affinity towards a specific subset of transcripts. In contrast, we show that depletion of RPL3L leads to increased ribosome-mitochondria interactions in cardiomyocytes, which is accompanied by a significant increase in ATP levels, potentially as a result of fine-tuning of mitochondrial activity. Our results demonstrate that the existence of tissue-specific RP paralogues does not necessarily lead to enhanced translation of specific transcripts or modulation of translational output. Instead, we reveal a complex cellular scenario in which RPL3L modulates the expression of RPL3, which in turn affects ribosomal subcellular localization and, ultimately, mitochondrial activity.
PXD037732	36882410	CircRNA DICAR as a novel endogenous regulator for diabetic cardiomyopathy and diabetic pyroptosis of cardiomyocytes. 	DICAR+/- mouse heart Label free LC-MS	Heart	In this study, we identified that a conserved circular RNA (circRNA) DICAR, which was downregulated in diabetic mouse hearts. DICAR had an inhibitory effect on diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), as the spontaneous cardiac dysfunction, cardiac cell hypertrophy, and cardiac fibrosis occurred in DICAR deficiency (DICAR(+/-)) mice, whereas the DCM was alleviated in DICAR-overexpressed DICAR(Tg) mice. At the cellular level, we found that overexpression of DICAR inhibited, but knockdown of DICAR enhanced the diabetic cardiomyocyte pyroptosis. At the molecular level, we identified that DICAR-VCP-Med12 degradation could be the underlying molecular mechanism in DICAR-mediated effects. The synthesized DICAR junction part (DICAR-JP) exhibited a similar effect to the entire DICAR. In addition, the expression of DICAR in circulating blood cells and plasma from diabetic patients was lower than that from health controls, which was consistent with the decreased DICAR expression in diabetic hearts. DICAR and the synthesized DICAR-JP may be drug candidates for DCM.
PXD037288	36882786	Opposite and dynamic regulation of the interferon response in metastatic and non-metastatic breast cancer. 	Proteomics profiling in primary tumors of metastatic and non-metastatic breast cancers	LCMS, LFQ, MS, Metastatic, breast, cancer, non-metastatic	BACKGROUND: To our current understanding, solid tumors depend on suppressed local immune reactions, often elicited by the interaction between tumor cells and tumor microenvironment (TME) components. Despite an improved understanding of anti-cancer immune responses in the TME, it is still unclear how immuno-suppressive TME are formed and how some cancer cells survive and metastasize. METHODS: To identify the major adaptations that cancer cells undergo during tumor development and progression, we compared the transcriptome and proteome from metastatic 66cl4 and non-metastatic 67NR cell lines in culture versus their corresponding mouse mammary primary tumors. Using confocal microscopy, RT-qPCR, flow cytometry and western blotting, we studied the signaling pathway and the mechanisms involved. In addition, we used public gene expression data from human breast cancer biopsies to evaluate the correlation between gene expression and clinical outcomes in patients. RESULTS: We found that type I interferon (IFN-I) response was a key differentially regulated pathway between metastatic and non-metastatic cell lines and tumors. The IFN-I response was active in metastatic cancer cells in culture and markedly dampened when these cells formed primary tumors. Interestingly, the opposite was observed in non-metastatic cancer cells and tumors. Consistent with an active IFN-I response in culture, the metastatic cancer cells displayed elevated levels of cytosolic DNA from both mitochondria and ruptured micronuclei with concomitant activation of cGAS-STING signaling. Interestingly, decreased IFN-I-related gene expression in breast cancer biopsies correlated with an unfavourable prognosis in patients. CONCLUSION: Our findings show that IFN-I response is dampened in the tumors with the metastatic ability and lower IFN-I expression predicts poor prognosis in triple-negative and HER2 enriched breast cancer patients. This study highlights the possibility of reactivating the IFN-I response as a potential therapeutic strategy in breast cancer. Video Abstract.
PXD039001	36882843	Long non-coding RNA H19 regulates matrisome signature and impacts cell behavior on MSC-engineered extracellular matrices. 	Long non-coding RNA H19 regulates matrisome signature and impacts cell behavior on MSC-engineered extracellular matrices	bone extracellular matrix, decellularization, fragility fractures, gene therapy, non-coding RNAs	BACKGROUND: The vast and promising class of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) has been under investigation for distinct therapeutic applications. Nevertheless, their role as molecular drivers of bone regeneration remains poorly studied. The lncRNA H19 mediates osteogenic differentiation of Mesenchymal Stem/Stromal Cells (MSCs) through the control of intracellular pathways. However, the effect of H19 on the extracellular matrix (ECM) components is still largely unknown. This research study was designed to decode the H19-mediated ECM regulatory network, and to reveal how the decellularized siH19-engineered matrices influence MSC proliferation and fate. This is particularly relevant for diseases in which the ECM regulation and remodeling processes are disrupted, such as osteoporosis. METHODS: Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics analysis was used to identify ECM components, after oligonucleotides delivery to osteoporosis-derived hMSCs. Moreover, qRT-PCR, immunofluorescence and proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis assays were performed. Engineered matrices were decellularized, characterized by atomic force microscopy and repopulated with hMSC and pre-adipocytes. Clinical bone samples were characterized by histomorphometry analysis. RESULTS: Our study provides an in-depth proteome-wide and matrisome-specific analysis of the ECM proteins controlled by the lncRNA H19. Using bone marrow-isolated MSC from patients with osteoporosis, we identified fibrillin-1 (FBN1), vitronectin (VTN) and collagen triple helix repeat containing 1 (CTHRC1), among others, as having different pattern levels following H19 silencing. Decellularized siH19-engineered matrices are less dense and have a decreased collagen content compared with control matrices. Repopulation with naive MSCs promotes a shift towards the adipogenic lineage in detriment of the osteogenic lineage and inhibits proliferation. In pre-adipocytes, these siH19-matrices enhance lipid droplets formation. Mechanistically, H19 is targeted by miR-29c, whose expression is decreased in osteoporotic bone clinical samples. Accordingly, miR-29c impacts MSC proliferation and collagen production, but does not influence ALP staining or mineralization, revealing that H19 silencing and miR-29c mimics have complementary but not overlapping functions. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest H19 as a therapeutic target to engineer the bone ECM and to control cell behavior.
PXD034057	36882871	Deficits in mitochondrial TCA cycle and OXPHOS precede rod photoreceptor degeneration during chronic HIF activation. 	Chronic hypoxic response in rod photoreceptors	hypoxia, rod photoreceptor	BACKGROUND: Major retinal degenerative diseases, including age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy and retinal detachment, are associated with a local decrease in oxygen availability causing the formation of hypoxic areas affecting the photoreceptor (PR) cells. Here, we addressed the underlying pathological mechanisms of PR degeneration by focusing on energy metabolism during chronic activation of hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) in rod PR. METHODS: We used two-photon laser scanning microscopy (TPLSM) of genetically encoded biosensors delivered by adeno-associated viruses (AAV) to determine lactate and glucose dynamics in PR and inner retinal cells. Retinal layer-specific proteomics, in situ enzymatic assays and immunofluorescence studies were used to analyse mitochondrial metabolism in rod PRs during chronic HIF activation. RESULTS: PRs exhibited remarkably higher glycolytic flux through the hexokinases than neurons of the inner retina. Chronic HIF activation in rods did not cause overt change in glucose dynamics but an increase in lactate production nonetheless. Furthermore, dysregulation of the oxidative phosphorylation pathway (OXPHOS) and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle in rods with an activated hypoxic response decelerated cellular anabolism causing shortening of rod photoreceptor outer segments (OS) before onset of cell degeneration. Interestingly, rods with deficient OXPHOS but an intact TCA cycle did not exhibit these early signs of anabolic dysregulation and showed a slower course of degeneration. CONCLUSION: Together, these data indicate an exceeding high glycolytic flux in rods and highlight the importance of mitochondrial metabolism and especially of the TCA cycle for PR survival in conditions of increased HIF activity.
PXD039952	36882937	Comparison of Pairwise Venous and Fingertip Plasma Using Quantitative Proteomics Based on Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Comparison of pairwise venous and fingertip plasma using quantitative proteomics based on DIA	clinical test, fingertip plasma, venous plasma	Blood contains a great deal of health-related information and can be used to monitor human health status. Clinically, venous or fingertip blood is usually used for blood tests. However, the clinical application settings of the two sources of blood are unclear. In this study, the proteomes of pairwise venous plasma (VP) and fingertip plasma (FP) were analyzed, and the levels of 3797 proteins were compared between VP and FP. The Spearman's correlation coefficient for the relationship between protein levels of VP and FP ranges from 0.64 to 0.78 (p < 0.0001). The common pathways of VP and FP are related to cell-cell adhesion, protein stabilization, innate immune response, and complement activation, the classical pathway. The VP-overrepresented pathway is related to actin filament organization, while the FP-overrepresented pathway is related to the hydrogen peroxide catabolic process. ADAMTSL4, ADIPOQ, HIBADH, and XPO5 both in VP and FP are potential gender-related proteins. Notably, the VP proteome has a higher interpretation on age than the FP proteome, and CD14 is a potential age-related protein in VP but not in FP. Our study mapped the different proteomes between VP and FP, which can provide value for the standardization of clinical blood tests.
PXD037377	36882943	Degradation mechanism of AtrA mediated by ClpXP and its application in daptomycin production in Streptomyces roseosporus. 	Degradation mechanism of important regulator AtrA mediated by ClpXP in Streptomyces roseosporus	Daptomycin, Proteasome, Streptomyces roesosporus	The efficiency of drug biosynthesis depends on different transcriptional regulatory pathways in Streptomyces, and the protein degradation system adds another layer of complexity to the regulatory processes. AtrA, a transcriptional regulator in the A-factor regulatory cascade, stimulates the production of daptomycin by binding to the dptE promoter in Streptomyces roseosporus. Using pull-down assays, bacterial two-hybrid system and knockout verification, we demonstrated that AtrA is a substrate for ClpP protease. Furthermore, we showed that ClpX is necessary for AtrA recognition and subsequent degradation. Bioinformatics analysis, truncating mutation, and overexpression proved that the AAA motifs of AtrA were essential for initial recognition in the degradation process. Finally, overexpression of mutated atrA (AAA-QQQ) in S. roseosporus increased the yield of daptomycin by 225% in shake flask and by 164% in the 15 L bioreactor. Thus, improving the stability of key regulators is an effective method to promote the ability of antibiotic synthesis.
PXD033773	36883446	Integrated Proteomics Unveils Nuclear PDE3A2 as a Regulator of Cardiac Myocyte Hypertrophy. 	Integrated proteomics unveils regulation of cardiac myocytes hypertrophic growth by a nuclear cAMP nanodomain under the control of PDE3A	adrenegic, cAMP, hypertrophy, phosphodiesterases, sympathetic	BACKGROUND: Signaling by cAMP is organized in multiple distinct subcellular nanodomains regulated by cAMP-hydrolyzing PDEs (phosphodiesterases). Cardiac beta-adrenergic signaling has served as the prototypical system to elucidate cAMP compartmentalization. Although studies in cardiac myocytes have provided an understanding of the location and properties of a handful of cAMP subcellular compartments, an overall view of the cellular landscape of cAMP nanodomains is missing. METHODS: Here, we combined an integrated phosphoproteomics approach that takes advantage of the unique role that individual PDEs play in the control of local cAMP, with network analysis to identify previously unrecognized cAMP nanodomains associated with beta-adrenergic stimulation. We then validated the composition and function of one of these nanodomains using biochemical, pharmacological, and genetic approaches and cardiac myocytes from both rodents and humans. RESULTS: We demonstrate the validity of the integrated phosphoproteomic strategy to pinpoint the location and provide critical cues to determine the function of previously unknown cAMP nanodomains. We characterize in detail one such compartment and demonstrate that the PDE3A2 isoform operates in a nuclear nanodomain that involves SMAD4 (SMAD family member 4) and HDAC-1 (histone deacetylase 1). Inhibition of PDE3 results in increased HDAC-1 phosphorylation, leading to inhibition of its deacetylase activity, derepression of gene transcription, and cardiac myocyte hypertrophic growth. CONCLUSIONS: We developed a strategy for detailed mapping of subcellular PDE-specific cAMP nanodomains. Our findings reveal a mechanism that explains the negative long-term clinical outcome observed in patients with heart failure treated with PDE3 inhibitors.
PXD034118	36889310	Redox proteomics combined with proximity labeling enables monitoring of localized cysteine oxidation in cells. 	Combining redox proteomics with proximity labeling to monitor localized cysteine oxidation	APEX, Cysteine oxidation, OxICAT, TurboID, proximity labeling, reactive oxygen species	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) can modulate protein function through cysteine oxidation. Identifying protein targets of ROS can provide insight into uncharacterized ROS-regulated pathways. Several redox-proteomic workflows, such as oxidative isotope-coded affinity tags (OxICAT), exist to identify sites of cysteine oxidation. However, determining ROS targets localized within subcellular compartments and ROS hotspots remains challenging with existing workflows. Here, we present a chemoproteomic platform, PL-OxICAT, which combines proximity labeling (PL) with OxICAT to monitor localized cysteine oxidation events. We show that TurboID-based PL-OxICAT can monitor cysteine oxidation events within subcellular compartments such as the mitochondrial matrix and intermembrane space. Furthermore, we use ascorbate peroxidase (APEX)-based PL-OxICAT to monitor oxidation events within ROS hotspots by using endogenous ROS as the source of peroxide for APEX activation. Together, these platforms further hone our ability to monitor cysteine oxidation events within specific subcellular locations and ROS hotspots and provide a deeper understanding of the protein targets of endogenous and exogenous ROS.
PXD038932	36890204	Development and validation of a method for analyzing the sialylated glycopeptides of recombinant erythropoietin in urine using LC-HRMS. 	Development and validation of a method for analyzing the sialylated glycopeptides of recombinant erythropoietin in urine using LC-HRMS	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, doping control, erythropoietin, liquid chromatography, sialylated glycopeptides	Erythropoietin (EPO) is a glycoprotein hormone that stimulates red blood cell production. It is produced naturally in the body and is used to treat patients with anemia. Recombinant EPO (rEPO) is used illicitly in sports to improve performance by increasing the blood's capacity to carry oxygen. The World Anti-Doping Agency has therefore prohibited the use of rEPO. In this study, we developed a bottom-up mass spectrometric method for profiling the site-specific N-glycosylation of rEPO. We revealed that intact glycopeptides have a site-specific tetra-sialic glycan structure. Using this structure as an exogenous marker, we developed a method for use in doping studies. The profiling of rEPO N-glycopeptides revealed the presence of tri- and tetra-sialylated N-glycopeptides. By selecting a peptide with a tetra-sialic acid structure as the target, its limit of detection (LOD) was estimated to be < 500 pg/mL. Furthermore, we confirmed the detection of the target rEPO glycopeptide using three other rEPO products. We additionally validated the linearity, carryover, selectivity, matrix effect, LOD, and intraday precision of this method. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of a doping analysis using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry-based detection of the rEPO glycopeptide with a tetra-sialic acid structure in human urine samples.
PXD033873	36890234	Molecular sensing of mechano- and ligand-dependent adhesion GPCR dissociation. 	Cirl Interactome in Drososphila	AP-MS, Adhesion GPCR, Cirl, Interactome, LC-MS, Tollo	Adhesion G-protein-coupled receptors (aGPCRs) bear notable similarity to Notch proteins(1), a class of surface receptors poised for mechano-proteolytic activation(2-4), including an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of cleavage(5-8). However, so far there is no unifying explanation for why aGPCRs are autoproteolytically processed. Here we introduce a genetically encoded sensor system to detect the dissociation events of aGPCR heterodimers into their constituent N-terminal and C-terminal fragments (NTFs and CTFs, respectively). An NTF release sensor (NRS) of the neural latrophilin-type aGPCR Cirl (ADGRL)(9-11), from Drosophila melanogaster, is stimulated by mechanical force. Cirl-NRS activation indicates that receptor dissociation occurs in neurons and cortex glial cells. The release of NTFs from cortex glial cells requires trans-interaction between Cirl and its ligand, the Toll-like receptor Tollo (Toll-8)(12), on neural progenitor cells, whereas expressing Cirl and Tollo in cis suppresses dissociation of the aGPCR. This interaction is necessary to control the size of the neuroblast pool in the central nervous system. We conclude that receptor autoproteolysis enables non-cell-autonomous activities of aGPCRs, and that the dissociation of aGPCRs is controlled by their ligand expression profile and by mechanical force. The NRS system will be helpful in elucidating the physiological roles and signal modulators of aGPCRs, which constitute a large untapped reservoir of drug targets for cardiovascular, immune, neuropsychiatric and neoplastic diseases(13).
PXD035881	36890585	Neurofibromatosis type 1-dependent alterations in mouse microglia function are not cell-intrinsic. 	Neurofibromatosis type 1-dependent alterations in mouse microglia function are not cell-intrinsic	NF1, cortex, genetically engineered mice, microglia, neurofibromin, purinergic signaling, sex differences	We previously discovered a sex-by-genotype defect in microglia function using a heterozygous germline knockout mouse model of Neurofibromatosis type 1 (Nf1 +/- mice), in which only microglia from male Nf1 +/- mice exhibited defects in purinergic signaling. Herein, we leveraged an unbiased proteomic approach to demonstrate that male, but not female, heterozygous Nf1 +/- microglia exhibit differences in protein expression, which largely reflect pathways involved in cytoskeletal organization. In keeping with these predicted defects in cytoskeletal function, only male Nf1 +/- microglia had reduced process arborization and surveillance capacity. To determine whether these microglial defects were cell autonomous or reflected adaptive responses to Nf1 heterozygosity in other cells in the brain, we generated conditional microglia Nf1-mutant knockout mice by intercrossing Nf1(flox/flox) with Cx3cr1-Cre(ER) mice (Nf1(flox/wt); Cx3cr1-Cre(ER) mice, Nf1(MG) +/- mice). Surprisingly, neither male nor female Nf1(MG) +/- mouse microglia had impaired process arborization or surveillance capacity. In contrast, when Nf1 heterozygosity was generated in neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes by intercrossing Nf1(flox/flox) with hGFAP-Cre mice (Nf1(flox/wt); hGFAP-Cre mice, Nf1(GFAP) +/- mice), the microglia defects found in Nf1 +/- mice were recapitulated. Collectively, these data reveal that Nf1 +/- sexually dimorphic microglia abnormalities are likely not cell-intrinsic properties, but rather reflect a response to Nf1 heterozygosity in other brain cells.
PXD038776	36890818	Proteomic quantification of receptor tyrosine kinases involved in the development and progression of colorectal cancer liver metastasis. 	Quantitative LC-MS/MS Proteomics of human liver microsomes (healthy controls and normal-tumour from cancer patients)	healthy controls and normal-tumour livers from cancer patients, quantitative proteomics	Introduction: Alterations in expression and activity of human receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) are associated with cancer progression and in response to therapeutic intervention. Methods: Thus, protein abundance of 21 RTKs was assessed in 15 healthy and 18 cancerous liver samples [2 primary and 16 colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRLM)] matched with non-tumorous (histologically normal) tissue, by a validated QconCAT-based targeted proteomic approach. Results: It was demonstrated, for the first time, that the abundance of EGFR, INSR, VGFR3 and AXL, is lower in tumours relative to livers from healthy individuals whilst the opposite is true for IGF1R. EPHA2 was upregulated in tumour compared with histologically normal tissue surrounding it. PGFRB levels were higher in tumours relative to both histologically normal tissue surrounding tumour and tissues taken from healthy individuals. The abundances of VGFR1/2, PGFRA, KIT, CSF1R, FLT3, FGFR1/3, ERBB2, NTRK2, TIE2, RET, and MET were, however, comparable in all samples. Statistically significant, but moderate correlations were observed (Rs > 0.50, p < 0.05) for EGFR with INSR and KIT. FGFR2 correlated with PGFRA and VGFR1 with NTRK2 in healthy livers. In non-tumorous (histologically normal) tissues from cancer patients, there were correlations between TIE2 and FGFR1, EPHA2 and VGFR3, FGFR3 and PGFRA (p < 0.05). EGFR correlated with INSR, ERBB2, KIT and EGFR, and KIT with AXL and FGFR2. In tumours, CSF1R correlated with AXL, EPHA2 with PGFRA, and NTRK2 with PGFRB and AXL. Sex, liver lobe and body mass index of donors had no impact on the abundance of RTKs, although donor age showed some correlations. RET was the most abundant of these kinases in non-tumorous tissues (~35%), while PGFRB was the most abundant RTK in tumours (~47%). Several correlations were also observed between the abundance of RTKs and proteins relevant to drug pharmacokinetics (enzymes and transporters). Discussion: DiscussionThis study quantified perturbation to the abundance of several RTKs in cancer and the value generated in this study can be used as input to systems biology models defining liver cancer metastases and biomarkers of its progression.
PXD040154	36891162	Fluorescence and antioxidant activity of heterologous expression of phycocyanin and allophycocyanin from Arthrospira platensis. 	Phycocyanin-Allophycocyanin LC-MSMS	Allophycocyanin, Arthrospira, Escherichia coli, Phycocyanin	Phycocyanin and allophycocyanin are important active substances in Arthrospira platensis, because of their fluorescent characteristic and antioxidant capacity. In order to solve the problem of insufficient production and inconvenient modification of natural protein, recombinant expression was performed and the fluorescence activity and antioxidant activity was analyzed to meet the demand for phycocyanin and allophycocyanin. A total of seven recombinant strains were constructed in this study, including individual phycocyanin or allophycocyanin, co-expression of phycocyanin-allophycocyanin, and their co-expression with chromophore, and the expression strain for individual chromophore. Different molecular weights of phycocyanin and allophycocyanin were detected in the recombinant strains, which indicated the different polymers expressed. Through mass spectrometry identification, phycocyanin and allophycocyanin may form a dimer of 66 kDa and a polymer of 300 kDa. The results of fluorescence detection showed that phycocyanin and allophycocyanin combined with phycocyanobilin to show fluorescence activity. The fluorescence peak of recombinant phycocyanin was mainly concentrated at 640 nm, which was similar to natural phycocyanin, the fluorescence peak of purified recombinant allophycocyanin was at about 642 nm. The fluorescence peak of the co-expressed recombinant phycocyanin-allophycocyanin is located at 640 nm, and the fluorescence intensity is between the recombinant phycocyanin and the recombinant allophycocyanin. After purification, the fluorescence peak of the recombinant phycocyanin is more concentrated and the fluorescence intensity is higher, which is about 1.3 times of recombinant phycocyanin-allophycocyanin, 2.8 times of recombinant allophycocyanin, indicating that phycocyanin may be more suitable to be used as fluorescence probe in medicine. The antioxidant capacity was measured by using total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) and DPPH (2,2'-diphenyl-1-triphenylhydrazino) free radical scavenging method, and the recombinant phycobiliprotein showed antioxidant activity. Phycocyanobilin also has certain antioxidant activity and could enhance the antioxidant activity of phycobiliprotein to a certain extent. Recombinant phycocyanin-allophycocyanin polymer has stronger T-AOC, which is about 1.17-2.25 times that of the other five recombinant proteins. And recombinant phycocyanin has stronger DPPH antioxidant activity, which is about 1.2-2.5 times that of the other five recombinant proteins. This study laid the foundation for the application of recombinant phycocyanin and allophycocyanin in medical detection and drug development.
PXD039680	36891514	Identification of protein candidates in spermatozoa of water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) bulls helps in predicting their fertility status. 	Identification of protein candidates in spermatozoa of water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) bulls helps in predicting their fertility status	Conception rate, Differentially abundant proteins, Fertility, Spermatozoa	The water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) is an indispensable part of the Indian dairy sector and in several instances, the farmers incur economic losses due to failed pregnancy after artificial insemination (AI). One of the key factors for the failure of conception is the use of semen from the bulls of low fertilizing potential and hence, it becomes important to predict the fertility status before performing AI. In this study, the global proteomic profile of high fertile (HF) and low fertile (LF) buffalo bull spermatozoa was established using a high-throughput LC-MS/MS technique. A total of 1,385 proteins (>=1 high-quality PSM/s, >=1 unique peptides, p < 0.05, FDR < 0.01) were identified out of which, 1,002 were common between both the HF and LF groups while 288 and 95 proteins were unique to HF and LF groups respectively. We observed 211 and 342 proteins were significantly high (log Fc >= 2) and low abundant (log Fc <= 0.5) in HF spermatozoa (p < 0.05). Gene ontology analysis revealed that the fertility associated high abundant proteins in HF were involved in spermatogenesis, sperm motility, acrosome integrity, zona pellucida binding and other associated sperm functions. Besides this, the low abundant proteins in HF were involved in glycolysis, fatty acid degradation and inflammation. Furthermore, fertility related differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) on sperm viz., AKAP3, Sp17, and DLD were validated through Western blotting and immunocytochemistry which was in coherence with the LC-MS/MS data. The DAPs identified in this study may be used as potential protein candidates for predicting fertility in buffaloes. Our findings provide an opportunity in mitigating the economic losses that farmers incur due to male infertility.
PXD024107	36892629	Periostin as a blood biomarker of muscle cell fibrosis, cardiomyopathy and disease severity in myotonic dystrophy type 1. 	Periostin as a blood biomarker of muscle cell fibrosis, cardiomyopathy and disease severity in myotonic dystrophy type 1 	CTG-trinucleotide expansion, DM1 biomarker, DMPK, DMSXL, Steinert's disease, clinical proteomics	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is the most common form of adult-onset muscular dystrophy and is caused by an repeat expansion [r(CUG)(exp)] located in the 3' untranslated region of the DMPK gene. Symptoms include skeletal and cardiac muscle dysfunction and fibrosis. In DM1, there is a lack of established biomarkers in routine clinical practice. Thus, we aimed to identify a blood biomarker with relevance for DM1-pathophysiology and clinical presentation. METHODS: We collected fibroblasts from 11, skeletal muscles from 27, and blood samples from 158 DM1 patients. Moreover, serum, cardiac, and skeletal muscle samples from DMSXL mice were included. We employed proteomics, immunostaining, qPCR and ELISA. Periostin level were correlated with CMRI-data available for some patients. RESULTS: Our studies identified Periostin, a modulator of fibrosis, as a novel biomarker candidate for DM1: proteomic profiling of human fibroblasts and murine skeletal muscles showed significant dysregulation of Periostin. Immunostaining on skeletal and cardiac muscles from DM1 patients and DMSXL mice showed an extracellular increase of Periostin, indicating fibrosis. qPCR studies indicated increased POSTN expression in fibroblasts and muscle. Quantification of Periostin in blood samples from DMSXL mice and two large validation cohorts of DM1 patients showed decreased levels in animals and diseased individuals correlating with repeat expansion and disease severity and presence of cardiac symptoms identified by MRI. Analyses of longitudinal blood samples revealed no correlation with disease progression. CONCLUSIONS: Periostin might serve as a novel stratification biomarker for DM1 correlating with disease severity, presence of cardiac malfunction and fibrosis.
PXD039780	36893262	Lysosome-targeted multifunctional lipid probes reveal the sterol transporter NPC1 as a sphingosine interactor. 	Identification of proteins crosslinked to lysosomal sphingosine and cholesterol probes	click chemistry, lysosomal lipids, photoaffinity labelling	Lysosomes are catabolic organelles involved in macromolecular digestion, and their dysfunction is associated with pathologies ranging from lysosomal storage disorders to common neurodegenerative diseases, many of which have lipid accumulation phenotypes. The mechanism of lipid efflux from lysosomes is well understood for cholesterol, while the export of other lipids, particularly sphingosine, is less well studied. To overcome this knowledge gap, we have developed functionalized sphingosine and cholesterol probes that allow us to follow their metabolism, protein interactions, and their subcellular localization. These probes feature a modified cage group for lysosomal targeting and controlled release of the active lipids with high temporal precision. An additional photocrosslinkable group allowed for the discovery of lysosomal interactors for both sphingosine and cholesterol. In this way, we found that two lysosomal cholesterol transporters, NPC1 and to a lesser extent LIMP-2/SCARB2, bind to sphingosine and showed that their absence leads to lysosomal sphingosine accumulation which hints at a sphingosine transport role of both proteins. Furthermore, artificial elevation of lysosomal sphingosine levels impaired cholesterol efflux, consistent with sphingosine and cholesterol sharing a common export mechanism.
PXD039738	36893755	Choroid plexus-targeted NKCC1 overexpression to treat post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus. 	Choroid plexus targeted gene therapy for the treatment of post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus	Mouse plasma proteomics, liquid chromatography	Post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH) refers to a life-threatening accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that occurs following intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH). An incomplete understanding of this variably progressive condition has hampered the development of new therapies beyond serial neurosurgical interventions. Here, we show a key role for the bidirectional Na-K-Cl cotransporter, NKCC1, in the choroid plexus (ChP) to mitigate PHH. Mimicking IVH with intraventricular blood led to increased CSF [K(+)] and triggered cytosolic calcium activity in ChP epithelial cells, which was followed by NKCC1 activation. ChP-targeted adeno-associated viral (AAV)-NKCC1 prevented blood-induced ventriculomegaly and led to persistently increased CSF clearance capacity. These data demonstrate that intraventricular blood triggered a trans-choroidal, NKCC1-dependent CSF clearance mechanism. Inactive, phosphodeficient AAV-NKCC1-NT51 failed to mitigate ventriculomegaly. Excessive CSF [K(+)] fluctuations correlated with permanent shunting outcome in humans following hemorrhagic stroke, suggesting targeted gene therapy as a potential treatment to mitigate intracranial fluid accumulation following hemorrhage.
PXD039867	36893757	Oxygen toxicity causes cyclic damage by destabilizing specific Fe-S cluster-containing protein complexes. 	Oxygen Toxicity Causes Cyclic Damage by Destabilizing Specific Fe-S Cluster-Containing Protein Complexes	hyperoxia, iron-sulfur cluster, lung	Oxygen is toxic across all three domains of life. Yet, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we systematically investigate the major cellular pathways affected by excess molecular oxygen. We find that hyperoxia destabilizes a specific subset of Fe-S cluster (ISC)-containing proteins, resulting in impaired diphthamide synthesis, purine metabolism, nucleotide excision repair, and electron transport chain (ETC) function. Our findings translate to primary human lung cells and a mouse model of pulmonary oxygen toxicity. We demonstrate that the ETC is the most vulnerable to damage, resulting in decreased mitochondrial oxygen consumption. This leads to further tissue hyperoxia and cyclic damage of the additional ISC-containing pathways. In support of this model, primary ETC dysfunction in the Ndufs4 KO mouse model causes lung tissue hyperoxia and dramatically increases sensitivity to hyperoxia-mediated ISC damage. This work has important implications for hyperoxia pathologies, including bronchopulmonary dysplasia, ischemia-reperfusion injury, aging, and mitochondrial disorders.
PXD040298	36894562	Deacetylation induced nuclear condensation of HP1gamma promotes multiple myeloma drug resistance. 	Deacetylation Induced Nuclear Condensation of HP1gamma Promotes Multiple Myeloma Drug Resistance	DNA repair, HP1gamma, Multiple Myeloma, Protein acetylation	Acquired chemoresistance to proteasome inhibitors is a major obstacle in managing multiple myeloma but key regulators and underlying mechanisms still remain to be explored. We find that high level of HP1gamma is associated with low acetylation modification in the bortezomib-resistant myeloma cells using SILAC-based acetyl-proteomics assay, and higher HP1gamma level is positively correlated with poorer outcomes in the clinic. Mechanistically, elevated HDAC1 in the bortezomib-resistant myeloma cells deacetylates HP1gamma at lysine 5 and consequently alleviates the ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation, as well as the aberrant DNA repair capacity. HP1gamma interacts with the MDC1 to induce DNA repair, and simultaneously the deacetylation modification and the interaction with MDC1 enhance the nuclear condensation of HP1gamma protein and the chromatin accessibility of its target genes governing sensitivity to proteasome inhibitors, such as CD40, FOS and JUN. Thus, targeting HP1gamma stability by using HDAC1 inhibitor re-sensitizes bortezomib-resistant myeloma cells to proteasome inhibitors treatment in vitro and in vivo. Our findings elucidate a previously unrecognized role of HP1gamma in inducing drug resistance to proteasome inhibitors of myeloma cells and suggest that targeting HP1gamma may be efficacious for overcoming drug resistance in refractory or relapsed multiple myeloma patients.
PXD038565	36894639	Disrupting the phase separation of KAT8-IRF1 diminishes PD-L1 expression and promotes antitumor immunity. 	KAT8-TurboID labelling proteins	KAT8	Immunotherapies targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis have become first-line treatments in multiple cancers. However, only a limited subset of individuals achieves durable benefits because of the elusive mechanisms regulating PD-1/PD-L1. Here, we report that in cells exposed to interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), KAT8 undergoes phase separation with induced IRF1 and forms biomolecular condensates to upregulate PD-L1. Multivalency from both the specific and promiscuous interactions between IRF1 and KAT8 is required for condensate formation. KAT8-IRF1 condensation promotes IRF1 K78 acetylation and binding to the CD247 (PD-L1) promoter and further enriches the transcription apparatus to promote transcription of PD-L1 mRNA. Based on the mechanism of KAT8-IRF1 condensate formation, we identified the 2142-R8 blocking peptide, which disrupts KAT8-IRF1 condensate formation and consequently inhibits PD-L1 expression and enhances antitumor immunity in vitro and in vivo. Our findings reveal a key role of KAT8-IRF1 condensates in PD-L1 regulation and provide a competitive peptide to enhance antitumor immune responses.
PXD036935	36894693	Phase separation properties of RPA combine high-affinity ssDNA binding with dynamic condensate functions at telomeres. 	Phase separation properties of RPA combine high-affinity ssDNA binding with dynamic condensate functions at telomeres	Nuclear organization, alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT), biomolecular condensates, genome stability, replication protein A (RPA), single-stranded DNA (ssDNA)	RPA has been shown to protect single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) intermediates from instability and breakage. RPA binds ssDNA with sub-nanomolar affinity, yet dynamic turnover is required for downstream ssDNA transactions. How ultrahigh-affinity binding and dynamic turnover are achieved simultaneously is not well understood. Here we reveal that RPA has a strong propensity to assemble into dynamic condensates. In solution, purified RPA phase separates into liquid droplets with fusion and surface wetting behavior. Phase separation is stimulated by sub-stoichiometric amounts of ssDNA, but not RNA or double-stranded DNA, and ssDNA gets selectively enriched in RPA condensates. We find the RPA2 subunit required for condensation and multi-site phosphorylation of the RPA2 N-terminal intrinsically disordered region to regulate RPA self-interaction. Functionally, quantitative proximity proteomics links RPA condensation to telomere clustering and integrity in cancer cells. Collectively, our results suggest that RPA-coated ssDNA is contained in dynamic RPA condensates whose properties are important for genome organization and stability.
PXD038265	36894904	Precise diagnosis and typing of early-stage renal immunoglobulin-derived amyloidosis by label-free quantification of parallel reaction monitoring-based targeted proteomics. 	Precise diagnosis and typing of early-stage renal immunoglobulin-derived amyloidosis by label-free quantification of parallel reaction monitoring-based targeted proteomics	amyloidosis, kidney, laser microdissection, parallel reaction monitoring, targeted proteomics	BACKGROUND: Early diagnosis and typing are crucial for improving the prognosis of patients with renal amyloidosis. Currently, Untargeted proteomics based precise diagnosis and typing of amyloid deposits are crucial for guiding patient management. Although untargeted proteomics achieve ultra-high-throughput by selecting the most abundant eluting cationic peptide precursors in series for tandem MS events, it lacks in sensitivity and reproducibility, which may not be suitable for early-stage renal amyloidosis with minor damages. Here, we aimed to develop parallel reaction monitoring (PRM)-based targeted proteomics to achieve high sensitivity and specificity by determining absolute abundances and codetecting all transitions of highly repeatable peptides of preselected amyloid signature and typing proteins in identifying early-stage renal immunoglobulin-derived amyloidosis. METHODS AND RESULTS: In 10 discovery cohort cases, Congo red-stained FFPE slices were micro-dissected and analyzed by data-dependent acquisition-based untargeted proteomics for preselection of typing specific proteins and peptides. Further, a list of proteolytic peptides from amyloidogenic proteins and internal standard proteins were quantified by PRM-based targeted proteomics to validate performance for diagnosis and typing in 26 validation cohort cases. The diagnosis and typing effectiveness of PRM-based targeted proteomics in 10 early-stage renal amyloid cases was assessed via a comparison with untargeted proteomics. A peptide panel of amyloid signature proteins, immunoglobulin light chain and heave chain in PRM-based targeted proteomics showed significantly distinguishing ability and amyloid typing performance in patients. The diagnostic algorithm of targeted proteomics with a low amount of amyloid deposits in early-stage renal immunoglobulin-derived amyloidosis showed better performance than untargeted proteomics in amyloidosis typing. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that the utility of these prioritized peptides in PRM-based targeted proteomics ensure high sensitivity and reliability for identifying early-stage renal amyloidosis. Owing to the development and clinical application of this method, rapid acceleration of the early diagnosis, and typing of renal amyloidosis is expected.
PXD040072	36895878	Proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of 2,4-epibrassinolide-mediated cold stress response in cucumber seedlings. 	Proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of epibrassinolide (EBR) mediated cold stress response in cucumber seedlings	Cucumber seedling, cold stress, phosphoproteome	The 2, 4-epibrassinolide (EBR) significantly increased plants cold tolerance. However, mechanisms of EBR in regulating cold tolerance in phosphoproteome and proteome levels have not been reported. The mechanism of EBR regulating cold response in cucumber was studied by multiple omics analysis. In this study, phosphoproteome analysis showed that cucumber responded to cold stress through multi-site serine phosphorylation, while EBR further upregulated single-site phosphorylation for most of cold-responsive phosphoproteins. Association analysis of the proteome and phosphoproteome revealed that EBR reprogrammed proteins in response to cold stress by negatively regulating protein phosphorylation and protein content, and phosphorylation negatively regulated protein content in cucumber. Further functional enrichment analysis of proteome and phosphoproteome showed that cucumber mainly upregulated phosphoproteins related to spliceosome, nucleotide binding and photosynthetic pathways in response to cold stress. However, different from the EBR regulation in omics level, hypergeometric analysis showed that EBR further upregulated 16 cold-up-responsive phosphoproteins participated photosynthetic and nucleotide binding pathways in response to cold stress, suggested their important function in cold tolerance. Analysis of cold-responsive transcription factors (TFs) by correlation between proteome and phosphoproteome showed that cucumber regulated eight class TFs may through protein phosphorylation under cold stress. Further combined with cold-related transcriptome found that cucumber phosphorylated eight class TFs, and mainly through targeting major hormone signal genes by bZIP TFs in response to cold stress, while EBR further increased these bZIP TFs (CsABI5.2 and CsABI5.5) phosphorylation level. In conclusion, the EBR mediated schematic of molecule response mechanisms in cucumber under cold stress was proposed.
PXD039202	36896611	SIRT3-dependent delactylation of cyclin E2 prevents hepatocellular carcinoma growth. 	SIRT3 acts as delactylase to suppress hepatocellular carcinoma development	SIRT3, delactylase	Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a recently discovered histone mark derived from metabolic lactate. The NAD(+) -dependent deacetylase SIRT3, which can also catalyze removal of the lactyl moiety from lysine, is expressed at low levels in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and has been suggested to be an HCC tumor suppressor. Here we report that SIRT3 can delactylate non-histone proteins and suppress HCC development. Using SILAC-based quantitative proteomics, we identify cyclin E2 (CCNE2) as one of the lactylated substrates of SIRT3 in HCC cells. Furthermore, our crystallographic study elucidates the mechanism of CCNE2 K348la delactylation by SIRT3. Our results further suggest that lactylated CCNE2 promotes HCC cell growth, while SIRT3 activation by Honokiol induces HCC cell apoptosis and prevents HCC outgrowth in vivo by regulating Kla levels of CCNE2. Together, our results establish a physiological function of SIRT3 as a delactylase that is important for suppressing HCC, and our structural data could be useful for the future design of activators.
PXD031828	36898346	Composition of raft-like cell membrane microdomains resistant to styrene-maleic acid copolymer (SMA) solubilization. 	Composition of raft-like cell membrane microdomains resistant to styrene-maleic acid copolymer (SMA) solubilization	SMA, lipid rafts	An advantageous alternative to the use of detergents in biochemical studies on membrane proteins are the recently developed styrene-maleic acid (SMA) amphipathic copolymers. In our recent study ([1]) we demonstrated that using this approach, most T cell membrane proteins were fully solubilized (presumably in small nanodiscs), while two types of raft proteins, GPI-anchored proteins and Src family kinases, were mostly present in much larger (>250 nm) membrane fragments markedly enriched in typical raft lipids, cholesterol and lipids containing saturated fatty acid residues. In the present study we demonstrate that disintegration of membranes of several other cell types by means of SMA copolymer follows a similar pattern and we provide a detailed proteomic and lipidomic characterization of these SMA-resistant membrane fragments (SRMs).
PXD028855	36899005	LYN kinase programs stromal fibroblasts to facilitate leukemic survival via regulation of c-JUN and THBS1. 	Secretome of LYN deficient HS-5 stroma cells	BMSC, HS-5, LYN kinase, Multi-Omics, Secretome, Stroma	Microenvironmental bystander cells are essential for the progression of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We have discovered previously that LYN kinase promotes the formation of a microenvironmental niche for CLL. Here we provide mechanistic evidence that LYN regulates the polarization of stromal fibroblasts to support leukemic progression. LYN is overexpressed in fibroblasts of lymph nodes of CLL patients. LYN-deficient stromal cells reduce CLL growth in vivo. LYN-deficient fibroblasts show markedly reduced leukemia feeding capacity in vitro. Multi-omics profiling reveals that LYN regulates the polarization of fibroblasts towards an inflammatory cancer-associated phenotype through modulation of cytokine secretion and extracellular matrix composition. Mechanistically, LYN deletion reduces inflammatory signaling including reduction of c-JUN expression, which in turn augments the expression of Thrombospondin-1, which binds to CD47 thereby impairing CLL viability. Together, our findings suggest that LYN is essential for rewiring fibroblasts towards a leukemia-supportive phenotype.
PXD035585	36899022	Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase activates PKM2 to phosphorylate histone H3T11 and attenuate cellular senescence. 	IP-MS detected the interation protein with PKM2	PKM2, co-immunoprecipitation	Vascular endothelial cells (ECs) senescence correlates with the increase of cardiovascular diseases in ageing population. Although ECs rely on glycolysis for energy production, little is known about the role of glycolysis in ECs senescence. Here, we report a critical role for glycolysis-derived serine biosynthesis in preventing ECs senescence. During senescence, the expression of serine biosynthetic enzyme PHGDH is significantly reduced due to decreased transcription of the activating transcription factor ATF4, which leads to reduction of intracellular serine. PHGDH prevents premature senescence primarily by enhancing the stability and activity of pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2). Mechanistically, PHGDH interacts with PKM2, which prevents PCAF-catalyzed PKM2 K305 acetylation and subsequent degradation by autophagy. In addition, PHGDH facilitates p300-catalyzed PKM2 K433 acetylation, which promotes PKM2 nuclear translocation and stimulates its activity to phosphorylate H3T11 and regulate the transcription of senescence-associated genes. Vascular endothelium-targeted expression of PHGDH and PKM2 ameliorates ageing in mice. Our findings reveal that enhancing serine biosynthesis could become a therapy to promote healthy ageing.
PXD039234	36899423	DYRK1-mediated phosphorylation of endocytic components is required for extracellular lumen expansion in ascidian notochord. 	Ciona savignyi embryos 4D Label-free Quantitative Phosphoproteomics	ascidian embryos,lumenogenesis,DYRK1,AZ191,phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: The biological tube is a basal biology structure distributed in all multicellular animals, from worms to humans, and has diverse biological functions. Formation of tubular system is crucial for embryogenesis and adult metabolism. Ascidian Ciona notochord lumen is an excellent in vivo model for tubulogenesis. Exocytosis has been known to be essential for tubular lumen formation and expansion. The roles of endocytosis in tubular lumen expansion remain largely unclear. RESULTS: In this study, we first identified a dual specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1 (DYRK1), the protein kinase, which was upregulated and required for ascidian notochord extracellular lumen expansion. We demonstrated that DYRK1 interacted with and phosphorylated one of the endocytic components endophilin at Ser263 that was essential for notochord lumen expansion. Moreover, through phosphoproteomic sequencing, we revealed that in addition to endophilin, the phosphorylation of other endocytic components was also regulated by DYRK1. The loss of function of DYRK1 disturbed endocytosis. Then, we demonstrated that clathrin-mediated endocytosis existed and was required for notochord lumen expansion. In the meantime, the results showed that the secretion of notochord cells is vigorous in the apical membrane. CONCLUSIONS: We found the co-existence of endocytosis and exocytosis activities in apical membrane during lumen formation and expansion in Ciona notochord. A novel signaling pathway is revealed that DYRK1 regulates the endocytosis by phosphorylation that is required for lumen expansion. Our finding thus indicates a dynamic balance between endocytosis and exocytosis is crucial to maintain apical membrane homeostasis that is essential for lumen growth and expansion in tubular organogenesis.
PXD037502	36899812	HLA-B*57:01/Carbamazepine-10,11-Epoxide Association Triggers Upregulation of the NFkappaB and JAK/STAT Pathways. 	Workingtitle HLA-B*57:01 CBZ EPX impact	HLA-B*57:01 Human HLA CBZ EPX	Measure of drug-mediated immune reactions that are dependent on the patient's genotype determine individual medication protocols. Despite extensive clinical trials prior to the license of a specific drug, certain patient-specific immune reactions cannot be reliably predicted. The need for acknowledgement of the actual proteomic state for selected individuals under drug administration becomes obvious. The well-established association between certain HLA molecules and drugs or their metabolites has been analyzed in recent years, yet the polymorphic nature of HLA makes a broad prediction unfeasible. Dependent on the patient's genotype, carbamazepine (CBZ) hypersensitivities can cause diverse disease symptoms as maculopapular exanthema, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or the more severe diseases Stevens-Johnson-Syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis. Not only the association between HLA-B*15:02 or HLA-A*31:01 but also between HLA-B*57:01 and CBZ administration could be demonstrated. This study aimed to illuminate the mechanism of HLA-B*57:01-mediated CBZ hypersensitivity by full proteome analysis. The main CBZ metabolite EPX introduced drastic proteomic alterations as the induction of inflammatory processes through the upstream kinase ERBB2 and the upregulation of NFkappaB and JAK/STAT pathway implying a pro-apoptotic, pro-necrotic shift in the cellular response. Anti-inflammatory pathways and associated effector proteins were downregulated. This disequilibrium of pro- and anti-inflammatory processes clearly explain fatal immune reactions following CBZ administration.
PXD038764	36899833	Comparative and Temporal Characterization of LPS and Blue-Light-Induced TLR4 Signal Transduction and Gene Expression in Optogenetically Manipulated Endothelial Cells. 	Comparative and temporal characterization of LPS and blue light induced TLR4 signal transduction and gene expression in optogenetically manipulated endothelial cells	Toll-like receptor 4, chemotaxis, endothelial cells, lipopolysaccharide, mass spectrometry based proteomics, optogenetic control, pro-inflammatory proteins, transmigration	In endothelial cells (ECs), stimulation of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) by the endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces the release of diverse pro-inflammatory mediators, beneficial in controlling bacterial infections. However, their systemic secretion is a main driver of sepsis and chronic inflammatory diseases. Since distinct and rapid induction of TLR4 signaling is difficult to achieve with LPS due to the specific and non-specific affinity to other surface molecules and receptors, we engineered new light-oxygen-voltage-sensing (LOV)-domain-based optogenetic endothelial cell lines (opto-TLR4-LOV LECs and opto-TLR4-LOV HUVECs) that allow fast, precise temporal, and reversible activation of TLR4 signaling pathways. Using quantitative mass-spectrometry, RT-qPCR, and Western blot analysis, we show that pro-inflammatory proteins were not only expressed differently, but also had a different time course when the cells were stimulated with light or LPS. Additional functional assays demonstrated that light induction promoted chemotaxis of THP-1 cells, disruption of the EC monolayer and transmigration. In contrast, ECs incorporating a truncated version of the TLR4 extracellular domain (opto-TLR4 DeltaECD2-LOV LECs) revealed high basal activity with fast depletion of the cell signaling system upon illumination. We conclude that the established optogenetic cell lines are well suited to induce rapid and precise photoactivation of TLR4, allowing receptor-specific studies.
PXD039226	36899856	Insights into the Role of a Cardiomyopathy-Causing Genetic Variant in ACTN2. 	Insights into the role of a cardiomyopathy-causing genetic var-iant in ACTN2	alpha-actinin, cardiomyopathy, embryonic heart, mitochondria, sarcomere	Pathogenic variants in ACTN2, coding for alpha-actinin 2, are known to be rare causes of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy. However, little is known about the underlying disease mechanisms. Adult heterozygous mice carrying the Actn2 p.Met228Thr variant were phenotyped by echocardiography. For homozygous mice, viable E15.5 embryonic hearts were analysed by High Resolution Episcopic Microscopy and wholemount staining, complemented by unbiased proteomics, qPCR and Western blotting. Heterozygous Actn2 p.Met228Thr mice have no overt phenotype. Only mature males show molecular parameters indicative of cardiomyopathy. By contrast, the variant is embryonically lethal in the homozygous setting and E15.5 hearts show multiple morphological abnormalities. Molecular analyses, including unbiased proteomics, identified quantitative abnormalities in sarcomeric parameters, cell-cycle defects and mitochondrial dysfunction. The mutant alpha-actinin protein is found to be destabilised, associated with increased activity of the ubiquitin-proteasomal system. This missense variant in alpha-actinin renders the protein less stable. In response, the ubiquitin-proteasomal system is activated; a mechanism that has been implicated in cardiomyopathies previously. In parallel, a lack of functional alpha-actinin is thought to cause energetic defects through mitochondrial dysfunction. This seems, together with cell-cycle defects, the likely cause of the death of the embryos. The defects also have wide-ranging morphological consequences.
PXD040341	36901927	SWATH-MS-Based Proteomics Reveals the Regulatory Metabolism of Amaryllidaceae Alkaloids in Three Lycoris Species. 	SWATH-MS-Based Proteomics of Amaryllidaceae Alkaloids in Lycoris  Species	SWATH-MS Proteomic Lycoris	Alkaloids are a class of nitrogen-containing alkaline organic compounds found in nature, with significant biological activity, and are also important active ingredients in Chinese herbal medicine. Amaryllidaceae plants are rich in alkaloids, among which galanthamine, lycorine, and lycoramine are representative. Since the difficulty and high cost of synthesizing alkaloids have been the major obstacles in industrial production, particularly the molecular mechanism underlying alkaloid biosynthesis is largely unknown. Here, we determined the alkaloid content in Lycoris longituba, Lycoris incarnata, and Lycoris sprengeri, and performed a SWATH-MS (sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra)-based quantitative approach to detect proteome changes in the three Lycoris. A total of 2193 proteins were quantified, of which 720 proteins showed a difference in abundance between Ll and Ls, and 463 proteins showed a difference in abundance between Li and Ls. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that differentially expressed proteins are distributed in specific biological processes including amino acid metabolism, starch, and sucrose metabolism, implicating a supportive role for Amaryllidaceae alkaloids metabolism in Lycoris. Furthermore, several key genes collectively known as OMT and NMT were identified, which are probably responsible for galanthamine biosynthesis. Interestingly, RNA processing-related proteins were also abundantly detected in alkaloid-rich Ll, suggesting that posttranscriptional regulation such as alternative splicing may contribute to the biosynthesis of Amaryllidaceae alkaloids. Taken together, our SWATH-MS-based proteomic investigation may reveal the differences in alkaloid contents at the protein levels, providing a comprehensive proteome reference for the regulatory metabolism of Amaryllidaceae alkaloids.
PXD033709	36901940	Proteotranscriptomic Discrimination of Tumor and Normal Tissues in Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	Discrimination of tumor and normal tissues in renal cell carcinoma	SIL, ccRCC, targeted quantification	Clear cell renal carcinoma is the most frequent type of kidney cancer, with an increasing incidence rate worldwide. In this research, we used a proteotranscriptomic approach to differentiate normal and tumor tissues in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). Using transcriptomic data of patients with malignant and paired normal tissue samples from gene array cohorts, we identified the top genes over-expressed in ccRCC. We collected surgically resected ccRCC specimens to further investigate the transcriptomic results on the proteome level. The differential protein abundance was evaluated using targeted mass spectrometry (MS). We assembled a database of 558 renal tissue samples from NCBI GEO and used these to uncover the top genes with higher expression in ccRCC. For protein level analysis 162 malignant and normal kidney tissue samples were acquired. The most consistently upregulated genes were IGFBP3, PLIN2, PLOD2, PFKP, VEGFA, and CCND1 (p < 10(-5) for each gene). Mass spectrometry further validated the differential protein abundance of these genes (IGFBP3, p = 7.53 x 10(-18); PLIN2, p = 3.9 x 10(-39); PLOD2, p = 6.51 x 10(-36); PFKP, p = 1.01 x 10(-47); VEGFA, p = 1.40 x 10(-22); CCND1, p = 1.04 x 10(-24)). We also identified those proteins which correlate with overall survival. Finally, a support vector machine-based classification algorithm using the protein-level data was set up. We used transcriptomic and proteomic data to identify a minimal panel of proteins highly specific for clear cell renal carcinoma tissues. The introduced gene panel could be used as a promising tool in the clinical setting.
PXD039168	36901983	Enzyme Replacement Therapy for FABRY Disease: Possible Strategies to Improve Its Efficacy. 	Enzyme replacement therapy for Fabry disease: possible strate-gies to improve its efficacy	Fabrazyme, Fabry disease, GLA, Replagal., drug repositioning, interactome	Enzyme replacement therapy is the only therapeutic option for Fabry patients with completely absent AGAL activity. However, the treatment has side effects, is costly, and requires conspicuous amounts of recombinant human protein (rh-AGAL). Thus, its optimization would benefit patients and welfare/health services (i.e., society at large). In this brief report, we describe preliminary results paving the way for two possible approaches: i. the combination of enzyme replacement therapy with pharmacological chaperones; and ii. the identification of AGAL interactors as possible therapeutic targets on which to act. We first showed that galactose, a low-affinity pharmacological chaperone, can prolong AGAL half-life in patient-derived cells treated with rh-AGAL. Then, we analyzed the interactomes of intracellular AGAL on patient-derived AGAL-defective fibroblasts treated with the two rh-AGALs approved for therapeutic purposes and compared the obtained interactomes to the one associated with endogenously produced AGAL (data available as PXD039168 on ProteomeXchange). Common interactors were aggregated and screened for sensitivity to known drugs. Such an interactor-drug list represents a starting point to deeply screen approved drugs and identify those that can affect (positively or negatively) enzyme replacement therapy.
PXD039613	36902152	Multi-Omics Profiling of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Reveals Altered Mechanisms in Mitochondrial Dynamics and Excitation-Contraction Coupling. 	Multi-omics profiling of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy reveals altered mechanisms in mitochondrial dynamics and excitation-contraction coupling	HCM, hiPSC-CM, myectomy	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is one of the most common inherited cardiomyopathies and a leading cause of sudden cardiac death in young adults. Despite profound insights into the genetics, there is imperfect correlation between mutation and clinical prognosis, suggesting complex molecular cascades driving pathogenesis. To investigate this, we performed an integrated quantitative multi-omics (proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and metabolomic) analysis to illuminate the early and direct consequences of mutations in myosin heavy chain in engineered human induced pluripotent stem-cell-derived cardiomyocytes relative to late-stage disease using patient myectomies. We captured hundreds of differential features, which map to distinct molecular mechanisms modulating mitochondrial homeostasis at the earliest stages of pathobiology, as well as stage-specific metabolic and excitation-coupling maladaptation. Collectively, this study fills in gaps from previous studies by expanding knowledge of the initial responses to mutations that protect cells against the early stress prior to contractile dysfunction and overt disease.
PXD038982	36902298	Proteomics- and Metabolomics-Based Analysis of Metabolic Changes in a Swine Model of Pulmonary Hypertension. 	Proteomics and Metabolomics based analysis of Metabolic changes in a swine model of Pulmonary Hypertension	metabolomics, pig model, pulmonary hypertension	Pulmonary vein stenosis (PVS) causes a rare type of pulmonary hypertension (PH) by impacting the flow and pressure within the pulmonary vasculature, resulting in endothelial dysfunction and metabolic changes. A prudent line of treatment in this type of PH would be targeted therapy to relieve the pressure and reverse the flow-related changes. We used a swine model in order to mimic PH after PVS using pulmonary vein banding (PVB) of the lower lobes for 12 weeks to mimic the hemodynamic profile associated with PH and investigated the molecular alterations that provide an impetus for the development of PH. Our current study aimed to employ unbiased proteomic and metabolomic analyses on both the upper and lower lobes of the swine lung to identify regions with metabolic alterations. We detected changes in the upper lobes for the PVB animals mainly pertaining to fatty acid metabolism, reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling and extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and small, albeit, significant changes in the lower lobes for purine metabolism.
PXD040240	36903260	Proteomics Analysis of Lymphoblastoid Cell Lines from Patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. 	Proteomics Analysis of Lymphoblastoid Cell lines from Patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	Amyotopphic lateral sclerosis, biomarkers	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) consists of the progressive degeneration of motor neurons, caused by poorly understood mechanisms for which there is no cure. Some of the cellular perturbations associated with ALS can be detected in peripheral cells, including lymphocytes from blood. A related cell system that is very suitable for research consists of human lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), which are immortalized lymphocytes. LCLs that can be easily expanded in culture and can be maintained for long periods as stable cultures. We investigated, on a small set of LCLs, if a proteomics analysis using liquid chromatography followed by tandem mass spectrometry reveals proteins that are differentially present in ALS versus healthy controls. We found that individual proteins, the cellular and molecular pathways in which these proteins participate, are detected as differentially present in the ALS samples. Some of these proteins and pathways are already known to be perturbed in ALS, while others are new and present interest for further investigations. These observations suggest that a more detailed proteomics analysis of LCLs, using a larger number of samples, represents a promising approach for investigating ALS mechanisms and to search for therapeutic agents. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD040240.
PXD030789	36906617	DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) drives chronic kidney disease progression in male mice. 	DNA-PK drives CKD progression by activating TAF7/RAPTOR/mTORC1 signaling-mediated metabolic reprogramming	Chronic kidney disease, DNA-PK, fibrosis	Kidney injury initiates epithelial dedifferentiation and myofibroblast activation during the progression of chronic kidney disease. Herein, we find that the expression of DNA-PKcs is significantly increased in the kidney tissues of both chronic kidney disease patients and male mice induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction and unilateral ischemia-reperfusion injury. In vivo, knockout of DNA-PKcs or treatment with its specific inhibitor NU7441 hampers the development of chronic kidney disease in male mice. In vitro, DNA-PKcs deficiency preserves epithelial cell phenotype and inhibits fibroblast activation induced by transforming growth factor-beta 1. Additionally, our results show that TAF7, as a possible substrate of DNA-PKcs, enhances mTORC1 activation by upregulating RAPTOR expression, which subsequently promotes metabolic reprogramming in injured epithelial cells and myofibroblasts. Taken together, DNA-PKcs can be inhibited to correct metabolic reprogramming via the TAF7/mTORC1 signaling in chronic kidney disease, and serve as a potential target for treating chronic kidney disease.
PXD035955	36908092	Apocarotenoids are allosteric effectors of a dimeric plant glycosyltransferase involved in defense and lignin formation. 	Apocarotenoids are allosteric effectors of a dimeric plant glycosyltransferase involved in plant defense and lignin formation	Activation, Apocarotenoids, Glycosyltransferase, Ionol, Lignin, Phytoalexin	Glycosyltransferases are nature's versatile tools to tailor the functionalities of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and small molecules by transferring sugars. Prominent substrates are hydroxycoumarins such as scopoletin, which serve as natural plant protection agents. Similarly, C13-apocarotenoids, which are oxidative degradation products of carotenoids/xanthophylls, protect plants by repelling pests and attracting pest predators. We show that C13-apocarotenoids interact with the plant glycosyltransferase NbUGT72AY1 and induce conformational changes in the enzyme catalytic center ultimately reducing its inherent UDP-alpha-d-glucose glucohydrolase activity and increasing its catalytic activity for productive hydroxycoumarin substrates. By contrast, C13-apocarotenoids show no effect on the catalytic activity toward monolignol lignin precursors, which are competitive substrates. In vivo studies in tobacco plants (Nicotiana benthamiana) confirmed increased glycosylation activity upon apocarotenoid supplementation. Thus, hydroxycoumarins and apocarotenoids represent specialized damage-associated molecular patterns, as they each provide precise information about the plant compartments damaged by pathogen attack. The molecular basis for the C13-apocarotenoid-mediated interplay of two plant protective mechanisms and their function as allosteric enhancers opens up potential applications of the natural products in agriculture and pharmaceutical industry.
PXD031592	36912080	The ubiquitin-specific protease USP36 SUMOylates EXOSC10 and promotes the nucleolar RNA exosome function in rRNA processing. 	The Ubiquitin-Specific Protease USP36 SUMOylates EXOSC10 and promotes the nucleolar RNA exosome function in rRNA processing	RNA exosome, SUMOylation, USP36, deubiquitination, ribosome biogenesis	The RNA exosome is an essential 3' to 5' exoribonuclease complex that mediates degradation, processing and quality control of virtually all eukaryotic RNAs. The nucleolar RNA exosome, consisting of a nine-subunit core and a distributive 3' to 5' exonuclease EXOSC10, plays a critical role in processing and degrading nucleolar RNAs, including pre-rRNA. However, how the RNA exosome is regulated in the nucleolus is poorly understood. Here, we report that the nucleolar ubiquitin-specific protease USP36 is a novel regulator of the nucleolar RNA exosome. USP36 binds to the RNA exosome through direct interaction with EXOSC10 in the nucleolus. Interestingly, USP36 does not significantly regulate the levels of EXOSC10 and other tested exosome subunits. Instead, it mediates EXOSC10 SUMOylation at lysine (K) 583. Mutating K583 impaired the binding of EXOSC10 to pre-rRNAs, and the K583R mutant failed to rescue the defects in rRNA processing and cell growth inhibition caused by knockdown of endogenous EXOSC10. Furthermore, EXOSC10 SUMOylation is markedly reduced in cells in response to perturbation of ribosomal biogenesis. Together, these results suggest that USP36 acts as a SUMO ligase to promote EXOSC10 SUMOylation critical for the RNA exosome function in ribosome biogenesis.
PXD037367	36912488	Cerebrospinal Fluid and Brain Proteoforms of the Granin Neuropeptide Family in Alzheimer's Disease. 	CSF and Brain neuropeptidomics in dementia pathophysiology	Brain, CSF, LC-MS, Peptidomics	The granin neuropeptide family is composed of acidic secretory signaling molecules that act throughout the nervous system to help modulate synaptic signaling and neural activity. Granin neuropeptides have been shown to be dysregulated in different forms of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies have suggested that the granin neuropeptides and their protease-cleaved bioactive peptides (proteoforms) may act as both powerful drivers of gene expression and as a biomarker of synaptic health in AD. The complexity of granin proteoforms in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain tissue has not been directly addressed. We developed a reliable nontryptic mass spectrometry assay to comprehensively map and quantify endogenous neuropeptide proteoforms in the brain and CSF of individuals diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment and dementia due to AD compared to healthy controls, individuals with preserved cognition despite AD pathology ("Resilient"), and those with impaired cognition but no AD or other discernible pathology ("Frail"). We drew associations between neuropeptide proteoforms, cognitive status, and AD pathology values. Decreased levels of VGF proteoforms were observed in CSF and brain tissue from individuals with AD compared to controls, while select proteoforms from chromogranin A showed the opposite effect. To address mechanisms of neuropeptide proteoform regulation, we showed that the proteases Calpain-1 and Cathepsin S can cleave chromogranin A, secretogranin-1, and VGF into proteoforms found in both the brain and CSF. We were unable to demonstrate differences in protease abundance in protein extracts from matched brains, suggesting that regulation may occur at the level of transcription.
PXD036600	36913793	A tyrosine, histidine-selective bifunctional cross-linker for protein structure analysis. 	A Tyrosine, Histidine-Selective Bifunctional Cross-linker for Protein Structure Analysis	Histidine, Tyrosine	Chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) significantly contributes to the analysis of protein structures and the elucidation of protein-protein interactions. Currently available cross-linkers mainly target N-terminus, lysine, glutamate, aspartate, and cysteine residues in protein. Herein, a bifunctional cross-linker, named [4,4'-(disulfanediylbis(ethane-2,1-diyl)) bis(1-methyl-1,2,4-triazolidine-3,5-dione)] (DBMT) has been designed and characterized aiming to extremely expand the application of XL-MS approach. DBMT is capable of selectively targeting tyrosine residue in protein via an electrochemical click reaction, and/or targeting histidine residue in protein in the presence of (1)O2 generated under photocatalytic reaction. A novel cross-linking strategy based on this cross-linker has been developed and demonstrated using model proteins, which provides a complementary XL-MS tool analyzing protein structure, protein complexes, protein-protein interactions, and even protein dynamics.
PXD018224	36914713	Quantitative proteomic landscape of unstable atherosclerosis identifies molecular signatures and therapeutic targets for plaque stabilization. 	Multi-Omics' Defines Unstable and Stable Atherosclerotic Plaque Signatures and Identifies Novel Targets for Plaque Stabilisation	Atherosclerosis, plaque, thrombosis	Atherosclerotic plaque rupture leading to myocardial infarction is a major global health burden. Applying the tandem stenosis (TS) mouse model, which distinctively exhibits the characteristics of human plaque instability/rupture, we use quantitative proteomics to understand and directly compare unstable and stable atherosclerosis. Our data highlight the disparate natures and define unique protein signatures of unstable and stable atherosclerosis. Key proteins and pathway networks are identified such as the innate immune system, and neutrophil degranulation. The latter includes calprotectin S100A8/A9, which we validate in mouse and human unstable plaques, and we demonstrate the plaque-stabilizing effects of its inhibition. Overall, we provide critical insights into the unique proteomic landscape of unstable atherosclerosis (as distinct from stable atherosclerosis and vascular tissue). We further establish the TS model as a reliable preclinical tool for the discovery and testing of plaque-stabilizing drugs. Finally, we provide a knowledge resource defining unstable atherosclerosis that will facilitate the identification and validation of long-sought-after therapeutic targets and drugs for plaque stabilization.
PXD017431	36917474	A homozygous POLR1A variant causes leukodystrophy and affects protein homeostasis. 	Novel biallelic mutations in POLR1A: expansion of the phenotype and insight into the molecular mechanism	POLR1A, RNA Polymerase I, childhood disease, defective rRNA processing, neurodegenerative disease, seizures	RNA polymerase I transcribes ribosomal DNA to produce precursor 47S rRNA. Post-transcriptional processing of this rRNA generates mature 28S, 18S and 5.8S rRNAs, which form the ribosomes, together with 5S rRNA, assembly factors and ribosomal proteins. We previously reported a homozygous variant in the catalytic subunit of RNA polymerase I, POLR1A, in two brothers with leukodystrophy and progressive course. However, the disease mechanism remained unknown. In this report, we describe another missense variant POLR1A NM_015425.3:c.1925C>A; p.(Thr642Asn) in homozygosity in two unrelated patients. Patient 1 was a 16-year-old male and Patient 2 was a 2-year-old female. Both patients manifested neurological deficits, with brain MRIs showing hypomyelinating leukodystrophy and cerebellar atrophy; and in Patient 1 additionally with hypointensity of globi pallidi and small volume of the basal ganglia. Patient 1 had progressive disease course, leading to death at the age of 16.5 years. Extensive in vitro experiments in fibroblasts from Patient 1 documented that the mutated POLR1A led to aberrant rRNA processing and degradation, and abnormal nucleolar homeostasis. Proteomics data analyses and further in vitro experiments documented abnormal protein homeostasis, and endoplasmic reticulum stress responses. We confirm that POLR1A biallelic variants cause neurodegenerative disease, expand the knowledge of the clinical phenotype of the disorder, and provide evidence for possible pathological mechanisms leading to POLR1A-related leukodystrophy.
PXD037498	36917635	Hyperplexing Approaches for up to 45-Plex Quantitative Proteomic Analysis. 	A Tribrid Hyperplexing approach for Large-scale Quantitative Proteomic Analysis	Hyperplexing, IBT, TMT, TMTpro, quantitative proteomics	Isobaric labeling has emerged as an indispensable quantitative proteomic approach for its unprecedented multiplexing capacity in a single analysis. Currently, different hyperplexing approaches have been developed to meet the demand for the increasing sample size in large-scale cohort analysis. In this report, we present a tribrid hyperplexing approach by the combinatorial use of three types of isobaric reagents, a novel isobaric tag 16-plex (IBT16) reagent and the widely used tandem mass tag (TMT; TMT11) and TMTpro (TMT18) reagents. After the determination of labeling efficiency and the optimization of testing conditions, we systematically evaluated the identification and quantification performance of the three labeling reagents in both independent and combinatorial manners using the mixtures of E. coli and HeLa peptides with different ratios. Our results reveal that the three reagents are quite similar in all testing aspects despite some differences, and the combination use of the three reagents could expand the multiplexing capacity to up to 45-plex. Furthermore, we conclude the advantages of IBT16 in the combination use and the preferred combinations for different practical applications. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD037498.
PXD039110	36917642	SUMOylated IL-33 in the nucleus stabilizes the transcription factor IRF1 in hepatocellular carcinoma cells to promote immune escape. 	IL-33 stabilizes the transcription factor IRF1	IL-33, IRF1, SUMOylated	Interleukin-33 (IL-33) functions both as a secreted cytokine and as a nuclear factor, with pleiotropic roles in cancer and immunity. Here, we explored its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and identified that a posttranslational modification altered its nuclear activity and promoted immune escape for HCC. IL-33 abundance was overall decreased but more frequently localized to the nucleus in patient HCC tissues than in normal liver tissues. In human and mouse HCC cells in culture and in vivo, IL-33 overexpression inhibited proliferation and repressed the abundance of programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) at the transcriptional level by promoting the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1). However, this interaction was disrupted by SUMOylation of IL-33 at Lys(54) mediated by the E3 ligase RanBP2. IL-33 SUMOylation correlated with its nuclear localization in HCC cells and tumors. An increase in SUMOylated IL-33 in HCC cells in cocultures and in vivo stabilized IRF1 and increased PD-L1 abundance and chemokine IL-8 secretion, which prevented the activation of cytotoxic T cells and promoted the M2 polarization of macrophages, respectively. Mutating the SUMOylation site in IL-33 reversed these effects and suppressed tumor growth. These findings indicate that SUMOylation of nuclear IL-33 in HCC cells impairs antitumor immunity.
PXD038297	36917703	Interactions of Graphene Oxide and Few-Layer Graphene with the Blood-Brain Barrier. 	Interactions of graphene-based materials with the blood-brain barrier	blood-brain barrier, graphene	Thanks to their biocompatibility and high cargo capability, graphene-based materials (GRMs) might represent an ideal brain delivery system. The capability of GRMs to reach the brain has mainly been investigated in vivo and has highlighted some controversy. Herein, we employed two in vitro BBB models of increasing complexity to investigate the bionano interactions with graphene oxide (GO) and few-layer graphene (FLG): a 2D murine Transwell model, followed by a 3D human multicellular assembloid, to mimic the complexity of the in vivo architecture and intercellular crosstalk. We developed specific methodologies to assess the translocation of GO and FLG in a label-free fashion and a platform applicable to any nanomaterial. Overall, our results show good biocompatibility of the two GRMs, which did not impact the integrity and functionality of the barrier. Sufficiently dispersed subpopulations of GO and FLG were actively uptaken by endothelial cells; however, the translocation was identified as a rare event.
PXD037517	36918054	Proteomic analysis reveals the non-coding small RNA Qrr5 influences autoaggregation and growth competition in Vibrio parahaemolyticus. 	Proteomic analyses reveal the non-coding small RNA Qrr5 influences autoaggregation and growth competition in Vibrio parahaemolyticus	Non-coding small RNA, Qrr5, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, autoaggregation, growth competition	Vibrio parahaemolyticus, a sea-born bacterial pathogen, is a primary inducement of food-borne gastroenteritis. Previous studies have shown that non-coding small RNA plays a vital role in the regulation of multiple biological processes in pathogenic bacteria, especially autoaggregation and growth competition. However, the inherent mechanisms have not yet to be fully understood. As important regulators in Vibrios, the involvement of Qrr sRNAs in V. parahaemolyticus is largely unknown. Here, we carried out the Qrr5 deletion mutant and utilized a proteomic method to describe global proteomic alterations in response to Qrr5 deletion. A total of 297 significantly expressed proteins were determined between the Qrr5 deletion mutant and wild-type strain, among which 137 proteins were upregulated and 160 proteins were downregulated. The upregulated proteins principally participated in membrane transporters and signal transcription, while the downregulated proteins participated in the two-component system and transcription factor binding. Notably, transcriptional regulator LysR, outer membrane protein OmpA, and conjugal transfer protein TraA-related proteins were upregulated, causing the promotion of autoaggregation ability and growth competition ability against E. coli. This study provides insights into the regulatory network of sRNA in this bacterium, which will facilitate further explorations of important biological processes in pathogenic bacteria. SIGNIFICANCE: sRNA Qrr5 is an important regulator involved in bacterial multiple physiological processes, including auto-aggregation and growth competition among food-borne pathogens Vibrio parahaemolyticus. Here, utilizing a TMT-labeling proteomic approach, we identified 137 proteins were upregulated and 160 proteins were downregulated between the Qrr5 deletion mutant and wild-type strain. The upregulated proteins were involved in membrane transporters and signal transcription, while downregulated proteins were involved in the two-component system and transcription factor binding. Moreover, the LysR, OmpA, and TraA proteins were significantly upregulated, causing the promotion of autoaggregation and commensal growth competition ability. The mechanism of how Qrr5 regulates the targeted genes remains unclarified and need great efforts to explore.
PXD037304	36918294	Metabolomic interplay between gut microbiome and plasma metabolome in cardiac surgery-associated acute kidney injury. 	Metabolomic interplay between the gut microbiome and plasma in CSA-AKI patients	Acute Kidney Injury, Cardiac Surgery, Differential Analysis, Metabolomic Interplay	RATIONALE: Cardiac surgery-associated acute kidney injury (CSA-AKI) is a prevalent complication of cardiac surgery, which may be associated with a great risk of developing chronic kidney disease and mortality. This study aimed to investigate the possible links between gut microbiota metabolism and CSA-AKI. METHODS: A prospective cohort of patients who underwent cardiac surgery was continuously recruited, who were further divided into CSA-AKI group and Non-AKI group based on clinical outcomes. Their faecal and plasma samples were collected before surgery and were separately analysed by nontargeted and targeted metabolomics. The differential metabolites related to CSA-AKI were screened out using statistical methods, and altered metabolic pathways were determined by examining the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes database. RESULTS: Nearly 1000 faecal metabolites were detected through high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS) and bioinformatics at high and mid confidence levels, and 49 differential metabolites at high confidence level may perform essential biological functions and provide potential diagnostic indicators. Compared with the Non-AKI group, the patients in the CSA-AKI group displayed dramatic changes in gut microbiota metabolism, including amino acid metabolism, nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, purine metabolism and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. Meanwhile, 188 plasma metabolites were identified and quantified by tandem MS, and 34 differential plasma metabolites were screened out between the two groups using univariate statistical analysis. These differential plasma metabolites were primarily enriched in the following metabolic pathways: sulphur metabolism, amino acid biosynthesis, tryptophan metabolism and ABC transporters. Furthermore, the content of indole metabolites in the faecal and plasma samples of the CSA-AKI group was higher than that of the Non-AKI group. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with CSA-AKI may have dysbiosis of their intestinal microbiota and metabolic abnormalities in their gut system before cardiac surgery. Thus, some metabolites and related metabolic pathways may be potential biomarkers and new therapeutic targets for the disease.
PXD032027	36918934	LINP1 represses unfolded protein response by directly inhibiting eIF2alpha phosphorylation to promote cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. 	HPLC-MS datasets of LINP1 RNA pulldown samples in A431 cells	human  A431 cells HPLC-MS	BACKGROUND: Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress) may destroy endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis (ER homeostasis) and leads to programmable cell death. Unfolded protein response (UPR) originally stimulated by ER stress is critical for the survival of tumor cells through trying to re-establish ER homeostasis as an adaption to harsh microenvironment. However, mechanisms involving key regulators in modulating UPR remain underexplored. METHODS: The expression of LINP1 in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) tissues and cell lines was assessed. Subsequently, LINP1 was knocked out, knocked down or overexpressed in cSCC cells. CCK-8 assays, colony forming assays, transwell migration assays and invasiveness measurement by matrigel-coated transwell were performed to examine the role of LINP1 in cSCC development through gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments. Transcriptomic sequencing (RNA-Seq) was conducted and indicated the key downstream signaling events regulated by LINP1 including UPR and apoptosis signaling. Furthermore, the direct interaction between LINP1 and eIF2alpha to modulate UPR and apoptosis was confirmed by RNA pulldown, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), ChIP-qPCR and in vitro phosphorylation assays. RESULTS: In this study, LncRNA in non-homologous end joining pathway 1 (LINP1) was identified to be one of the top ten highest-expressed LncRNAs in cSCC, the second most common cancer in the world. Functional studies using in vitro and in vivo models revealed that LINP1 functions as an oncogene to promote cell proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasiveness while inhibiting cell apoptosis in cSCC. Transcriptomic sequencing after knockdown of LINP1 indicated LINP1 negatively regulates UPR-related pathways involving key effectors for activating UPR and the apoptosis following the prolonged UPR. Mechanistic study showed LINP1 physically interacts with eIF2alpha to inhibit its phosphorylation for avoiding unmitigated UPR. Loss of LINP1 followed by enhanced eIF2alpha phosphorylation led to overactivated UPR and induced DDIT3 expression, contributing to ER stress-induced apoptosis and suppression of cSCC development. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate a novel regulatory hierarchy of UPR by demonstrating LINP1 as a critical modulator for eIF2alpha phosphorylation and a suppressor of UPR-mediated apoptosis, which suggests a novel therapeutic target for cSCC treatment.
PXD037700	36920550	Mesenchyme-derived vertebrate lonesome kinase controls lung organogenesis by altering the matrisome. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of lung tissue from E18.5 embryos with mesenchymal deletion of VLK	embryo, lung, vertrebrate lonesome kinase	Vertebrate lonesome kinase (VLK) is the only known secreted tyrosine kinase and responsible for the phosphorylation of a broad range of secretory pathway-resident and extracellular matrix proteins. However, its cell-type specific functions in vivo are still largely unknown. Therefore, we generated mice lacking the VLK gene (protein kinase domain containing, cytoplasmic (Pkdcc)) in mesenchymal cells. Most of the homozygous mice died shortly after birth, most likely as a consequence of their lung abnormalities and consequent respiratory failure. E18.5 embryonic lungs showed a reduction of alveolar type II cells, smaller bronchi, and an increased lung tissue density. Global mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics identified 97 proteins with significantly and at least 1.5-fold differential abundance between genotypes. Twenty-five of these had been assigned to the extracellular region and 15 to the mouse matrisome. Specifically, fibromodulin and matrilin-4, which are involved in extracellular matrix organization, were significantly more abundant in lungs from Pkdcc knockout embryos. These results support a role for mesenchyme-derived VLK in lung development through regulation of matrix dynamics and the resulting modulation of alveolar epithelial cell differentiation.
PXD039956	36920904	A combinatorial approach to uncover an additional Integrator subunit. 	A combinatorial approach to uncover a novel Integrator subunit	AlphaFold2, Integrator complex, functional genomics, transcription	RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) controls expression of all protein-coding genes and most noncoding loci in higher eukaryotes. Calibrating RNAPII activity requires an assortment of polymerase-associated factors that are recruited at sites of active transcription. The Integrator complex is one of the most elusive transcriptional regulators in metazoans, deemed to be recruited after initiation to help establish and modulate paused RNAPII. Integrator is known to be composed of 14 subunits that assemble and operate in a modular fashion. We employed proteomics and machine-learning structure prediction (AlphaFold2) to identify an additional Integrator subunit, INTS15. We report that INTS15 assembles primarily with the INTS13/14/10 module and interfaces with the Int-PP2A module. Functional genomics analysis further reveals a role for INTS15 in modulating RNAPII pausing at a subset of genes. Our study shows that omics approaches combined with AlphaFold2-based predictions provide additional insights into the molecular architecture of large and dynamic multiprotein complexes.
PXD037014	36920961	Differential proteomic analysis and pathogenic effects of outer membrane vesicles derived from Acinetobacter baumannii under normoxia and hypoxia. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of extracellular membrane vesicles from Acinetobacter baumannii (AbOMVs) isolated under normoxic and hypoxic conditions.	Acinetobacter baumannii, extracellular membrane vesicles, hypoxic	Acinetobacter baumannii is a major causative agent of nosocomial infections and its outer membrane vesicles (AbOMVs) have been shown to be involved in pathogenicity by transporting virulence factors and transferring information for communication between pathogens and host cells. Despite the fact that the infected sites of A. baumannii such as lungs and skin soft tissues are hypoxic, most studies on AbOMV virulence have used AbOMVs prepared under aerobic conditions. The present study aims to elucidate the protein profile and pathogenic impact of AbOMVs released under hypoxic condition. AbOMVs were isolated from A. baumannii under normoxic and hypoxic conditions, and their protein profiles were compared. The different effects of both normoxic and hypoxic AbOMVs in cytokine response from mouse macrophages, cytotoxicity to the human lung epithelial cells, and bacterial invasion were then investigated. Our results showed that A. baumannii under hypoxia released larger amounts of OMVs with different protein profiles. Although the cytotoxic effect of AbOMVs from normoxia and hypoxia were comparable, AbOMVs from normoxia induced higher TNF-alpha production and invasion of Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa than those from hypoxia. On the other hand, AbOMVs significantly enhanced A. baumannii invasion into lung epithelial cells in a dose-dependent manner. These results clearly demonstrate that AbOMVs released from normoxic and hypoxic have different impacts in pathogenesis. This finding provides new insight into the complex interactions between A. baumannii, coinfecting pathogens and host cells via OMVs, in particular the different pathogenic effects of AbOMVs under normoxic and hypoxic conditions.
PXD038520	36921255	Definitive Screening Designs to Optimize Library-Free DIA-MS Identification and Quantification of Neuropeptides. 	Definitive Screening Design to Improve Data-Independent MS Analysis of Neuropeptides	design of experiments, label-free quantitation, library-free, neuropeptides	Method optimization is crucial for successful mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. However, extensive method assessments, altering various parameters individually, are rarely performed due to practical limitations regarding time and sample quantity. To maximize sample space for optimization while maintaining reasonable instrumentation requirements, a definitive screening design (DSD) is leveraged for systematic optimization of data-independent acquisition (DIA) parameters to maximize crustacean neuropeptide identifications. While DSDs require several injections, a library-free methodology enables surrogate sample usage for comprehensive optimization of MS parameters to assess biomolecules from limited samples. We identified several parameters contributing significant first- or second-order effects to method performance, and the DSD model predicted ideal values to implement. These increased reproducibility and detection capabilities enabled the identification of 461 peptides, compared to 375 and 262 peptides identified through data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and a published DIA method for crustacean neuropeptides, respectively. Herein, we demonstrate a DSD optimization workflow, using standard material, not reliant on spectral libraries for the analysis of any low abundance molecules from previous samples of limited availability. This extends the DIA method to low abundance isoforms dysregulated or only detectable in disease samples, thus improving characterization of previously inaccessible biomolecules, such as neuropeptides. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD038520.
PXD036641	36921622	Lactate regulates cell cycle by remodelling the anaphase promoting complex. 	Lactate regulates cell cycle and proliferation by remodeling the anaphase promoting complex	TPP, cell cycle, lactate	Lactate is abundant in rapidly dividing cells owing to the requirement for elevated glucose catabolism to support proliferation(1-6). However, it is not known whether accumulated lactate affects the proliferative state. Here we use a systematic approach to determine lactate-dependent regulation of proteins across the human proteome. From these data, we identify a mechanism of cell cycle regulation whereby accumulated lactate remodels the anaphase promoting complex (APC/C). Remodelling of APC/C in this way is caused by direct inhibition of the SUMO protease SENP1 by lactate. We find that accumulated lactate binds and inhibits SENP1 by forming a complex with zinc in the SENP1 active site. SENP1 inhibition by lactate stabilizes SUMOylation of two residues on APC4, which drives UBE2C binding to APC/C. This direct regulation of APC/C by lactate stimulates timed degradation of cell cycle proteins, and efficient mitotic exit in proliferative human cells. This mechanism is initiated upon mitotic entry when lactate abundance reaches its apex. In this way, accumulation of lactate communicates the consequences of a nutrient-replete growth phase to stimulate timed opening of APC/C, cell division and proliferation. Conversely, persistent accumulation of lactate drives aberrant APC/C remodelling and can overcome anti-mitotic pharmacology via mitotic slippage. In sum, we define a biochemical mechanism through which lactate directly regulates protein function to control the cell cycle and proliferation.
PXD036716	36922348	Differential Chemoproteomics Reveals MARK2/3 as Cell Migration-Relevant Targets of the ALK Inhibitor Brigatinib. 	Differential Chemoproteomics Reveals MARK2/3 as Cell Migration-Relevant Targets of the ALK Inhibitor Brigatinib	ALK, Brigatinib, Chemical Proteomics, Lung Cancer, anaplastic lymphoma kinase	Metastasis poses a major challenge in cancer management, including EML4-ALK-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). As cell migration is a critical step during metastasis, we assessed the anti-migratory activities of several clinical ALK inhibitors in NSCLC cells and observed differential anti-migratory capabilities despite similar ALK inhibition, with brigatinib displaying superior anti-migratory effects over other ALK inhibitors. Applying an unbiased in situ mass spectrometry-based chemoproteomics approach, we determined the proteome-wide target profile of brigatinib in EML4-ALK+ NSCLC cells. Dose-dependent and cross-competitive chemoproteomics suggested MARK2 and MARK3 as relevant brigatinib kinase targets. Functional validation showed that combined pharmacological inhibition or genetic modulation of MARK2/3 inhibited cell migration. Consistently, brigatinib treatment induced inhibitory YAP1 phosphorylation downstream of MARK2/3. Collectively, our data suggest that brigatinib exhibits unusual cross-phenotype polypharmacology as, despite similar efficacy for inhibiting EML4-ALK-dependent cell proliferation as other ALK inhibitors, it more effectively prevented migration of NSCLC cells due to co-targeting of MARK2/3.
PXD039305	36923216	Eugenol modulates the NOD1-NF-kappaB signaling pathway via targeting NF-kappaB protein in triple-negative breast cancer cells. 	Eugenol modulates the NOD1- NF-B signaling pathway via targeting NF-B protein in triple breast cancer cells	CMap, DARTs, eugenol, target protein., triple-negative breast cancer	Background: The most aggressive subtype of breast cancer, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), has a worse prognosis and a higher probability of relapse since there is a narrow range of treatment options. Identifying and testing potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of TNBC is of high priority. Methods: Using a transcriptional signature of triple-negative breast cancer collected from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), CMap was utilized to reposition compounds for the treatment of TNBC. CCK8 and colony formation experiments were performed to detect the effect of the candidate drug on the proliferation of TNBC cells. Meanwhile, transwell and wound healing assay were implemented to detect cell metastasis change caused by the candidate drug. Moreover, the proteomic approach was presently ongoing to evaluate the underlying mechanism of the candidate drug in TNBC. Furthermore, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) coupled with LC-MS/MS was carried out to explore the potential drug target candidate in TNBC cells. Results: We found that the most widely used medication, eugenol, reduced the growth and metastasis of TNBC cells. According to the underlying mechanism revealed by proteomics, eugenol could inhibit TNBC cell proliferation and metastasis via the NOD1-NF-kappaB signaling pathway. DARTS experiment further revealed that eugenol may bind to NF-kappaB in TNBC cells. Concludes: Our findings pointed out that eugenol was a potential candidate drug for the treatment of TNBC.
PXD031786	36924840	An ancient coronavirus from individuals in France, circa 16th century. 	Paleoproteomics of ancient human teeth	Homo sapiens, Metaproteomics, Paeoproteomics, Teeth	OBJECTIVES: At the time when the COVID-19 pandemic was responsible for more than six million deaths worldwide, the antiquity of coronaviruses remains undefined. We investigated individuals buried during the 16th century in France for the direct and paleoserological diagnosis of the coronavirus. METHODS: The 2011-2012 excavation of Abbey Saint-Pierre in Baume-Les-Messieurs, France uncovered 12 skeletons of individuals from the 13th to the 18th century. The total proteins extracted from dental pulps were subjected to microbial paleoserology, targeting SARS-CoV-2, human-associated coronavirus (HCoV)-229E, and OC43 antigens and for coronavirus peptide research using metaproteomics, in parallel to negative controls. RESULTS: Three peptide sequences totaling 36 amino acids indicative of a coronavirus were retrieved from the dental pulp remains collected from two individuals buried circa 16th century, in whom paleoserology confirmed a specific immunological response against modern-day SARS-CoV-2 and HCoV-229E. CONCLUSION: We provide serological and proteomic evidence for a betacoronavirus with no modern correspondent, infecting populations in the 16th century, extending the antiquity of coronaviruses by more than three centuries. Historical, archaeozoological, and paleoproteomic data suggested close contacts between these two individuals and domestic swine, cattle, and poultry, suggesting an ancient zoonotic coronavirus. Coronaviruses have been undesirable companions of populations long before the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak emerged.
PXD040111	36925279	Conjugation site characterization of antibody-drug conjugates using electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD). 	Conjugation site characterization of antibody-drug conjugates using electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD)	Antibody-drug conjugates, EThcD, conjugation site, peptide mapping, quality control	Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are formed by binding of cytotoxic drugs to monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) through chemical linkers. A comprehensive evaluation of the critical quality attributes (CQAs) of ADCs is vital for drug development but remains challenging owing to ADC structural heterogeneity than mAbs. Drug conjugation sites can considerably affect ADC properties, such as stability and pharmacokinetics, however, few studies have focused on method development in this area owing to technical challenges. Hybrid electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD) produces more fragment ions than conventional higher-energy collision dissociation (HCD) fragmentation, which aids in identifying and localizing post-translational modifications. Herein, we systematically employ EThcD to assess the fragmentation mode impact on conjugation site characterization for randomly conjugated and site-specific ADCs. EThcD generates more fragment ions in tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) spectra compared with HCD. Additional ions aid in pinpointing the correct conjugation sites that bear complex linker payload structures. Our study may contribute to the quality control of various preclinical and clinical ADCs.
PXD037652	36926872	Real-Time Library Search Increases Cross-Link Identification Depth across All Levels of Sample Complexity. 	Real-time library search assisted identification of cross-links increases resolution for structural modeling and interactome mapping	Cross-linking, E coli, PhoX, RTLS, XL-MS, diagnostic peaks	Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) is a universal tool for probing structural dynamics and protein-protein interactions in vitro and in vivo. Although cross-linked peptides are naturally less abundant than their unlinked counterparts, recent experimental advances improved cross-link identification by enriching the cross-linker-modified peptides chemically with the use of enrichable cross-linkers. However, mono-links (i.e., peptides modified with a hydrolyzed cross-linker) still hinder efficient cross-link identification since a large proportion of measurement time is spent on their MS2 acquisition. Currently, cross-links and mono-links cannot be separated by sample preparation techniques or chromatography because they are chemically almost identical. Here, we found that based on the intensity ratios of four diagnostic peaks when using PhoX/tBu-PhoX cross-linkers, cross-links and mono-links can be partially distinguished. Harnessing their characteristic intensity ratios for real-time library search (RTLS)-based triggering of high-resolution MS2 scans increased the number of cross-link identifications from both single protein samples and intact E. coli cells. Specifically, RTLS improves cross-link identification from unenriched samples and short gradients, emphasizing its advantages in high-throughput approaches and when instrument time or sample amount is limited.
PXD057211	36926954	Decrypting drug actions and protein modifications by dose- and time-resolved proteomics. 	Data-driven rescoring meets identification transfer in multi-batch isobaric labeling experiments: the best of both worlds (ProSIMSIt)	Isobaric Labelling, MaxQuant, Missing Values, Oktoberfest, Prediction, SIMSI-Transfer	Although most cancer drugs modulate the activities of cellular pathways by changing posttranslational modifications (PTMs), little is known regarding the extent and the time- and dose-response characteristics of drug-regulated PTMs. In this work, we introduce a proteomic assay called decryptM that quantifies drug-PTM modulation for thousands of PTMs in cells to shed light on target engagement and drug mechanism of action. Examples range from detecting DNA damage by chemotherapeutics, to identifying drug-specific PTM signatures of kinase inhibitors, to demonstrating that rituximab kills CD20-positive B cells by overactivating B cell receptor signaling. DecryptM profiling of 31 cancer drugs in 13 cell lines demonstrates the broad applicability of the approach. The resulting 1.8 million dose-response curves are provided as an interactive molecular resource in ProteomicsDB.
PXD035203	36926972	Detection and Isolation of Circulating Tumor Cells from Breast Cancer Patients Using CUB Domain-Containing Protein 1. 	Detection and isolation of circulating tumor cells from breast cancer patients using CUB domain-containing protein 1 (CDCP1) Detection and isolation of circulating tumor cells from breast cancer patients using CUB domain-containing protein 1 (CDCP1) Detec	CDCP1, bone marrow, breast cancer, circulating tumour cells, dissemination	In cancer metastasis, single circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in the blood and disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) in the bone marrow mediate cancer metastasis. Because suitable biomarker proteins are lacking, CTCs and DTCs with mesenchymal attributes are difficult to isolate from the bulk of normal blood cells. To establish a procedure allowing the isolation of such cells, we analyzed the cell line BC-M1 established from DTCs in the bone marrow of a breast cancer patient by stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and mass spectrometry. We found high levels of the transmembrane protein CUB domain-containing protein 1 (CDCP1) in breast cancer cell lines with mesenchymal attributes. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were virtually negative for CDCP1. Confirmation in vivo by CellSearch revealed CDCP1-positive CTCs in 8 of 30 analyzed breast cancer patients. Only EpCam-positive CTCs were enriched by CellSearch. Using the extracellular domain of CDCP1, we established a magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS) approach enabling also the enrichment of EpCam-negative CTCs. Thus, our approach is particularly suited for the isolation of mesenchymal CTCs with downregulated epithelial cancer that occur, for example, in triple-negative breast cancer patients who are prone to therapy failure.
PXD036231	36927377	Investigating the inhibitory and penetrating properties of three novel anticancer and antimicrobial scorpion peptides via molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation. 	Novel peptide from Buthotus saulcyi,Odontobuthus doriae, Androctonus crassicauda scorpion venom (Jamil Zargan, Haider A. Khan, Shakir Ali)	peptide, scorpion, venom	The two types of bladder cancer, muscle invasive and non-muscle invasive (NMIBC), are among the most prevalent cancers worldwide. Despite this, even though muscle-invasive bladder cancer is more deadly, NMIBC requires more therapy due to a greater recurrence rate and more extended and expensive care. Immunotherapy, intravesical chemotherapy, cystoscopy, and transurethral resection (TUR) are among the treatments available. Crude scorpion venomand purified proteins and peptides, can suppress cancer metastasis in an in vitro or in vivo context, suppress cancer growth, halt the cell cycle, and cause cell apoptosis, according to an increasing number of experimental and preclinical studies. In this research, three novels discovered peptides (P2, P3 and P4. ProteomeXchange: PXD036231) from Buthotus saulcyi and, Odontobuthus doriae scorpions were used along with a peptide called pantinin (as a control). The phylogenetic tree showed that the peptides belong to Chaperonin HSP60, Chrysophsin2 and Pheromone-binding protein2, respectively. These peptides were docked with four known antigens, BAGE, BLCAP, PRAME and ROR1 related to bladder cancer and three bacterial antigens FliC, FliD and FimH to investigate their antimicrobial and anticancer properties. The results showed that peptides 2 and 3 have the best binding rate. The MD simulation results also confirmed the binding of peptides 2 and 3 to antigens. The penetration power of peptides 2 and 3 in the membrane of cancer cells and bacterial cells was also simulated, and the results of RMSD and PD confirmed it. QSAR suggests that peptides 2 and 3 can act as anti-cancer and anti-microbial peptides.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
PXD037561	36928686	The claudin-like apicomplexan microneme protein is required for gliding motility and infectivity of Plasmodium sporozoites. 	The claudin-like apicomplexan microneme protein is essential for Plasmodium berghei sporozoite infectivity in the mosquito and mammalian hosts	CLAMP, Plasmodium, conditional mutagenesis, malaria, sporozoites	Invasion of host cells by apicomplexan parasites such as Toxoplasma and Plasmodium spp requires the sequential secretion of the parasite apical organelles, the micronemes and the rhoptries. The claudin-like apicomplexan microneme protein (CLAMP) is a conserved protein that plays an essential role during invasion by Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites and in Plasmodium falciparum asexual blood stages. CLAMP is also expressed in Plasmodium sporozoites, the mosquito-transmitted forms of the malaria parasite, but its role in this stage is still unknown. CLAMP is essential for Plasmodium blood stage growth and is refractory to conventional gene deletion. To circumvent this obstacle and study the function of CLAMP in sporozoites, we used a conditional genome editing strategy based on the dimerisable Cre recombinase in the rodent malaria model parasite P. berghei. We successfully deleted clamp gene in P. berghei transmission stages and analyzed the functional consequences on sporozoite infectivity. In mosquitoes, sporozoite development and egress from oocysts was not affected in conditional mutants. However, invasion of the mosquito salivary glands was dramatically reduced upon deletion of clamp gene. In addition, CLAMP-deficient sporozoites were impaired in cell traversal and productive invasion of mammalian hepatocytes. This severe phenotype was associated with major defects in gliding motility and with reduced shedding of the sporozoite adhesin TRAP. Expansion microscopy revealed partial colocalization of CLAMP and TRAP in a subset of micronemes, and a distinct accumulation of CLAMP at the apical tip of sporozoites. Collectively, these results demonstrate that CLAMP is essential across invasive stages of the malaria parasite, and support a role of the protein upstream of host cell invasion, possibly by regulating the secretion or function of adhesins in Plasmodium sporozoites.
PXD033301	36929036	4E-BP1 counteracts human mesenchymal stem cell senescence via maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis. 	4E-BP1 counteracts human stem cell senescence via maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis	EIF4EBP1, mitochondria, oxidative phosphorylation	Although the mTOR-4E-BP1 signaling pathway is implicated in aging and aging-related disorders, the role of 4E-BP1 in regulating human stem cell homeostasis remains largely unknown. Here, we report that the expression of 4E-BP1 decreases along with the senescence of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs). Genetic inactivation of 4E-BP1 in hMSCs compromises mitochondrial respiration, increases mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and accelerates cellular senescence. Mechanistically, the absence of 4E-BP1 destabilizes proteins in mitochondrial respiration complexes, especially several key subunits of complex III including UQCRC2. Ectopic expression of 4E-BP1 attenuates mitochondrial abnormalities and alleviates cellular senescence in 4E-BP1-deficient hMSCs as well as in physiologically aged hMSCs. These f indings together demonstrate that 4E-BP1 functions as a geroprotector to mitigate human stem cell senescence and maintain mitochondrial homeostasis, particularly for the mitochondrial respiration complex III, thus providing a new potential target to counteract human stem cell senescence.
PXD037697	36929224	FAM69C functions as a kinase for eIF2alpha and promotes stress granule assembly. 	FAM69C functions as a kinase for eIF2alpha and promotes stress granule assembly	FAM69C, eIF2alpha, inflammasome, stress granule., stress response	Stress granules are dynamic cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granules that assemble in response to cellular stress. Aberrant formation of stress granules has been linked to neurodegenerative diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the initiation of stress granules remain elusive. Here we report that the brain-enriched protein kinase FAM69C promotes stress granule assembly through phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2alpha). FAM69C physically interacts with eIF2alpha and functions as a stress-specific kinase for eIF2alpha, leading to stress-induced protein translation arrest and stress granule assembly. Primary microglia derived from Fam69c knockout mice exhibit aberrant stress granule assembly in response to oxidative stress and ATP. Defective stress granule assembly in microglia correlates with the formation of ASC specks and NLRP3 inflammasome activation, whereas induction of stress granule precludes inflammasome formation. Consistently, increased NLRP3 levels, caspase-1 cleavage and Il18 expression corroborate microglia-associated neuroinflammation in aged Fam69c knockout mice. Our study demonstrates that FAM69C is critical for stress granule assembly and suggests its role in the regulation of microglia function.
PXD040978	36929899	The Ubiquitin Ligase Itch Skews Light Zone Selection in Germinal Centers. 	The Ubiquitin Ligase Itch Skews Light Zone Selection in Germinal Centers	autoimmunity, b-cell, germinal center, ubiquitin ligase	Ig diversification occurs in peripheral lymphoid organs after establishment of central tolerance during B cell development. In germinal centers (GCs), somatic hypermutation of Ig genes occurs in dark zones, followed by selection of mutated clones in light zones (LZs). This generates high-affinity Ig receptors to pathogens but can also produce autoreactive Ig receptors, which are removed by selection mechanisms that are incompletely understood. The ubiquitin ligase Itch prevents the emergence of autoimmune disease and autoantibodies in humans and mice, and patients lacking Itch develop potentially fatal autoimmune diseases; yet, how Itch regulates GC B cells is not well understood. By studying Itch-deficient mice, we have recently shown that Itch directly limits the magnitude of GC responses. Proteomic profiling of GC B cells uncovered that Itch-deficient cells exhibit high mTORC1 and Myc activity, hallmarks of positive selection. Bone marrow chimera and adoptive transfer experiments revealed that B cell Itch restricts noncycling LZ cells. These results support, to our knowledge, a novel role for Itch in skewing selection of GC B cells to restrict LZ accumulation and shape GC-derived humoral immunity. Determining how B cells integrate cues within GCs to navigate through LZs and dark zones will aid in understanding how autoreactive clones emerge from GCs in people with autoimmune disease.
PXD037699	36930278	Analysis of cellulose synthesis in a high-producing acetic acid bacterium Komagataeibacter hansenii. 	Analysis of cellulose synthesis in a highproducing acetic acid bacterium Komagataeibacter hansenii	Komagataeibacter hansenii, acetic acid bacteria, bacterial cellulose, cellulose fiber, markerless deletion	Bacterial cellulose (BC) represents a renewable biomaterial with unique properties promising for biotechnology and biomedicine. Komagataeibacter hansenii ATCC 53,582 is a well-characterized high-yield producer of BC used in the industry. Its genome encodes three distinct cellulose synthases (CS), bcsAB1, bcsAB2, and bcsAB3, which together with genes for accessory proteins are organized in operons of different complexity. The genetic foundation of its high cellulose-producing phenotype was investigated by constructing chromosomal in-frame deletions of the CSs and of two predicted regulatory diguanylate cyclases (DGC), dgcA and dgcB. Proteomic characterization suggested that BcsAB1 was the decisive CS because of its high expression and its exclusive contribution to the formation of microcrystalline cellulose. BcsAB2 showed a lower expression level but contributes significantly to the tensile strength of BC and alters fiber diameter significantly as judged by scanning electron microscopy. Nevertheless, no distinct extracellular polymeric substance (EPS) from this operon was identified after static cultivation. Although transcription of bcsAB3 was observed, expression of the protein was below the detection limit of proteome analysis. Alike BcsAB2, deletion of BcsAB3 resulted in a visible reduction of the cellulose fiber diameter. The high abundance of BcsD and the accessory proteins CmcAx, CcpAx, and BglxA emphasizes their importance for the proper formation of the cellulosic network. Characterization of deletion mutants lacking the DGC genes dgcA and dgcB suggests a new regulatory mechanism of cellulose synthesis and cell motility in K. hansenii ATCC 53,582. Our findings form the basis for rational tailoring of the characteristics of BC. KEY POINTS: * BcsAB1 induces formation of microcrystalline cellulose fibers. * Modifications by BcsAB2 and BcsAB3 alter diameter of cellulose fibers. * Complex regulatory network of DGCs on cellulose pellicle formation and motility.
PXD036645	36931277	Structures of Ric-8B in complex with Galpha protein folding clients reveal isoform specificity mechanisms. 	Phosphorylation of purified recombinant mouse Ric-8B	CK2, Casein Kinase 2, Phosphorylation, Resistance to Inhibitors of Cholinesterase-8B, Ric-8B	Mammalian Ric-8 proteins act as chaperones to regulate the cellular abundance of heterotrimeric G protein alpha subunits. The Ric-8A isoform chaperones Galphai/o, Galpha12/13, and Galphaq/11 subunits, while Ric-8B acts on Galphas/olf subunits. Here, we determined cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of Ric-8B in complex with Galphas and Galphaolf, revealing isoform differences in the relative positioning and contacts between the C-terminal alpha5 helix of Galpha within the concave pocket formed by Ric-8 alpha-helical repeat elements. Despite the overall architectural similarity with our earlier structures of Ric-8A complexed to Galphaq and Galphai1, Ric-8B distinctly accommodates an extended loop found only in Galphas/olf proteins. The structures, along with results from Ric-8 protein thermal stability assays and cell-based Galphaolf folding assays, support a requirement for the Galpha C-terminal region for binding specificity, and highlight that multiple structural elements impart specificity for Ric-8/G protein binding.
PXD040075	36931280	Long noncoding RNA Lnc530 localizes on R-loops and regulates R-loop formation and genomic stability in mouse embryonic stem cells. 	Proteins interacting with Lnc530 in mouse embryonic stem cells	Lnc530, mouse embryonic stem cells	Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are superior to differentiated cells to maintain genome stability, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely elusive. R-loops are constantly formed during transcription and are inducers of DNA damage if not resolved. Here we report that mouse ESCs (mESCs) can efficiently prevent unscheduled R-loop formation, and a long noncoding RNA Lnc530 plays regulatory role. Lnc530 is expressed in mESCs and localizes on R-loops. Depletion of Lnc530 in mESCs causes R-loop accumulation and DNA damage, whereas forced expression of Lnc530 in differentiated cells suppresses the R-loop formation. Mechanistically, Lnc530 associates with DDX5 and TDP-43 in an inter-dependent manner on R-loops. Formation of Lnc530-DDX5-TDP-43 complex substantially increases the local protein levels of DDX5 and TDP-43, both of which play critical roles in R-loop regulation. This study uncovers an efficient strategy to prevent R-loop accumulation and preserve genomic stability in mESCs and possibly other stem cell types.
PXD021936	36931626	PI3Kalpha Translocation Mediates Nuclear PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 Effector Signaling in Colorectal Cancer. 	Mapping of the nuclear PI(3,4,5)P3 interactome in DLD1 and SW480 cells	CRC, nuclear extract, phosphoinositide	The canonical view of PI3Kalpha signaling describes phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P3) generation and activation of downstream effectors at the plasma membrane or at microtubule-bound endosomes. Here, we show that colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines exhibit a diverse plasma membrane-nuclear distribution of PI3Kalpha, controlling corresponding levels of subcellular PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 pools. PI3Kalpha nuclear translocation was mediated by the importin beta-dependent nuclear import pathway. By PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 affinity capture mass spectrometry done in the presence of SDS on CRC cell lines with PI3Kalpha nuclear localization, we identified 867 potential nuclear PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 effector proteins. Nuclear PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 interactome proteins were characterized by noncanonical PtdIns(3,4,5)P3-binding domains and showed overrepresentation for nuclear membrane, nucleolus, and nuclear speckles. The nuclear PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 interactome was enriched for proteins related to RNA metabolism, with splicing reporter assays and SC-35 foci staining suggesting a role of epidermal growth factor-stimulated nuclear PI3Kalpha signaling in modulating pre-mRNA splicing. In patient tumors, nuclear p110alpha staining was associated with lower T stage and mucinous histology. These results indicate that PI3Kalpha translocation mediates nuclear PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 effector signaling in human CRC, modulating signaling responses.
PXD036046	36932232	Investigation of targets and anticancer mechanisms of covalently acting natural products by functional proteomics. 	Covalent Target Identification and Mechanism Interrogation of Anti-Cancer Natural Products	Anti-Cancer, Covalent Target, Natural Products	Eriocalyxin B (EB), 17-hydroxy-jolkinolide B (HJB), parthenolide (PN), xanthatin (XT) and andrographolide (AG) are terpenoid natural products with a variety of promising antitumor activities, which commonly bear electrophilic groups (alpha,beta-unsaturated carbonyl groups and/or epoxides) capable of covalently modifying protein cysteine residues. However, their direct targets and underlying molecular mechanisms are still largely unclear, which limits the development of these compounds. In this study, we integrated activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) and quantitative proteomics approach to systematically characterize the covalent targets of these natural products and their involved cellular pathways. We first demonstrated the anti-proliferation activities of these five compounds in triple-negative breast cancer cell MDA-MB-231. Tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics showed all five compounds commonly affected the ubiquitin mediated proteolysis pathways. ABPP platform identified the preferentially modified targets of EB and PN, two natural products with high anti-proliferation activity. Biochemical experiments showed that PN inhibited the cell proliferation through targeting ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 10 (USP10). Together, this study uncovered the covalently modified targets of these natural products and potential molecular mechanisms of their antitumor activities.
PXD035474	36933413	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic characteristics of the cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, lung, and kidney in COVID-19-infected female K18-hACE2 mice. 	Multi-organ proteomic and phosphoproteomic landscape of K18-hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV-2	COVID-19, K18-hACE2 mice, label free, multi-organ, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: Neurological damage caused by coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has attracted increasing attention. Recently, through autopsies of patients with COVID-19, the direct identification of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in their central nervous system (CNS) has been reported, indicating that SARS-CoV-2 might directly attack the CNS. The need to prevent COVID-19-induced severe injuries and potential sequelae is urgent, requiring the elucidation of large-scale molecular mechanisms in vivo. METHODS: In this study, we performed liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of the cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, lungs, and kidneys of SARS-CoV-2-infected K18-hACE2 female mice. We then performed comprehensive bioinformatic analyses, including differential analyses, functional enrichment, and kinase prediction, to identify key molecules involved in COVID-19. FINDINGS: We found that the cortex had higher viral loads than did the lungs, and the kidneys did not have SARS-COV-2. After SARS-CoV-2 infection, RIG-I-associated virus recognition, antigen processing and presentation, and complement and coagulation cascades were activated to different degrees in all five organs, especially the lungs. The infected cortex exhibited disorders of multiple organelles and biological processes, including dysregulated spliceosome, ribosome, peroxisome, proteasome, endosome, and mitochondrial oxidative respiratory chain. The hippocampus and thalamus had fewer disorders than did the cortex; however, hyperphosphorylation of Mapt/Tau, which may contribute to neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, was found in all three brain regions. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2-induced elevation of human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) was observed in the lungs and kidneys, but not in the three brain regions. Although the virus was not detected, the kidneys expressed high levels of hACE2 and exhibited obvious functional dysregulation after infection. This indicates that SARS-CoV-2 can cause tissue infections or damage via complicated routes. Thus, the treatment of COVID-19 requires a multipronged approach. INTERPRETATION: This study provides observations and in vivo datasets for COVID-19-associated proteomic and phosphoproteomic alterations in multiple organs, especially cerebral tissues, of K18-hACE2 mice. In mature drug databases, the differentially expressed proteins and predicted kinases in this study can be used as baits to identify candidate therapeutic drugs for COVID-19. This study can serve as a solid resource for the scientific community. The data in this manuscript will serve as a starting point for future research on COVID-19-associated encephalopathy. FUNDING: This study was supported by grants from the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences, the National Natural Science Foundation of China, and the Natural Science Foundation of Beijing.
PXD038785	36934128	In vivo characterization of the bacterial intramembrane-cleaving protease RseP using the heme binding tag-based assay iCliPSpy. 	In vivo characterization of the bacterial intramembrane-cleaving protease RseP using the heme binding tag-based assay iCliPSpy	TNF, fusion protein, intact mass analysis, intermembrane protease	Regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP) describes the protease-dependent cleavage of transmembrane proteins within the hydrophobic core of cellular membranes. Intramembrane-cleaving proteases (I-CliPs) that catalyze these reactions are found in all kingdoms of life and are involved in a wide range of cellular processes, including signaling and protein homeostasis. I-CLiPs are multispanning membrane proteins and represent challenging targets in structural and enzyme biology. Here we introduce iCLiPSpy, a simple assay to study I-CLiPs in vivo. To allow easy detection of enzyme activity, we developed a heme-binding reporter based on TNFalpha that changes color after I-CLiP-mediated proteolysis. Co-expression of the protease and reporter in Escherichia coli (E. coli) results in white or green colonies, depending on the activity of the protease. As a proof of concept, we use this assay to study the bacterial intramembrane-cleaving zinc metalloprotease RseP in vivo. iCLiPSpy expands the methodological repertoire for identifying residues important for substrate binding or activity of I-CLiPs and can in principle be adapted to a screening assay for the identification of inhibitors or activators of I-CLiPs, which is of great interest for proteases being explored as biomedical targets.
PXD033253	36934130	CRISPR-Cas9 editing of TLR4 to improve the outcome of cardiac cell therapy. 	CRISPR-Cas9 Editing of TLR4 Improves the Outcome of Cardiac Cell Therapy	TLR4, cell therapy, mesenchymal stromal cells	Inflammation and fibrosis limit the reparative properties of human mesenchymal stromal cells (hMSCs). We hypothesized that disrupting the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) gene would switch hMSCs toward a reparative phenotype and improve the outcome of cell therapy for infarct repair. We developed and optimized an improved electroporation protocol for CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing. This protocol achieved a 68% success rate when applied to isolated hMSCs from the heart and epicardial fat of patients with ischemic heart disease. While cell editing lowered TLR4 expression in hMSCs, it did not affect classical markers of hMSCs, proliferation, and migration rate. Protein mass spectrometry analysis revealed that edited cells secreted fewer proteins involved in inflammation. Analysis of biological processes revealed that TLR4 editing reduced processes linked to inflammation and extracellular organization. Furthermore, edited cells expressed less NF-kB and secreted lower amounts of extracellular vesicles and pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic cytokines than unedited hMSCs. Cell therapy with both edited and unedited hMSCs improved survival, left ventricular remodeling, and cardiac function after myocardial infarction (MI) in mice. Postmortem histologic analysis revealed clusters of edited cells that survived in the scar tissue 28 days after MI. Morphometric analysis showed that implantation of edited cells increased the area of myocardial islands in the scar tissue, reduced the occurrence of transmural scar, increased scar thickness, and decreased expansion index. We show, for the first time, that CRISPR-Cas9-based disruption of the TLR4-gene reduces pro-inflammatory polarization of hMSCs and improves infarct healing and remodeling in mice. Our results provide a new approach to improving the outcomes of cell therapy for cardiovascular diseases.
PXD038081	36934880	Phenotypic Heterogeneity Analysis of APC-Mutant Colon Cancer by Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Identifies RAI14 as a Key Prognostic Determinant in East Asians and Westerners. 	Phenotypic heterogeneity analysis of APC-mutant colon cancer by proteomics and phosphoproteomics identifies RAI14 as a key prognostic determinant	APC-mutant,RAI14, Colorectal cancer	Adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) is an important tumor suppressor and is mostly linked to the regulation of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. APC mutation has been identified as an early event in more than 80% of sporadic colorectal cancers (CRCs). Moreover, prognostic differences are observed in CRC patients with APC mutations. Although previous genomics studies have investigated the roles of concomitant gene mutations in determining the phenotypic heterogeneity of APC-mutant tumors, valuable prognostic determinants for APC-mutant CRC patients are still lacking. Based on the proteome and phosphoproteome data, we classified APC-mutant colon cancer patients and revealed genomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic heterogeneity in APC-mutant tumors. More importantly, we identified RAI14 as a key prognostic determinant for APC-mutant but not APC-wildtype colon cancer patients. The heterogeneity and the significance of prognostic biomarkers in APC-mutant tumors were further validated in the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) colon cancer cohort. In addition, we found that colon cancer patients with high expression of RAI14 were less responsive to chemotherapy. Knockdown of RAI14 in cell lines led to reduced cell migration and changes in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related markers. Mechanistically, knockdown of RAI14 remodeled the phosphoproteome associated with cell adhesion, which might affect EMT marker expression and promote F-actin degradation. Collectively, this work describes the phenotypic heterogeneity of APC-mutant tumors and identifies RAI14 as an important prognostic determinant for APC-mutant colon cancer patients. The prognostic utility of RAI14 in APC-mutant colon cancer will provide early warning and increase the chance of successful treatment.
PXD028452	36936522	Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonist Protects Against Diabetic Cardiomyopathy by Modulating microRNA-29b-3p/SLMAP. 	Cardiac proteomics in diabetic cardiomyopathy mice treated with GLP-1 receptor agonist	GLP-1 receptor agonist, diabetic cardiomyopathy	Purpose: Our aims were to investigate the pathogenesis of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) and to explore the protective effect of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA) on DCM. Methods: After 12 weeks of treatment with exenatide-loaded microspheres, a long-acting GLP-1RA, in DCM mice, cardiac structure and function were evaluated by plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), echocardiography, H&E, oil red and Sirius staining. The expression of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor in mouse heart tissue was determined by immunofluorescence staining. The label-free proteomic analysis of cardiac proteins was conducted among control, DCM and DM+GLP-1RA groups. Then, quantitative real-time PCR, Western blotting and dual-luciferase reporter assay were performed to verify the regulation of target protein by the upstream microRNA (miRNA). Results: GLP-1RA treatment obviously improved serum BNP, myocardial fibrosis, lipid deposition of the myocardium and echocardiography parameters in DCM mice. Sarcolemmal membrane-associated protein (SLMAP) was one of 61 differentially expressed cardiac proteins found in three groups by proteomic analysis. Up-regulation of microRNA-29b-3p (miR-29b-3p) and down-regulation of SLMAP were found in the ventricular myocardium of GLP-1RA-treated DCM mice. SLMAP was a target of miR-29b-3p, while GLP-1RA regulated SLMAP expression through miR-29b-3p. Furthermore, inhibition of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) in cardiomyocytes reversed the effects of GLP-1RA on miR-29b/SLMAP. Conclusion: SLMAP may play roles in the pathogenesis of DCM and may be a target of GLP-1RA in protecting against DCM. After binding to myocardial GLP-1R, GLP-1RA can regulate the expression of myocardial SLMAP through miR-29b-3p.
PXD039973	36936926	Post-translational modifications confer amphotericin B resistance in Candida krusei isolated from a neutropenic patient. 	Post-translational modifications confer amphotericin B resistance in Candida krusei isolated  from a neutropenic patient	Candida Krusei, amphotericin B, neutropenia, resistance, succinylation	Neutropenia is a common complication in the treatment of hematological diseases and the most common predisposing factor for invasion by fungi, such as Candida krusei. Recent studies have shown that C. krusei, a life-threatening pathogen, has developed resistance to amphotericin B (AMB). However, the mechanisms that led to the rapid emergence of this AMB-resistant phenotype are unclear. In this study, we found the sensitivity for AMB could be promoted by inhibiting histone acyltransferase activity and western blot analysis revealed differences in the succinylation levels of C. krusei isolated from immunocompromised patients and of the corresponding AMB-resistant mutant. By comparative succinyl-proteome analysis, we identified a total of 383 differentially expressed succinylated sites in with 344 sites in 134 proteins being upregulated in the AMB-resistant mutant, compared to 39 sites in 23 proteins in the wild-type strain. These differentially succinylated proteins were concentrated in the ribosome and cell wall. The critical pathways associated with these proteins included those involved in glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, the ribosome, and fructose and mannose metabolism. In particular, AMB resistance was found to be associated with enhanced ergosterol synthesis and aberrant amino acid and glucose metabolism. Analysis of whole-cell proteomes, confirmed by parallel reaction monitoring, showed that the key enzyme facilitating lysine acylation was significantly upregulated in the AMB-resistant strain. Our results suggest that lysine succinylation may play an indispensable role in the development of AMB resistance in C. krusei. Our study provides mechanistic insights into the development of drug resistance in fungi and can aid in efforts to stifle the emergence of AMB-resistant pathogenic fungi.
PXD037170	36937286	Elevated inorganic carbon and salinity enhances photosynthesis and ATP synthesis in picoalga Picocystis salinarum as revealed by label free quantitative proteomics. 	Elevated inorganic carbon and salinity enhances photosynthesis and ATP synthesis in picoalga Picocystis salinarum as revealed by label free quantitative proteomics	Picocystis salinarum, algae, bicarbonate, halophilic, label free quantitation, salinity	Saline soda lakes are of immense ecological value as they niche some of the most exclusive haloalkaliphilic communities dominated by bacterial and archaeal domains, with few eukaryotic algal representatives. A handful reports describe Picocystis as a key primary producer with great production rates in extremely saline alkaline habitats. An extremely haloalkaliphilic picoalgal strain, Picocystis salinarum SLJS6 isolated from hypersaline soda lake Sambhar, Rajasthan, India, grew robustly in an enriched soda lake medium containing mainly Na2CO3, 50 g/l; NaHCO3, 50 g/l, NaCl, 50 g/l (salinity =~150/1000) at pH 10. To elucidate the molecular basis of such adaptation to high inorganic carbon and NaCl concentrations, a high-throughput label-free quantitation based quantitative proteomics approach was applied. Out of the total 383 proteins identified in treated samples, 225 were differentially abundant proteins (DAPs), of which 150 were statistically significant (p < 0.05) including 70 upregulated and 64 downregulated proteins after 3 days of growth in highly saline-alkaline medium. Most DAPs were involved in photosynthesis, oxidative phosphorylation, glucose metabolism and ribosomal structural components envisaging that photosynthesis and ATP synthesis were central to the salinity-alkalinity response. Key components of photosynthetic machinery like photosystem reaction centres, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase ATP, Rubisco, Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, Fructose-bisphosphate aldolase were highly upregulated. Enzymes peptidylprolyl isomerases (PPIase), important for correct protein folding showed remarkable marked-up regulation along with other chaperon proteins indicating their role in osmotic adaptation. Enhanced photosynthetic activity exhibited by P. salinarum in highly saline-alkaline condition is noteworthy as photosynthesis is suppressed under hyperosmotic conditions in most photosynthetic organisms. The study provided the first insights into the proteome of extremophilic alga P. salinarum exhibiting extraordinary osmotic adaptation and proliferation in polyextreme conditions prevailing in saline sodic ecosystems, potentially unraveling the basis of resilience in this not so known organism and paves the way for a promising future candidate for biotechnological applications and model organism for deciphering the molecular mechanisms of osmotic adaptation. The mass spectrometry proteomics data is available at the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD037170.
PXD038710	36938130	Simultaneous removal of nitrogen and arsenite by heterotrophic nitrification and aerobic denitrification bacterium Hydrogenophaga sp. H7. 	Simultaneous removal of nitrogen and arsenite by heterotrophic nitrification and aerobic denitrification bacterium Hydrogenophaga sp. H7	Hydrogenophaga, arsenitae oxidation, cocontamination, nitrogen removal, wastewater microbial treatment	Introduction: Nitrogen and arsenic contaminants often coexist in groundwater, and microbes show the potential for simultaneous removal of nitrogen and arsenic. Here, we reported that Hydrogenophaga sp. H7 was heterotrophic nitrification and aerobic denitrification (HNAD) and arsenite [As(III)] oxidation bacterium. Methods: The appearance of nitrogen removal and As(III) oxidation of Hydrogenophaga sp. H7 in liquid culture medium was studied. The effect of carbon source, C/N ratio, temperature, pH values, and shaking speeds were analyzed. The impact of strains H7 treatment with FeCl3 on nitrogen and As(III) in wastewater was assessed. The key pathways that participate in simultaneous nitrogen removal and As(III) oxidation was analyzed by genome and proteomic analysis. Results and discussion: Strain H7 presented efficient capacities for simultaneous NH4 (+)-N, NO3 (-)-N, or NO2 (-)-N removal with As(III) oxidation during aerobic cultivation. Strikingly, the bacterial ability to remove nitrogen and oxidize As(III) has remained high across a wide range of pH values, and shaking speeds, exceeding that of the most commonly reported HNAD bacteria. Additionally, the previous HNAD strains exhibited a high denitrification efficiency, but a suboptimal concentration of nitrogen remained in the wastewater. Here, strain H7 combined with FeCl3 efficiently removed 96.14% of NH4 (+)-N, 99.08% of NO3 (-)-N, and 94.68% of total nitrogen (TN), and it oxidized 100% of As(III), even at a low nitrogen concentration (35 mg/L). The residues in the wastewater still met the V of Surface Water Environmental Quality Standard of China after five continuous wastewater treatment cycles. Furthermore, genome and proteomic analyses led us to propose that the shortcut nitrification-denitrification pathway and As(III) oxidase AioBA are the key pathways that participate in simultaneous nitrogen removal and As(III) oxidation.
PXD037912	36938542	Detection of dairy products from multiple taxa in Late Neolithic pottery from Poland: an integrated biomolecular approach. 	Proteomic analysis of Late Neolithic pottery residues from Poland	Ceramics, Dairy, Funnel Beaker culture, Palaeoproteomics	The detection of dairy processing is pivotal to our understanding of ancient subsistence strategies. This culinary process is linked to key arguments surrounding the evolution of lactase persistence in prehistory. Despite extensive evidence indicating the presence of dairy products in ceramics in the European Neolithic, questions remain about the nature and extent of milk (and lactose) processing and consumption. In order to investigate past patterns of dairy processing, here we analyse ancient proteins identified from Late Neolithic Funnel Beaker ceramics, scrutinizing the principle that curd and whey proteins partition during the production of dairy foods from milk. Our results indicate the presence of casein-rich dairy products in these vessels suggesting the creation of curd-enriched products from raw milk. Moreover, this analysis reveals the use of multiple species for their dairy products in the Late Neolithic, adding to a growing body of evidence for the period. Alongside palaeoproteomic analysis, we applied well-established lipid residue analysis. Differential interpretations between these two approaches show that palaeoproteomics is especially useful where the effects from isotope mixing may underestimate the frequency of dairy products in archaeological ceramics, highlighting the potential utility of a multi-stranded approach to understand life histories of vessel use.
PXD038928	36938941	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic profiling of sonicate fluid differentiates Staphylococcus aureus periprosthetic joint infection from non-infectious failure: A pilot study. 	Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomic Profiling of Sonicate Fluid Differentiates Staphylococcus aureus Periprosthetic Joint Infection from Non-Infectious Failure: A pilot study	Label-free quantitation, periprosthetic joint infection, quantitative proteomics, sonicate fluid, total joint arthroplasty	PURPOSE: This pilot study aimed to use proteomic profiling of sonicate fluid samples to compare host response during Staphylococcus aureus-associated periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) and non-infected arthroplasty failure (NIAF) and identify potential novel biomarkers differentiating the two. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In this pilot study, eight sonicate fluid samples (four from NIAF and four from S. aureus PJI) were studied. Samples were reduced, alkylated, and trypsinized overnight, followed by analysis using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) on a high-resolution Orbitrap Eclipse mass spectrometer. MaxQuant software suite was used for protein identification, filtering, and label-free quantitation. RESULTS: Principal component analysis of the identified proteins clearly separated S. aureus PJI and NIAF samples. Overall, 810 proteins were identified based on their detection in at least three out of four samples from each group; 35 statistically significant differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were found (two-sample t-test p-values <=0.05 and log2 fold-change values >=2 or <=-2). Gene ontology pathway analysis found that microbial defense responses, specifically those related to neutrophil activation, to be increased in S. aureus PJI compared to NIAF samples. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Proteomic profiling of sonicate fluid using LC-MS/MS differentiated S. aureus PJI and NIAF in this pilot study. Further work is needed using a larger sample size and including non-S. aureus PJI and a diversty of NIAF-types.
PXD029045	36939752	Nascent Proteome and Glycoproteome Reveal the Inhibition Role of ALG1 in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Cell Migration. 	Nascent proteome and glycoproteome reveal the inhibition role of ALG1 in hepatocellular carcinoma cell migration	ALG1, Glycosylation, N-cadherin, Nascent proteome, hepatocellular carcinoma	Asparagine-linked glycosylation protein 1 homolog (ALG1) participates in the initial stage of protein N-glycosylation and N-glycosylation has been implicated in the process of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression. However, whether ALG1 plays a role in human HCC remains unknown. In this study, the expression profile of ALG1 in tumorous and corresponding adjacent non-tumor tissues was analyzed. The relationship of ALG1 expression with clinical features and prognosis of HCC patients was also evaluated using immuno-histochemical method. Here we found ALG1 decreased in HCC tissues compared with adjacent normal liver tissues, which predicted an unfavorable prognosis. Combined with RNA interference, nascent proteome and glycoproteome were determined systematically in Huh7 cell line. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that the differentially expressed proteins participating in the response of ALG1 knockdown were most significantly associated with cell-cell adhesion. Functional studies confirmed that knockdown of ALG1 reduced cell adhesion capacity, and promoted cell migration. Furthermore, down-regulation of H8N2 (on N-glycosite N651) and H5N4S2F1 (on N-glycosite N692) from N-cadherin was identified as a feature of ALG1 knockdown. Our findings revealed that ALG1 controlled the expression of glycosylated N-cadherin and played a role in HCC migration, with implications for prognosis. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43657-022-00050-5.
PXD026944	36939786	Global Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Downstream Signaling Networks of Msx1 and Msx2 in Myoblast Differentiation. 	Global quantitative proteomics analysis reveals the downstream signaling networks of Msx1 and Msx2 in skeletal muscle development	Msx1, Msx2, quantitative proteomics, skeletal muscle differentiation	The msh homeobox 1 (Msx1) and msh homeobox 2 (Msx2) coordinate in myoblast differentiation and also contribute to muscle defects if altered during development. Deciphering the downstream signaling networks of Msx1 and Msx2 in myoblast differentiation will help us to understand the molecular events that contribute to muscle defects. Here, the proteomics characteristics in Msx1- and Msx2-mediated myoblast differentiation was evaluated  using isobaric tags for the relative and absolute quantification labeling technique (iTRAQ). The downstream regulatory proteins of Msx1- and Msx2-mediated differentiation were identified. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that these proteins were primarily associated with xenobiotic metabolism by cytochrome P450, fatty acid degradation, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, arginine and proline metabolism, and apoptosis. In addition, our data show Acta1 was probably a core of the downstream regulatory networks of Msx1 and Msx2 in myoblast differentiation. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43657-022-00049-y.
PXD038835	36940913	Triggering and identifying the polyurethane and polyethylene-degrading machinery of filamentous fungi secretomes. 	Triggering the polyurethane and polyethylene-degrading potential of filamentous fungi secretomes	Fungi, Label free, Plastics, Secretome	The uncontrollable disposal of plastic waste has raised the concern of the scientific community, which tries to face this environmental burden by discovering and applying new techniques. Regarding the biotechnology field, several important microorganisms possessing the necessary enzymatic arsenal to utilize recalcitrant synthetic polymers as an energy source have been discovered. In the present study, we screened various fungi for their ability to degrade intact polymers, such as ether-based polyurethane (PU) and low-density polyethylene (LDPE). For this, ImpranIil(R) DLN-SD and a mixture of long-chain alkanes were used as sole carbon sources, indicating not only the most promising strains in agar plate screening but also inducing the secretion of depolymerizing enzymatic activities, useful for polymer degradation. The agar plate screening revealed three fungal strains belonging to Fusarium and Aspergillus genera, whose secretome was further studied for its ability to degrade the aforementioned non-treated polymers. Specifically for ether-based PU, the secretome of a Fusarium species reduced the sample mass and the average molecular weight of the polymer by 24.5 and 20.4%, respectively, while the secretome of an Aspergillus species caused changes in the molecular structure of LDPE, as evidenced by FTIR. The proteomics analysis revealed that the enzymatic activities induced in presence of Impranil(R) DLN-SD can be associated with urethane bond cleavage, a fact which was also supported by the observed degradation of the ether-based PU. Although, the mechanism of LDPE degradation was not completely elucidated, the presence of oxidative enzymes could be the main factor contributing to polymer modification.
PXD036833	36941363	Protein structure prediction with in-cell photo-crosslinking mass spectrometry and deep learning. 	AlphaLink: bringing protein structure prediction in situ with in-cell photo-crosslinking mass spectrometry, crosslinking mass spectrometry, XL-MS,	alphafold, crosslinking, photo-amino acid, photo-leucine	While AlphaFold2 can predict accurate protein structures from the primary sequence, challenges remain for proteins that undergo conformational changes or for which few homologous sequences are known. Here we introduce AlphaLink, a modified version of the AlphaFold2 algorithm that incorporates experimental distance restraint information into its network architecture. By employing sparse experimental contacts as anchor points, AlphaLink improves on the performance of AlphaFold2 in predicting challenging targets. We confirm this experimentally by using the noncanonical amino acid photo-leucine to obtain information on residue-residue contacts inside cells by crosslinking mass spectrometry. The program can predict distinct conformations of proteins on the basis of the distance restraints provided, demonstrating the value of experimental data in driving protein structure prediction. The noise-tolerant framework for integrating data in protein structure prediction presented here opens a path to accurate characterization of protein structures from in-cell data.
PXD040199	36941595	TUBA1C: a new potential target of LncRNA EGFR-AS1 promotes gastric cancer progression. 	TUBA1C: a new potential target of LncRNA EGFR-AS1 promotes gastric cancer progression	Cell cycle, Gastric cancer, LncRNA EGFR-AS1, TUBA1C	BACKGROUND: The lack of obvious symptoms of early gastric cancer (GC) as well as the absence of sensitive and specific biomarkers results in poor clinical outcomes. Tubulin is currently emerging as important regulators of the microtubule cytoskeleton and thus have a strong potential to be implicated in a number of disorders, however, its mechanism of action in gastric cancer is still unclear. Tubulin alpha-1 C (TUBA1C) is a subtype of alpha-tubulin, high TUBA1C expression has been shown to be closely related to a poor prognosis in various cancers, this study, for the first time, revealed the mechanism of TUBA1C promotes malignant progression of gastric cancer in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: The expression of lncRNA EGFR-AS1 was detected in human GC cell lines by qRT-PCR. Mass spectrometry experiments following RNA pulldown assays found that EGFR-AS1 directly binds to TUBA1C, the CCK8, EdU, transwell, wound-healing, cell cycle assays and animal experiments were conducted to investigate the function of TUBA1C in GC. Combined with bioinformatics analyses, reveal interaction between Ki-67, E2F1, PCNA and TUBA1C by western blot. Rescue experiments furtherly demonstrated the relationship of EGFR-AS1and TUBA1C. RESULTS: TUBA1C was proved to be a direct target of EGFR-AS1, and TUBA1C promotes gastric cancer proliferation, migration and invasion by accelerating the progression of the cell cycle from the G1 phase to the S phase and activating the expression of oncogenes: Ki-67, E2F1 and PCNA. CONCLUSION: TUBA1C is a new potential target of LncRNA EGFR-AS1 promotes gastric cancer progression and could be a novel biomarker and therapeutic target for GC.
PXD039839	36942481	Biochemical characterisation of Mer3 helicase interactions and the protection of meiotic recombination intermediates. 	Biochemical characterisation of Mer3 helicase interactions and the protection of meiotic recombination intermediates	Meiosis, Mer3, crossover, phospho proteomics	Crossing over between homologs is critical for the stable segregation of chromosomes during the first meiotic division. Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mer3 (HFM1 in mammals) is a SF2 helicase and member of the ZMM group of proteins, that facilitates the formation of the majority of crossovers during meiosis. Here, we describe the structural organisation of Mer3 and using AlphaFold modelling and XL-MS we further characterise the previously described interaction with Mlh1-Mlh2. We find that Mer3 also forms a previously undescribed complex with the recombination regulating factors Top3 and Rmi1 and that this interaction is competitive with Sgs1BLM helicase. Using in vitro reconstituted D-loop assays we show that Mer3 inhibits the anti-recombination activity of Sgs1 helicase, but only in the presence of Dmc1. Thus we provide a mechanism whereby Mer3 interacts with a network of proteins to protect Dmc1 derived D-loops from dissolution.
PXD047763	36945520	Ophiobolin A Covalently Targets Complex IV Leading to Mitochondrial Metabolic Collapse in Cancer Cells. 	Chemoproteomic profiling to identify Ophiobolin A targets	Ophiobolin	Ophiobolin A (OPA) is a sesterterpenoid fungal natural product with broad anti-cancer activity. While OPA possesses multiple electrophilic moieties that can covalently react with nucleophilic amino acids on proteins, the proteome-wide targets and mechanism of OPA remain poorly understood in many contexts. In this study, we used covalent chemoproteomic platforms to map the proteome-wide reactivity of OPA in a highly sensitive lung cancer cell line. Among several proteins that OPA engaged, we focused on two targets-cysteine C53 of HIG2DA and lysine K72 of COX5A-that are part of complex IV of the electron transport chain and contributed significantly to the anti-proliferative activity. OPA activated mitochondrial respiration in a HIG2DA and COX5A-dependent manner, led to an initial spike in mitochondrial ATP, but then compromised mitochondrial membrane potential leading to ATP depletion. We have used chemoproteomic strategies to discover a unique anti-cancer mechanism of OPA through activation of complex IV leading to compromised mitochondrial energetics and rapid cell death.
PXD034521	36947051	Targeting WDxR motif reprograms immune microenvironment and inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma progression. 	Analyze the post-translation modification of UVRAG	UVRAG, phosphorylation, ubiquitination	The WD-repeat (WDR) family affects carcinogenesis, but its role in the immune microenvironment is poorly characterized. Although functional loss or gain of WDR6 does not markedly change in vitro proliferative and invasive capacity of HCC cells, its deficiency in hepa1-6 cells drastically inhibits the growth and lung metastasis of orthotopically implanted tumors in immune-competent C57BL/6J mice. Mechanistically, WDR6 targets tumor suppressor UVRAG to the CUL4A-DDB1-ROC1 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex through a unique WDxR motif and promotes its degradation. This upregulates chromatin accessibility at the TNFalpha locus by blocking autophagic degradation of p65, elevates intratumoral myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC) number, and reduces CD8(+) T cell infiltration, thereby promoting HCC progression. These immunosuppressive effects are reversed by TNFalpha blockade. TNFalpha recruits NF-kappaB to activate the transcription of WDR6, establishing a WDR6-TNFalpha loop. Clinically, the WDR6/UVRAG/NF-kappaB pathway is hyperactivated in HCC, predicting a poor prognosis. Importantly, a WDxR-like peptide disrupts the WDR6/UVRAG complex and enhances the efficiency of anti-PD-L1 against HCC with WDR6 dysregulation.
PXD038096	36947710	Identification of novel smORFs and microprotein acting in response to rehydration of Nostoc flagelliforme. 	Identification of novel smORFs acting in response to rehydration of Nostoc flagelliforme	MS, Nostoc flagelliforme, smORF	Nostoc flagelliforme, a terrestrial cyanobacterium spread throughout arid and semi-arid areas, has been long known for its outstanding adaptability to extremely dry conditions. This microorganism is able to recover biological activities within hours after months of anhydrobiosis state, attracting investigation through proteomic analysis. Except for canonical proteome, microproteins encoded by small ORFs (smORFs) have recently been regarded as indispensable participants in metabolic processes. However, the involvement of smORFs in N. flagelliforme remains unknown. Here we first constructed a smORF database in N. flagelliforme using bioinformatic prediction, resulting in 6072 novel smORFs. Then LS-MS/MS analysis was applied to identify expression patterns of microproteins and seek smORFs and their encoded microprotein playing a role during rehydration. In total, 18 novel microproteins were mined based on a smORF searching strategy combined with three proteomic assays, of which five were annotated as ribosomal proteins, one as RNA polymerase subunit, and one as acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase. We also suggested the possible functions of smORFs according to their expression pattern and discovered two neighboring and homologous smORFs. All these results will expand our knowledge of smORFs-encoded microproteins and their relation to the stress response of extremophilic microorganisms.
PXD041115	36948192	Ribosome-rescuer PELO catalyzes the oligomeric assembly of NOD-like receptor family proteins via activating their ATPase enzymatic activity. 	NLRP3 immunoprecipitation SWATH-MS data	IP, NLRP3, SWATH-MS	NOD-like receptors (NLRs) are pattern recognition receptors for diverse innate immune responses. Self-oligomerization after engagement with a ligand is a generally accepted model for the activation of each NLR. We report here that a catalyzer was required for NLR self-oligomerization. PELO, a well-known surveillance factor in translational quality control and/or ribosome rescue, interacted with all cytosolic NLRs and activated their ATPase activity. In the case of flagellin-initiated NLRC4 inflammasome activation, flagellin-bound NAIP5 recruited the first NLRC4 and then PELO was required for correctly assembling the rest of NLRC4s into the NLRC4 complex, one by one, by activating the NLRC4 ATPase activity. Stoichiometric and functional data revealed that PELO was not a structural constituent of the NLRC4 inflammasome but a powerful catalyzer for its assembly. The catalytic role of PELO in the activation of cytosolic NLRs provides insight into NLR activation and provides a direction for future studies of NLR family members.
PXD032067	36948415	Development of a Spectral Library for the Discovery of Altered Genomic Events in Mycobacterium avium Associated With Virulence Using Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteogenomic Analysis. 	Novel Events, Gene Model Correction of Mycobacterium Avium by Proteogenomic Analysis	DDA, DIA, Mycobacterium avium, Proteogenomics, Variant calling	Mycobacterium avium is one of the prominent disease-causing bacteria in humans. It causes lymphadenitis, chronic and extrapulmonary, and disseminated infections in adults, children, and immunocompromised patients. M. avium has ~4500 predicted protein-coding regions on average, which can help discover several variants at the proteome level. Many of them are potentially associated with virulence; thus, identifying such proteins can be a helpful feature in developing panel-based theranostics. In line with such a long-term goal, we carried out an in-depth proteomic analysis of M. avium with both data-dependent and data-independent acquisition methods. Further, a set of proteogenomic investigations were carried out using (i) a protein database for Mycobacterium tuberculosis, (ii) an M. avium genome six-frame-translated database, and (iii) a variant protein database of M. avium. A search of mass spectrometry data against M. avium protein database resulted in identifying 2954 proteins. Further, proteogenomic analyses aided in identifying 1301 novel peptide sequences and correcting translation start sites for 15 proteins. Ultimately, we created a spectral library of M. avium proteins, including novel genome search-specific peptides and variant peptides detected in this study. We validated the spectral library by a data-independent acquisition of the M. avium proteome. Thus, we present an M. avium spectral library of 29,033 peptide precursors supported by 0.4 million fragment ions for further use by the biomedical community.
PXD025737	36949199	RHOJ controls EMT-associated resistance to chemotherapy. 	RhoJ controls EMT associated resistance to chemotherapy	Cancer, EMT, RHOJ, Therapy resistance	The resistance of cancer cells to therapy is responsible for the death of most patients with cancer(1). Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has been associated with resistance to therapy in different cancer cells(2,3). However, the mechanisms by which EMT mediates resistance to therapy remain poorly understood. Here, using a mouse model of skin squamous cell carcinoma undergoing spontaneous EMT during tumorigenesis, we found that EMT tumour cells are highly resistant to a wide range of anti-cancer therapies both in vivo and in vitro. Using gain and loss of function studies in vitro and in vivo, we found that RHOJ-a small GTPase that is preferentially expressed in EMT cancer cells-controls resistance to therapy. Using genome-wide transcriptomic and proteomic profiling, we found that RHOJ regulates EMT-associated resistance to chemotherapy by enhancing the response to replicative stress and activating the DNA-damage response, enabling tumour cells to rapidly repair DNA lesions induced by chemotherapy. RHOJ interacts with proteins that regulate nuclear actin, and inhibition of actin polymerization sensitizes EMT tumour cells to chemotherapy-induced cell death in a RHOJ-dependent manner. Together, our study uncovers the role and the mechanisms through which RHOJ acts as a key regulator of EMT-associated resistance to chemotherapy.
PXD039381	36949424	Proteomic analysis of sialoliths from calcified, lipid and mixed groups as a source of potential biomarkers of deposit formation in the salivary glands. 	Proteomic analysis of sialoliths from calcified, lipid and mixed groups as a source of potential biomarkers of deposit formation in the salivary glands.	SWATH-MS, functional analysis, salivary stones, sialolithiasis	Salivary stones, also known as sialoliths, are formed in a pathological situation in the salivary glands. So far, neither the mechanism of their formation nor the factors predisposing to their formation are known despite several hypotheses. While they do not directly threaten human life, they significantly deteriorate the patient's quality of life. Although this is not a typical research material, attempts are made to apply various analytical tools to characterise sialoliths and search for the biomarkers in their proteomes. In this work, we used mass spectrometry and SWATH-MS qualitative and quantitative analysis to investigate the composition and select proteins that may contribute to solid deposits in the salivary glands. Twenty sialoliths, previously characterized spectroscopically and divided into the following groups: calcified (CAL), lipid (LIP) and mixed (MIX), were used for the study. Proteins unique for each of the groups were found, including: for the CAL group among them, e.g. proteins from the S100 group (S100 A8/A12 and P), mucin 7 (MUC7), keratins (KRT1/2/4/5/13), elastase (ELANE) or stomatin (STOM); proteins for the LIP group-transthyretin (TTR), lactotransferrin (LTF), matrix Gla protein (MPG), submandibular gland androgen-regulated protein 3 (SMR3A); mixed stones had the fewest unique proteins. Bacterial proteins present in sialoliths have also been identified. The analysis of the results indicates the possible role of bacterial infections, disturbances in calcium metabolism and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) in the formation of sialoliths.
PXD039514	36950017	Evaluation of therapeutic effects of tetramethylpyrazine nitrone in Alzheimer's disease mouse model and proteomics analysis. 	Evaluation of therapeutic effects of tetramethylpyrazine nitrone in Alzheimer's disease mouse model and proteomics analysis	Alzheimer's disease, Amyloid beta, PINK1., Proteomic analysis, Tetramethylpyrazine nitrone	The pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is multifactorial with characteristic extracellular accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) and intraneuronal aggregation of hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain. Development of disease-modifying treatment for AD has been challenging. Recent studies suggest that deleterious alterations in neurovascular cells happens in parallel with Abeta accumulation, inducing tau pathology and necroptosis. Therefore, therapies targeting cellular Abeta and tau pathologies may provide a more effective strategy of disease intervention. Tetramethylpyrazine nitrone (TBN) is a nitrone derivative of tetramethylpyrazine, an active ingredient from Ligusticum wallichii Franchat (Chuanxiong). We previously showed that TBN is a potent scavenger of free radicals with multi-targeted neuroprotective effects in rat and monkey models of ischemic stroke. The present study aimed to investigate the anti-AD properties of TBN. We employed AD-related cellular model (N2a/APPswe) and transgenic mouse model (3xTg-AD mouse) for mechanistic and behavioral studies. Our results showed that TBN markedly improved cognitive functions and reduced Abeta and hyperphosphorylated tau levels in mouse model. Further investigation of the underlying mechanisms revealed that TBN promoted non-amyloidogenic processing pathway of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in N2a/APPswe in vitro. Moreover, TBN preserved synapses from dendritic spine loss and upregulated synaptic protein expressions in 3xTg-AD mice. Proteomic analysis of 3xTg-AD mouse hippocampal and cortical tissues showed that TBN induced neuroprotective effects through modulating mitophagy, MAPK and mTOR pathways. In particular, TBN significantly upregulated PINK1, a key protein for mitochondrial homeostasis, implicating PINK1 as a potential therapeutic target for AD. In summary, TBN improved cognitive functions in AD-related mouse model, inhibited Abeta production and tau hyperphosphorylation, and rescued synaptic loss and neuronal damage. Multiple mechanisms underlie the anti-AD effects of TBN including the modulation of APP processing, mTOR signaling and PINK1-related mitophagy.
PXD035060	36950557	Updating "Data on changes in lipid profiles during the differentiation and maturation of human subcutaneous white adipocytes analyzed using chromatographic and bioinformatic tools" with data on the changes in protein profiles. 	Data on the change in the protein profiles of human subcutaneous white adipocytes during differentiation and maturation	Subcutaneous adipocytes, Subcutaneous preadipocytes	Previously, we reported changes in the lipid profile of cultured human subcutaneous white preadipocytes during their differentiation and maturation. Here, using the same cells, we report changes in the protein profiles during differentiation and maturation as multi-omics data. The three cell lines of Caucasian-derived subcutaneous preadipocytes were divided into five stages: stage-1, subcutaneous preadipocytes; stage-2, following induction of differentiation into adipocytes; stages-3 to -5, from the initiation of lipid droplet formation to mature subcutaneous adipocytes (depending on the lipid droplet amount and formation). In each stage, proteins were extracted from the cells, proteolytically cleaved, and analyzed using untargeted liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. The proteins were then identified and statistically analyzed. A total of 1,871 proteins were identified with high confidence, of which, 381 were statistically significant (P-value < 0.05) between any two stages. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis revealed that the proteins significantly altered during the differentiation and maturation of preadipocytes were enriched in various pathways, including "ribosome," "Coronavirus disease-COVID-19," and "extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction" (FDR < 0.05).
PXD031525	36951107	Cryo-EM reconstruction of the human 40S ribosomal subunit at 2.15 Aa resolution. 	40S peak fraction from human Expi293 cells	40S ribosomal subunit, ribosome	The chemical modification of ribosomal RNA and proteins is critical for ribosome assembly, for protein synthesis and may drive ribosome specialisation in development and disease. However, the inability to accurately visualise these modifications has limited mechanistic understanding of the role of these modifications in ribosome function. Here we report the 2.15 Aa resolution cryo-EM reconstruction of the human 40S ribosomal subunit. We directly visualise post-transcriptional modifications within the 18S rRNA and four post-translational modifications of ribosomal proteins. Additionally, we interpret the solvation shells in the core regions of the 40S ribosomal subunit and reveal how potassium and magnesium ions establish both universally conserved and eukaryote-specific coordination to promote the stabilisation and folding of key ribosomal elements. This work provides unprecedented structural details for the human 40S ribosomal subunit that will serve as an important reference for unravelling the functional role of ribosomal RNA modifications.
PXD034942	36958626	Bioinertization of NanoLC/MS/MS Systems by Depleting Metal Ions From the Mobile Phases for Phosphoproteomics. 	Bioinertization of nanoLC/MS/MS systems by depleting metal ions from the mobile phases for phosphoproteomics	bioinert, nanoLC/MS/MS, phosphopeptides	We have successfully developed a bioinertized nanoflow LC/MS/MS (nanoLC/MS/MS) system for the highly sensitive analysis of phosphopeptides by depleting metal ions from the mobile phase. We found that not only direct contact of phosphopeptides with metal components, but also indirect contact with nanoLC pumps through the mobile phase causes significant losses during the recovery of phosphopeptides. Moreover, electrospray ionization was adversely affected by the mobile phase containing multiple metal ions as well as by the sample solvents contaminated with metal ions used in immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography for phosphopeptide enrichment. To solve these problems, metal ions were depleted by inserting an online metal ion removal device containing metal-chelating membranes between the gradient mixer and the autosampler. As a result, the peak areas of the identified phosphopeptides increased an average of 9.9-fold overall and 77-fold for multiply phosphorylated peptides with the insertion of the online metal ion removal system. This strategy would be applicable to the highly sensitive analysis of other phosphorylated biomolecules by microscale-LC/MS/MS.
PXD021492	36959177	Mena regulates nesprin-2 to control actin-nuclear lamina associations, trans-nuclear membrane signalling and gene expression. 	Characterisation of the adhesome of patient-derived cutaneous squamous carcinoma cells	adhesion, adhesome, cancer	Interactions between cells and the extracellular matrix, mediated by integrin adhesion complexes, play key roles in fundamental cellular processes, including the sensing and transduction of mechanical cues. Here, we investigate systems-level changes in the integrin adhesome in patient-derived cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma cells and identify the actin regulatory protein Mena as a key node in the adhesion complex network. Mena is connected within a subnetwork of actin-binding proteins to the LINC complex component nesprin-2, with which it interacts and co-localises at the nuclear envelope. Moreover, Mena potentiates the interactions of nesprin-2 with the actin cytoskeleton and the nuclear lamina. CRISPR-mediated Mena depletion causes altered nuclear morphology, reduces tyrosine phosphorylation of the nuclear membrane protein emerin and downregulates expression of the immunomodulatory gene PTX3 via the recruitment of its enhancer to the nuclear periphery. We uncover an unexpected role for Mena at the nuclear membrane, where it controls nuclear architecture, chromatin repositioning and gene expression. Our findings identify an adhesion protein that regulates gene transcription via direct signalling across the nuclear envelope.
PXD035124	36959183	Directed growth and fusion of membrane-wall microdomains requires CASP-mediated inhibition and displacement of secretory foci. 	Directed growth and fusion of membrane-wall microdomains requires CASP-mediated inhibition and displacement of secretory foci	CASP, Fusion, TurboID	Casparian strips (CS) are aligned bands of lignin-impregnated cell walls, building an extracellular diffusion barrier in roots. Their structure profoundly differs from tight junctions (TJ), analogous structures in animals. Nonetheless, CS membrane domain (CSD) proteins 1-5 (CASP1-5) are homologues of occludins, TJ components. CASP-marked membranes display cell wall (matrix) adhesion and membrane protein exclusion. A full CASP knock-out now reveals CASPs are not needed for localized lignification, since correctly positioned lignin microdomains still form in the mutant. Ultra-structurally, however, these microdomains are disorganized, showing excessive cell wall growth, lack of exclusion zone and matrix adhesion, and impaired exocyst dynamics. Proximity-labelling identifies a Rab-GTPase subfamily, known exocyst activators, as potential CASP-interactors and demonstrate their localization and function at the CSD. We propose that CASP microdomains displace initial secretory foci by excluding vesicle tethering factors, thereby ensuring rapid fusion of microdomains into a membrane-cell wall band that seals the extracellular space.
PXD038461	36959872	Electroacupuncture activated local sympathetic noradrenergic signaling to relieve synovitis and referred pain behaviors in knee osteoarthritis rats. 	Electroacupuncture Activated Local Sympathetic Noradrenergic Signaling to relieve synovitis and referred pain behaviors in KOA Rats	KOA, electroacupuncture, synovium	Introduction: Recent research has focused on the local control of articular inflammation through neuronal stimulation to avoid the systemic side effects of conventional pharmacological therapies. Electroacupuncture (EA) has been proven to be useful for inflammation suppressing and pain reduction in knee osteoarthritis (KOA) patients, yet its mechanism remains unclear. Methods: In the present study, the KOA model was established using the intra-articular injection of sodium monoiodoacetate (MIA) (1 mg/50 muL) into the knee cavity. EA was delivered at the ipsilateral ST36-GB34 acupoints. Hind paw weight-bearing and withdrawl thresholds were measured. On day 9, the histology, dep enrichment proteins, cytokines contents, immune cell population of the synovial membrane of the affected limbs were measured using HE staining, Masson staining, DIA quantitative proteomic analysis, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence staining, ELISA, and Western Blot. The ultrastructure of the saphenous nerve of the affected limb was observed using transmission electron microscopy on the 14th day after modeling. Results: The result demonstrated that EA intervention during the midterm phase of the articular inflammation alleviated inflammatory pain behaviors and cartilage damage, but not during the early phase. Mid-term EA suppressed the levels of proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 in the synovium on day 9 after MIA by elevating the level of sympathetic neurotransmitters Norepinephrine (NE) in the synovium but not systemic NE or systemic adrenaline. Selective blocking of the sympathetic function (6-OHDA) and beta2-adrenergic receptor (ICI 118,551) prevented the anti-inflammatory effects of EA. EA-induced increment of the NE in the synovium inhibited the CXCL1-CXCR2 dependent overexpression of IL-6 in the synovial macrophages in a beta2-adrenergic receptor (AR)-mediated manner. Discussion: These results revealed that EA activated sympathetic noradrenergic signaling to control local inflammation in KOA rats and contributed to the development of novel therapeutic neurostimulation strategies for inflammatory diseases.
PXD034025	36960851	DiaPASEF proteotype analysis indicates changes in cell growth and metabolic switch induced by caspase-9 inhibition in chondrogenic cells. 	Analysis of proteotype, cell growth and metabolic changes induced by caspase-9 inhibition in chondrogenic cells	DIA, MS3, caspase-9, chondrogenesis, diaPASEF, iTRAQ, metabolism, micromass cultures	Caspase-9 is the major apical caspase responsible for triggering the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Our previous study indicated that specific inhibition of caspase-9 caused microscopically evident alterations in appearance of the primary chondrogenic cultures which cannot be explained by decrease in apoptosis. To describe a complex molecular background of this effect, proteomics analysis of control and caspase-9 inhibitor-treated chondrogenic cultures were performed. Proteins were extracted, identified and quantified using LC-MS in both data dependent and data independent acquisition (DIA) mode. While directDIA analysis of diaPASEF data obtained using timsTOF Pro LC-MS system revealed 7849 protein groups (Q-value <0.01), a parallel analysis of iTRAQ-2DLC-MS3 and conventional DIA-MS data identified only 5146 and 4098 protein groups, respectively, showing diaPASEF a superior method for the study. The detailed analysis of diaPASEF data disclosed 236/551 significantly down-/up-regulated protein groups after caspase-9 inhibition, respectively (|log2FC|>0.58, Q value <0.05). Classification of downregulated proteins revealed changes in extracellular matrix organization, collagen metabolism, and muscle system processes. Moreover, deregulations suggest a switch from glycolytic to lipid based metabolism in the inhibited cells. No essential changes were found in the proteins involved in apoptosis. The data indicate new non-apoptotic participation of caspases in chondrocyte homeostasis with potential applications in cartilage pathophysiology.
PXD030775	36961872	Multiomics-empowered Deep Phenotyping of Ulcerative Colitis Identifies Biomarker Signatures Reporting Functional Remission States. 	Exploring post-genomic biomarker signatures based on pathomechanisms of ulcerative colitis	Chronic inflammation, Plasma proteomics, Remission signature, Tissue proteomics, Ulcerative colitis	INTRODUCTION: Ulcerative colitis [UC] is a chronic disease with rising incidence and unclear aetiology. Deep molecular phenotyping by multiomics analyses may provide novel insights into disease processes and characteristic features of remission states. METHODS: UC pathomechanisms were assessed by proteome profiling of human tissue specimens, obtained from five distinct colon locations for each of the 12 patients included in the study. Systemic disease-associated alterations were evaluated thanks to a cross-sectional setting of mass spectrometry-based multiomics analyses comprising proteins, metabolites, and eicosanoids of plasma obtained from UC patients during acute episodes and upon remission, in comparison with healthy controls. RESULTS: Tissue proteome profiling indicated colitis-associated activation of neutrophils, macrophages, B and T cells, fibroblasts, endothelial cells and platelets, and hypoxic stress, and suggested a general downregulation of mitochondrial proteins accompanying the establishment of apparent wound healing-promoting activities including scar formation. Whereas pro-inflammatory proteins were apparently upregulated by immune cells, the colitis-associated epithelial cells, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and platelets seemed to predominantly contribute anti-inflammatory and wound healing-promoting proteins. Blood plasma proteomics indicated chronic inflammation and platelet activation, whereas plasma metabolomics identified disease-associated deregulations of gut and gut microbiome-derived metabolites. Upon remission several, but not all, molecular candidate biomarker levels recovered back to normal. CONCLUSION: The findings may indicate that microvascular damage and platelet deregulation hardly resolve upon remission, but apparently persist as disease-associated molecular signatures. This study presents local and systemic molecular alterations integrated in a model for UC pathomechanisms, potentially supporting the assessment of disease and remission states in UC patients.
PXD039394	36961927	circNEIL3 inhibits tumor metastasis through recruiting the E3 ubiquitin ligase Nedd4L to degrade YBX1. 	IP-MS:Protein precipitated by antisense (AS) DNA oligomers crossing the junction site of circNEIL3	Gel-based proteomics, MDA-MB-231 cell line, RNA-pulldown	Distant metastasis is a major contributor to cancer-related mortality. However, the role of circRNAs in this process remains unclear. Herein, we profiled the circRNA expression in a cohort of 68 colorectal carcinoma (CRC) primary tumors and their paired liver metastatic lesions. By overlapping with the TGFbeta-responsive circRNAs, circNEIL3 (hsa_circ_0001460) was identified as a TGFbeta-repressive and metastasis-related circRNA. Functionally, circNEIL3 effectively inhibited tumor metastasis in both and in vivo and in vivo models of various cancer types. Mechanistically, circNEIL3 exerts its metastasis-repressive function through its direct interaction with oncogenic protein, Y-box-binding protein 1 (YBX1), which consequently promotes the Nedd4L-mediated proteasomal degradation of YBX1. Importantly, circNEIL3 expression was negatively correlated to YBX1 protein level and metastatic tendency in CRC patient samples. Collectively, our findings indicate the YBX1-dependent antimetastatic function of circNEIL3 and highlight the potential of circNEIL3 as a biomarker and therapeutic option in cancer treatment.
PXD038842	36964131	Calpain activity is negatively regulated by a KCTD7-Cullin-3 complex via non-degradative ubiquitination. 	Calpain activity is regulated by a KCTD7-cullin 3 complex via non-degradative ubiquitination	Calpain, PASEF	Calpains are a class of non-lysosomal cysteine proteases that exert their regulatory functions via limited proteolysis of their substrates. Similar to the lysosomal and proteasomal systems, calpain dysregulation is implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease and cancer. Despite intensive efforts placed on the identification of mechanisms that regulate calpains, however, calpain protein modifications that regulate calpain activity are incompletely understood. Here we show that calpains are regulated by KCTD7, a cytosolic protein of previously uncharacterized function whose pathogenic mutations result in epilepsy, progressive ataxia, and severe neurocognitive deterioration. We show that KCTD7 works in complex with Cullin-3 and Rbx1 to execute atypical, non-degradative ubiquitination of calpains at specific sites (K398 of calpain 1, and K280 and K674 of calpain 2). Experiments based on single-lysine mutants of ubiquitin determined that KCTD7 mediates ubiquitination of calpain 1 via K6-, K27-, K29-, and K63-linked chains, whereas it uses K6-mediated ubiquitination to modify calpain 2. Loss of KCTD7-mediated ubiquitination of calpains led to calpain hyperactivation, aberrant cleavage of downstream targets, and caspase-3 activation. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of Kctd7 in mice phenotypically recapitulated human KCTD7 deficiency and resulted in calpain hyperactivation, behavioral impairments, and neurodegeneration. These phenotypes were largely prevented by pharmacological inhibition of calpains, thus demonstrating a major role of calpain dysregulation in KCTD7-associated disease. Finally, we determined that Cullin-3-KCTD7 mediates ubiquitination of all ubiquitous calpains. These results unveil a novel mechanism and potential target to restrain calpain activity in human disease and shed light on the molecular pathogenesis of KCTD7-associated disease.
PXD036171	36964488	Study of FOXO1-interacting proteins using TurboID-based proximity labeling technology. 	Study of interacting proteins of FOXO1 using TurboID-based proximity labeling technology	FOXO1, TurboID, U251, biotin labeling, hnRNPK.	BACKGROUND: Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are the foundation of the life activities of cells. TurboID is a biotin ligase with higher catalytic efficiency than BioID or APEX that reduces the required labeling time from 18 h to 10 min. Since many proteins participate in binding and catalytic events that are very short-lived, it is theoretically possible to find relatively novel binding proteins using the TurboID technique. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, autophagy, oxidative stress and metabolic disorders underlie many diseases, and forkhead box transcription factor 1 (FOXO1) plays a key role in these physiological and pathological processes. RESULTS: The FOXO1-TurboID fusion gene was transfected into U251 astrocytes, and a cell line stably expressing FOXO1 was constructed. While constructing the FOXO1 overexpression plasmid, we also added the gene sequence of TurboID to perform biotin labeling experiments in the successfully fabricated cell line to look for FOXO1 reciprocal proteins. Label-free mass spectrometry analysis was performed, and 325 interacting proteins were found. A total of 176 proteins were identified in the FOXO1 overexpression group, and 227 proteins were identified in the Lipopolysaccharide -treated group (Lipopolysaccharide, LPS). Wild-type U251 cells were used to exclude interference from nonspecific binding. The FOXO1-interacting proteins hnRNPK and RBM14 were selected for immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence verification. CONCLUSION: The TurboID technique was used to select the FOXO1-interacting proteins, and after removing the proteins identified in the blank group, a large number of interacting proteins were found in both positive groups. This study lays a foundation for further study of the function of FOXO1 and the regulatory network in which it is involved.
PXD038125	36965032	Long noncoding RNAs with peptide-encoding potential identified in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: KDM4A-AS1-encoded peptide weakens cancer cell viability and migratory capacity. 	Identification interactional proteins related with KDM4A-AS1-encoded peptides in HEK293T	IP-MS, KDM4A-AS1-encoded peptides	Currently, the knowledge of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA)-encoded peptides is quite lacking in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). In this study, we simultaneously identified six lncRNA open reading frames (ORFs) with peptide-coding abilities including lysine-specific demethylase 4A antisense RNA 1 (KDM4A-AS1) ORF by combining weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) for ESCC clinical samples, ribosome footprints, ORF prediction, mass spectrometry (MS) identification, and western blotting. KDM4A-AS1 ORF-encoded peptide reduced ESCC cell viability and migratory ability. Co-immunoprecipitation and MS analysis revealed that KDM4A-AS1-encoded peptide specifically bound with 103 proteins in ESCC cells, and enrichment analysis suggested that peptide-bound proteins were related to fatty acid metabolism and redox process. Cell and molecular experiments demonstrated that KDM4A-AS1-encoded peptide inhibited stearoyl-CoA desaturase and fatty acid synthase expression, increased reactive oxygen species level, and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential in ESCC cells. In summary, multiple lncRNAs with translation potential were simultaneously identified by combining multiple approaches in ESCC, providing novel identification strategies for lncRNA-encoded peptides. Moreover, lncRNA KDM4A-AS1-encoded peptide weakened ESCC cell viability and migratory capacity and functioned in fatty acid metabolism and redox process.
PXD035473	36965071	DDRGK1 Enhances Osteosarcoma Chemoresistance via Inhibiting KEAP1-Mediated NRF2 Ubiquitination. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals novel function of DDRGK1 in osteosarcoma	DDRGK1, osteosarcoma	Chemoresistance is the main obstacle in osteosarcoma (OS) treatment; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, it is discovered that DDRGK domain-containing protein 1 (DDRGK1) plays a fundamental role in chemoresistance induced in OS. Bioinformatic and tissue analyses indicate that higher expression of DDRGK1 correlates with advanced tumor stage and poor clinical prognosis of OS. Quantitative proteomic analyses suggest that DDRGK1 plays a critical role in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. DDRGK1 knockout trigger the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and attenuate the stability of nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 (NRF2), a major antioxidant response element. Furthermore, DDRGK1 inhibits ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation of NRF2 via competitive binding to the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1) protein, which recruits NRF2 to CULLIN(CUL3). DDRGK1 knockout attenuates NRF2 stability, contributing to ROS accumulation, which promotes apoptosis and enhanced chemosensitivity to doxorubicin (DOX) and etoposide in cancer cells. Indeed, DDRGK1 knockout significantly enhances osteosarcoma chemosensitivity to DOX in vivo. The combination of DDRGK1 knockdown and DOX treatment provides a promising new avenue for the effective treatment of OS.
PXD038961	36966136	Integrative proteogenomic characterization of early esophageal cancer. 	Integrative Proteogenomic Characterization of Early Esophageal Cancer	early esophageal cancer, genome, phosphoproteome	Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is malignant while the carcinogenesis is still unclear. Here, we perform a comprehensive multi-omics analysis of 786 trace-tumor-samples from 154 ESCC patients, covering 9 histopathological stages and 3 phases. Proteogenomics elucidates cancer-driving waves in ESCC progression, and reveals the molecular characterization of alcohol drinking habit associated signatures. We discover chromosome 3q gain functions in the transmit from nontumor to intraepithelial neoplasia phases, and find TP53 mutation enhances DNA replication in intraepithelial neoplasia phase. The mutations of AKAP9 and MCAF1 upregulate glycolysis and Wnt signaling, respectively, in advanced-stage ESCC phase. Six major tracks related to different clinical features during ESCC progression are identified, which is validated by an independent cohort with another 256 samples. Hyperphosphorylated phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1, S203) is considered as a drug target in ESCC progression. This study provides insight into the understanding of ESCC molecular mechanism and the development of therapeutic targets.
PXD040392	36966145	Distribution of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in non-diseased brain implicates olfactory bulb mitral cells in synucleinopathy pathogenesis. 	Distribution of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in non-diseased brain implicates olfactory bulb mitral cells in synucleinopathy pathogenesis.	neurodegeneration, protein aggregation., vesicles	Synucleinopathies are neurodegenerative diseases characterized by pathological inclusions called "Lewy pathology" (LP) that consist of aggregated alpha-synuclein predominantly phosphorylated at serine 129 (PSER129). Despite the importance for understanding disease, little is known about the endogenous function of PSER129 or why it accumulates in the diseased brain. Here we conducted several observational studies using a sensitive tyramide signal amplification (TSA) technique to determine PSER129 distribution and function in the non-diseased mammalian brain. In wild-type non-diseased mice, PSER129 was detected in the olfactory bulb (OB) and several brain regions across the neuroaxis (i.e., OB to brainstem). In contrast, PSER129 immunoreactivity was not observed in any brain region of alpha-synuclein knockout mice. We found evidence of PSER129 positive structures in OB mitral cells of non-diseased mice, rats, non-human primates, and healthy humans. Using TSA multiplex fluorescent labeling, we showed that PSER129 positive punctate structures occur within inactive (i.e., c-fos negative) T-box transcription factor 21 (TBX21) positive mitral cells and PSER129 within these cells was spatially associated with PK-resistant alpha-synuclein. Ubiquitin was found in PSER129 mitral cells but was not closely associated with PSER129. Biotinylation by antibody recognition (BAR) identified 125 PSER129-interacting proteins in the OB of healthy mice, which were significantly enriched for presynaptic vesicle trafficking/recycling, SNARE, fatty acid oxidation, oxidative phosphorylation, and RNA binding. TSA multiplex labeling confirmed the physical association of BAR-identified protein Ywhag with PSER129 in the OB and in other regions across the neuroaxis. We conclude that PSER129 accumulates in the mitral cells of the healthy OB as part of alpha-synuclein normal cellular functions. Incidental LP has been reported in the OB, and therefore we speculate that for synucleinopathies, either the disease processes begin locally in OB mitral cells or a systemic disease process is most apparent in the OB because of the natural tendency to accumulate PSER129.
PXD040544	36966392	Proximity labeling reveals OTUD3 as a DNA-binding deubiquitinase of cGAS. 	Proximity labeling reveals OTUD3 as a DNA-binding deubiquitinase of cGAS	Proximity Labeling, cGAS	Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), as the major DNA sensor, initiates DNA-stimulated innate immune responses and is essential for a healthy immune system. Although some regulators of cGAS have been reported, it still remains largely unclear how cGAS is precisely and dynamically regulated and how many potential regulators govern cGAS. Here we carry out proximity labeling of cGAS with TurboID in cells and identify a number of potential cGAS-interacting or -adjacent proteins. Deubiquitinase OTUD3, one candidate identified in cytosolic cGAS-DNA complex, is further validated to not only stabilize cGAS but also enhance cGAS enzymatic activity, which eventually promotes anti-DNA virus immune response. We show that OTUD3 can directly bind DNA and is recruited to the cytosolic DNA complex, increasing its association with cGAS. Our findings reveal OTUD3 as a versatile cGAS regulator and find one more layer of regulatory mechanism in DNA-stimulated innate immune responses.
PXD039058	36967377	Proteomic characteristics and diagnostic potential of exhaled breath particles in patients with COVID-19. 	Proteomic characteristics and diagnostic potential of exhaled breath particles in patients with COVID-19	COVID-19, Covid-19, Exhaled breath particles, Lung, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2	BACKGROUND: SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to predominantly infect the airways and the respiratory tract and too often have an unpredictable and different pathologic pattern compared to other respiratory diseases. Current clinical diagnostical tools in pulmonary medicine expose patients to harmful radiation, are too unspecific or even invasive. Proteomic analysis of exhaled breath particles (EBPs) in contrast, are non-invasive, sample directly from the pathological source and presents as a novel explorative and diagnostical tool. METHODS: Patients with PCR-verified COVID-19 infection (COV-POS, n = 20), and patients with respiratory symptoms but with > 2 negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests (COV-NEG, n = 16) and healthy controls (HCO, n = 12) were prospectively recruited. EBPs were collected using a "particles in exhaled air" (PExA 2.0) device. Particle per exhaled volume (PEV) and size distribution profiles were compared. Proteins were analyzed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A random forest machine learning classification model was then trained and validated on EBP data achieving an accuracy of 0.92. RESULTS: Significant increases in PEV and changes in size distribution profiles of EBPs was seen in COV-POS and COV-NEG compared to healthy controls. We achieved a deep proteome profiling of EBP across the three groups with proteins involved in immune activation, acute phase response, cell adhesion, blood coagulation, and known components of the respiratory tract lining fluid, among others. We demonstrated promising results for the use of an integrated EBP biomarker panel together with particle concentration for diagnosis of COVID-19 as well as a robust method for protein identification in EBPs. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate the promising potential for the use of EBP fingerprints in biomarker discovery and for diagnosing pulmonary diseases, rapidly and non-invasively with minimal patient discomfort.
PXD040110	36968072	Multi-omics analysis reveals underlying host responses in pediatric respiratory syncytial virus pneumonia. 	Multi-omics AnalysisIntegrated Proteomic and Metabolomic Analysis Reveals Underlying Host Responses in Pediatric Respiratory Syncytial Virus Pneumonia	Respiratory syncytial virus pneumonia,Proteomics,Metabolomics,Diagnosis,Protein-Metabolites Crosstalk.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is an important pathogen causing pneumonia in children. Few studies have used multi-omics data to investigate the pathogenies of RSV pneumonia. Here, metabolomics was first used to identify potential biomarkers for RSV diagnosis. In the training cohort, serum from 36 healthy controls (HCs), 45 RSV pneumonia children, and 32 infectious disease controls (IDCs) were recruited. After analyses, six metabolites had potential diagnostic value. Using an independent cohort of 49 subjects, two biomarkers (neuromedin N and histidyl-proline diketopiperazine) were validated. Next, multi-omics analysis were applied to analyze the pathogenies of RSV pneumonia. Accumulation of collagen in the serum of RSVs indicated that RSV infection could lead to increased levels of soluble collage. Activation of the complement system and imbalance in lipid metabolism were also observed in RSV patients. The multi-omics analysis presented here revealed the signature protein and metabolite changes in serum caused by RSV infection.
PXD036109	36968081	MicroRNAs emerging coordinate with placental mammals alter pathways in endometrial epithelia important for endometrial function. 	Placental mammal derived microRNAs alter pathways in the endometrial epithelia important for endometrial function	endometrium, microRNA, placental mammals	We tested the hypothesis that conserved placental mammal-specific microRNAs and their targets facilitate endometrial receptivity to implantation. Expression of miR-340-5p, -542-3p, and -671-5p was regulated by exposure of endometrial epithelial cells to progesterone (10 mug/ml) for 24 h coordinate with 1,713 of their predicted targets. Proteomic analysis of cells transfected with miRNA mimic/inhibitor (48 h: n = 3) revealed 1,745 proteins altered by miR-340-5p (mimic; 1,369, inhibitor; 376) of which 171 were predicted targets and P4-regulated. MiR-542-3p altered 2,353 (mimic; 1,378, inhibitor; 975) 100 which were mirDB predicted, including 46 P4-regulated. MiR-671-5p altered 1,744 proteins (mimic; 1,252, inhibitor; 492) 95 of which were predicted targets and 46 P4-regulated. All miRNAs were detected in luteal phase endometrial biopsies, irrespective of pregnancy outcomes. miR-340-5p expression increased in biopsies from individuals suffering previous and subsequent miscarriage compared to those with subsequent live birth. Dysfunction of these miRNAs and their targets contribute to endometrial-derived recurrent pregnancy loss.
PXD037070	36968139	Mouse Stromal Cells Confound Proteomic Characterization and Quantification of Xenograft Models. 	Mouse Stromal Cells Confound Proteomic Characterization and Quantification of Xenograft Models	Xenograft Tumors, tandem mass tags	Xenografts are essential models for studying cancer biology and developing oncology drugs, and are more informative with omics data. Most reported xenograft proteomics projects directly profiled tumors comprising human cancer cells and mouse stromal cells, followed by computational algorithms for assigning peptides to human and mouse proteins. We evaluated the performance of three main algorithms by carrying out benchmark studies on a series of human and mouse cell line mixtures and a set of liver patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. Our study showed that approximately half of the characterized peptides are common between human and mouse proteins, and their allocations to human or mouse proteins cannot be satisfactorily achieved by any algorithm. As a result, many human proteins are erroneously labeled as differentially expressed proteins (DEP) between samples from the same human cell line mixed with different percentages of mouse cells, and the number of such false DEPs increases superquadratically with the mouse cell percentage. When mouse stromal cells are not removed from PDX tumors, about 30%-40% of DEPs from pairwise comparisons of PDX models are false positives, and about 20% of real DEPs cannot be identified irrespective of the threshold for calling differential expression. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that it is advisable to separate human and mouse cells in xenograft tumors before proteomic profiling to obtain more accurate measurement of species-specific protein expression. Significance: This study advocates the separate-then-run over the run-then-separate approach as a better strategy for more reliable proteomic profiling of xenografts.
PXD034397	36968141	Structures of Cancer Antigen Mesothelin and Its Complexes with Therapeutic Antibodies. 	Structure of Cancer Antigen Mesothelin and Its Complex with Therapeutic Antibodies	Crystal structure, antibody, cancer marker, mesothelin, molecular recognition	The tumor-associated antigen mesothelin is expressed at high levels on the cell surface of many human cancers, while its expression in normal tissues is limited. The binding of mesothelin to the tumor-associated cancer antigen 125 (CA-125) can lead to heterotypic cell adhesion and tumor metastasis within the pleural and peritoneal cavities. Immunotherapeutic strategies targeting mesothelin are being intensively investigated. Here, we report the crystal structures of mesothelin that reveal a compact, right-handed solenoid consisting of 24 short helices and connecting loops. These helices form a nine-layered spiral coil that resembles ARM/HEAT family proteins. Glycan attachments have been identified in the structure for all three predicted N-glycosylation sites and confirmed with samples from cell culture and patient ascites. The structures of full-length mesothelin and its complex with the Fab of MORAb-009 reveal the interaction of the antibody with the complete epitope, which has not been reported previously. The N-terminal half of mesothelin is conformationally rigid, suitable for eliciting specific antibodies, whereas its C-terminal portion is more flexible. The structure of the C-terminal shedding-resistant fragment of mesothelin complexed with a mAb 15B6 displays an extended linear epitope and helps explain the protection afforded by the antibody for the shedding sites. Significance: The structures of full-length mesothelin and its complexes with antibodies reported here are the first to be determined experimentally, providing atomic models for structural organization of this protein and its interactions with antibodies. It offers insights into the function of mesothelin and guidance for further development of therapeutic antibodies.
PXD036570	36968537	Stereoretentive Post-Translational Protein Editing. 	Stereoretentive Post-Translational Protein Editing	LCMS, PstS, chemical modification, protein editing, stereoretentive	Chemical post-translational methods allow convergent side-chain editing of proteins without needing to resort to genetic intervention. Current approaches that allow the creation of constitutionally native side chains via C-C bond formation, using off-protein carbon-centered C. radicals added to unnatural amino acid radical acceptor (SOMOphile, singly occupied molecular orbital (SOMO)) "tags" such as dehydroalanine, are benign and wide-ranging. However, they also typically create epimeric mixtures of d/l-residues. Here, we describe a light-mediated desulfurative method that, through the creation and reaction of stereoretained on-proteinl-alanyl Cbeta. radicals, allows Cbeta-Hgamma, Cbeta-Ogamma, Cbeta-Segamma, Cbeta-Bgamma, and Cbeta-Cgamma bond formation to flexibly generate site-selectively edited proteins with full retention of native stereochemistry under mild conditions from a natural amino acid precursor. This methodology shows great potential to explore protein side-chain diversity and function and in the construction of useful bioconjugates.
PXD028285	36971093	ATM inhibition enhances the efficacy of radiation across distinct molecular subgroups of pediatric high-grade glioma. 	Deep proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of DIPG responses to radiation therapy	DIPG, cancer, phosphoproteome, radiation therapy	BACKGROUND: Pediatric high-grade glioma (pHGG) is largely incurable and accounts for most brain tumor-related deaths in children. Radiation is a standard therapy, yet the benefit from this treatment modality is transient, and most children succumb to disease within 2 years. Recent large-scale genomic studies suggest that pHGG has alterations in DNA damage response (DDR) pathways that induce resistance to DNA damaging agents. The aim of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic potential and molecular consequences of combining radiation with selective DDR inhibition in pHGG. METHODS: We conducted an unbiased screen in pHGG cells that combined radiation with clinical candidates targeting the DDR and identified the ATM inhibitor AZD1390. Subsequently, we profiled AZD1390 + radiation in an extensive panel of early passage pHGG cell lines, mechanistically characterized response to the combination in vitro in sensitive and resistant cells and evaluated the combination in vivo using TP53 wild-type and TP53 mutant orthotopic xenografts. RESULTS: AZD1390 significantly potentiated radiation across molecular subgroups of pHGG by increasing mutagenic nonhomologous end joining and augmenting genomic instability. In contrast to previous reports, ATM inhibition significantly improved the efficacy of radiation in both TP53 wild-type and TP53 mutant isogenic cell lines and distinct orthotopic xenograft models. Furthermore, we identified a novel mechanism of resistance to AZD1390 + radiation that was marked by an attenuated ATM pathway response which dampened sensitivity to ATM inhibition and induced synthetic lethality with ATR inhibition. CONCLUSIONS: Our study supports the clinical evaluation of AZD1390 in combination with radiation in pediatric patients with HGG.
PXD040188	36971330	Proteomics analysis of human breast milk by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) coupled with mass spectrometry to assess breast cancer risk. 	Proteomics analysis of human breast milk by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoressi (2D-PAGE) coupled with mass spectrometry to assess breast cancer risk	2D-PAGE, Biomarkers, Breast cancer, Breast milk, Mass spec-trometry, Protein dysregulation	Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most common cancers and one of the most common causes for cancer-related mortality. Discovery of protein biomarkers associated with cancer is considered important for early diagnosis and prediction of the cancer risk. Protein biomarkers could be investigated by large-scale protein investigation or proteomics, using mass spectrometry (MS)-based techniques. Our group applies MS-based proteomics to study the protein pattern in human breast milk from women with BC and controls and investigates the alterations and dysregulations of breast milk proteins in comparison pairs of BC versus control. These dysregulated proteins might be considered potential future biomarkers of BC. Identification of potential biomarkers in breast milk may benefit young women without BC, but who could collect the milk for future assessment of BC risk. Previously we identified several dysregulated proteins in different sets of human breast milk samples from BC patients and controls using gel-based protein separation coupled with MS. Here, we performed 2D-PAGE coupled with nano-liquid chromatography-tandem MS (nanoLC-MS/MS) in a small-scale study on a set of six human breast milk pairs (three BC samples vs. three controls) and we identified several dysregulated proteins that have potential roles in cancer progression and might be considered potential BC biomarkers in the future.
PXD038382	36971515	Enriching Cysteine-Containing Peptides Using a Sulfhydryl-Reactive Alkylating Reagent with a Phosphonic Acid Group and Immobilized Metal Affinity Chromatography. 	Enriching cysteine-containing peptides using a sulfhydryl-reactive alkylating reagent with a phosphonic acid group, and immobilized metal affinity chromatography	CysPAT, FAIMS, Fe3+-NTA, Orbitrap Eclipse, TMTpro, isobaric tagging	The reduction of disulfide bonds and their subsequent alkylation are commonplace in typical proteomics workflows. Here, we highlight a sulfhydryl-reactive alkylating reagent with a phosphonic acid group (iodoacetamido-LC-phosphonic acid, 6C-CysPAT) that facilitates the enrichment of cysteine-containing peptides for isobaric tag-based proteome abundance profiling. Specifically, we profile the proteome of the SH-SY5Y human cell line following 24 h treatments with two proteasome inhibitors (bortezomib and MG-132) in a tandem mass tag (TMT)pro9-plex experiment. We acquire three datasets-(1) Cys-peptide enriched, (2) the unbound complement, and (3) the non-depleted control-and compare the peptides and proteins quantified in each dataset, with emphasis on Cys-containing peptides. The data show that enrichment using 6C-Cys phosphonate adaptable tag (6C-CysPAT) can quantify over 38,000 Cys-containing peptides in 5 h with >90% specificity. In addition, our combined dataset provides the research community with a resource of over 9900 protein abundance profiles exhibiting the effects of two different proteasome inhibitors. Overall, the seamless incorporation of alkylation by 6C-CysPAT into a current TMT-based workflow permits the enrichment of a Cys-containing peptide subproteome. The acquisition of this "mini-Cys" dataset can be used to preview and assess the quality of a deep, fractionated dataset.
PXD040460	36973244	Cryo-EM structure of human eIF5A-DHS complex reveals the molecular basis of hypusination-associated neurodegenerative disorders. 	Interaction of human eIF5A and DHS K329A variant studied by HDX-MS	DHS K329A variant, HDX-MS, Synapt-G2 Si, eIF5A	Hypusination is a unique post-translational modification of the eukaryotic translation factor 5A (eIF5A) that is essential for overcoming ribosome stalling at polyproline sequence stretches. The initial step of hypusination, the formation of deoxyhypusine, is catalyzed by deoxyhypusine synthase (DHS), however, the molecular details of the DHS-mediated reaction remained elusive. Recently, patient-derived variants of DHS and eIF5A have been linked to rare neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we present the cryo-EM structure of the human eIF5A-DHS complex at 2.8 Aa resolution and a crystal structure of DHS trapped in the key reaction transition state. Furthermore, we show that disease-associated DHS variants influence the complex formation and hypusination efficiency. Hence, our work dissects the molecular details of the deoxyhypusine synthesis reaction and reveals how clinically-relevant mutations affect this crucial cellular process.
PXD040702	36973259	Phytochrome B photobodies are comprised of phytochrome B and its primary and secondary interacting proteins. 	Phytochrome B photobodies are comprised of phytochrome B and its primary and secondary interacting proteins	Photobody, Phytochrome	Phytochrome B (phyB) is a plant photoreceptor that forms a membraneless organelle called a photobody. However, its constituents are not fully known. Here, we isolated phyB photobodies from Arabidopsis leaves using fluorescence-activated particle sorting and analyzed their components. We found that a photobody comprises ~1,500 phyB dimers along with other proteins that could be classified into two groups: The first includes proteins that directly interact with phyB and localize to the photobody when expressed in protoplasts, while the second includes proteins that interact with the first group proteins and require co-expression of a first-group protein to localize to the photobody. As an example of the second group, TOPLESS interacts with PHOTOPERIODIC CONTROL OF HYPOCOTYL 1 (PCH1) and localizes to the photobody when co-expressed with PCH1. Together, our results support that phyB photobodies include not only phyB and its primary interacting proteins but also its secondary interacting proteins.
PXD039478	36973273	Enhanced Ca(2+)-channeling complex formation at the ER-mitochondria interface underlies the pathogenesis of alcohol-associated liver disease. 	Enhanced Ca2+-channeling complex formation at the ER-mitochondria interface underlies the pathogenesis of alcohol-associated liver disease	GRP75, PDK4, PTM, alcohol-associated liver disease, mitochondrial dysfunction	Ca(2+) overload-induced mitochondrial dysfunction is considered as a major contributing factor in the pathogenesis of alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD). However, the initiating factors that drive mitochondrial Ca(2+) accumulation in ALD remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that an aberrant increase in hepatic GRP75-mediated mitochondria-associated ER membrane (MAM) Ca(2+)-channeling (MCC) complex formation promotes mitochondrial dysfunction in vitro and in male mouse model of ALD. Unbiased transcriptomic analysis reveals PDK4 as a prominently inducible MAM kinase in ALD. Analysis of human ALD cohorts further corroborate these findings. Additional mass spectrometry analysis unveils GRP75 as a downstream phosphorylation target of PDK4. Conversely, non-phosphorylatable GRP75 mutation or genetic ablation of PDK4 prevents alcohol-induced MCC complex formation and subsequent mitochondrial Ca(2+) accumulation and dysfunction. Finally, ectopic induction of MAM formation reverses the protective effect of PDK4 deficiency in alcohol-induced liver injury. Together, our study defines a mediatory role of PDK4 in promoting mitochondrial dysfunction in ALD.
PXD040869	36973402	Interspecies interaction reduces selection for antibiotic resistance in Escherichia coli. 	Interspecies interaction reduces selection for antibiotic resistance in Escherichia coli	Antibiotic resistance, Complex system, Evolutionary dynamics, Interspecies interactions, Nitrofurantoin	Evolution of microbial traits depends on the interaction of a species with its environment as well as with other coinhabiting species. However, our understanding of the evolution of specific microbial traits, such as antibiotic resistance in complex environments is limited. Here, we determine the role of interspecies interactions on the dynamics of nitrofurantoin (NIT) resistance selection among Escherichia coli. We created a synthetic two-species community comprised of two variants of E. coli (NIT susceptible and resistant) and Bacillus subtilis in minimal media with glucose as the sole carbon source. We show that the presence of B. subtilis significantly slows down the selection for the resistant E. coli mutant when NIT is present and that this slowdown is not due to competition for resources. Instead, the dampening of NIT resistance enrichment is largely mediated by extracellular compounds produced by B. subtilis with the peptide YydF playing a significant role. Our results not only demonstrate the impact of interspecies interactions on the evolution of microbial traits but also show the importance of using synthetic microbial systems in unravelling relevant interactions and mechanisms affecting the evolution of antibiotic resistance. This finding implies that interspecies interactions should be considered to better understand and predict resistance evolution in the clinic as well as in nature.
PXD020085	36973478	A comprehensive molecular profiling approach reveals metabolic alterations that steer bone tissue regeneration. 	Proteomic analysis of successful and biologically compromised bone fracture healing	Bone, LC-MS, Rattus norvegius	Bone regeneration after fracture is a complex process with high and dynamic energy demands. The impact of metabolism on bone healing progression and outcome, however, is so far understudied. Our comprehensive molecular profiling reveals that central metabolic pathways, such as glycolysis and the citric acid cycle, are differentially activated between rats with successful or compromised bone regeneration (young versus aged female Sprague-Dawley rats) early in the inflammatory phase of bone healing. We also found that the citric acid cycle intermediate succinate mediates individual cellular responses and plays a central role in successful bone healing. Succinate induces IL-1beta in macrophages, enhances vessel formation, increases mesenchymal stromal cell migration, and potentiates osteogenic differentiation and matrix formation in vitro. Taken together, metabolites-here particularly succinate-are shown to play central roles as signaling molecules during the onset of healing and in steering bone tissue regeneration.
PXD038502	36973556	Quantification of absolute transcription factor binding affinities in the native chromatin context using BANC-seq. 	BANC-seq to identify genome-wide transcription factor binding affinities to native chromatin	DNA pulldowns, TMT, Transcription factors, absolute quantification, binding affinity, proteomes	Transcription factor binding across the genome is regulated by DNA sequence and chromatin features. However, it is not yet possible to quantify the impact of chromatin context on transcription factor binding affinities. Here, we report a method called binding affinities to native chromatin by sequencing (BANC-seq) to determine absolute apparent binding affinities of transcription factors to native DNA across the genome. In BANC-seq, a concentration range of a tagged transcription factor is added to isolated nuclei. Concentration-dependent binding is then measured per sample to quantify apparent binding affinities across the genome. BANC-seq adds a quantitative dimension to transcription factor biology, which enables stratification of genomic targets based on transcription factor concentration and prediction of transcription factor binding sites under non-physiological conditions, such as disease-associated overexpression of (onco)genes. Notably, whereas consensus DNA binding motifs for transcription factors are important to establish high-affinity binding sites, these motifs are not always strictly required to generate nanomolar-affinity interactions in the genome.
PXD038669	36975161	A Streamlined High-Throughput Plasma Proteomics Platform for Clinical Proteomics with Improved Proteome Coverage, Reproducibility, and Robustness. 	Method development for simplified High-Throughput Plasma Proteomics	sHTPP, simplified High-Throughput Plasma Proteomics	Mass spectrometry-based clinical proteomics requires high throughput, reproducibility, robustness, and comprehensive coverage to serve the needs of clinical diagnosis, prognosis, and personalized medicine. Oftentimes these requirements are contradictory to each other. We report the development of a streamlined High-Throughput Plasma Proteomics (sHTPP) platform for untargeted profiling of the blood plasma proteome, which includes 96-well plates and simplified procedures for sample preparation, disposable trap column for peptide loading, robust liquid chromatographic system for separation, data-independent acquisition in tandem mass spectrometry, and DIA-NN, FragPipe, and in-house peptide spectral library-based data analysis. Using the optimized platform at a throughput of 60 samples per day, over 600 protein groups including 57 FDA-approved biomarkers can be consistently identified from whole human plasma, and more than 85% of the detected proteins have 100% completeness in quantitative values across 300 samples. The balance achieved between proteome coverage, throughput, and reproducibility of this sHTPP platform makes it promising in clinical settings, where a large number of samples are to be measured quickly and reliably to support various needs of clinical medicine.
PXD037966	36975497	Hypoxic Preconditioned Neural Stem Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Contain Distinct Protein Cargo from Their Normal Counterparts. 	Hypoxic preconditioned neural stem cell derived extracellular vesiclescontain distinct protein cargo from their normal counterparts	iTRAQ, mouse neural stem cell derived extracellular vesicles	Hypoxic preconditioning has been demonstrated to increase the resistance of neural stem cells (NSCs) to hypoxic conditions, as well as to improve their capacity for differentiation and neurogenesis. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have recently emerged as critical mediators of cell-cell communication, but their role in this hypoxic conditioning is presently unknown. Here, we demonstrated that three hours of hypoxic preconditioning triggers significant neural stem cell EV release. Proteomic profiling of EVs from normal and hypoxic preconditioned neural stem cells identified 20 proteins that were upregulated and 22 proteins that were downregulated after hypoxic preconditioning. We also found an upregulation of some of these proteins by qPCR, thus indicating differences also at the transcript level within the EVs. Among the upregulated proteins are CNP, Cyfip1, CASK, and TUBB5, which are well known to exhibit significant beneficial effects on neural stem cells. Thus, our results not only show a significant difference of protein cargo in EVs consequent to hypoxic exposure, but identify several candidate proteins that might play a pivotal role in the cell-to-cell mediated communication underlying neuronal differentiation, protection, maturation, and survival following exposure to hypoxic conditions.
PXD028217	36975803	Modification of Phosphorylation Sites in the Yeast Lysine Methyltransferase Set5 Exerts Influences on the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Hog1 under Prolonged Acetic Acid Stress. 	Probe mechanism of improved acetic aicd toleranca induced by flocculation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae through phosphoproteome	Phosphoproteome, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, acetic acid stress, flocculation	Responses to acetic acid toxicity in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae have widespread implications in the biorefinery of lignocellulosic biomass and food preservation. Our previous studies revealed that Set5, the yeast lysine methyltransferase and histone H4 methyltransferase, was involved in acetic acid stress tolerance. However, it is still mysterious how Set5 functions and interacts with the known stress signaling network. Here, we revealed that elevated phosphorylation of Set5 during acetic acid stress is accompanied by enhanced expression of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) Hog1. Further experiments uncovered that the phosphomimetic mutation of Set5 endowed yeast cells with improved growth and fermentation performance and altered transcription of specific stress-responsive genes. Intriguingly, Set5 was found to bind the coding region of HOG1 and regulate its transcription, along with increased expression and phosphorylation of Hog1. A protein-protein interaction between Set5 and Hog1 was also revealed. In addition, modification of Set5 phosphosites was shown to regulate reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, which is known to affect yeast acetic acid stress tolerance. The findings in this study imply that Set5 may function together with the central kinase Hog1 to coordinate cell growth and metabolism in response to stress. IMPORTANCE Hog1 is the yeast homolog of p38 MAPK in mammals that is conserved across eukaryotes, and it plays crucial roles in stress tolerance, fungal pathogenesis, and disease treatments. Here, we provide evidence that modification of Set5 phosphorylation sites regulates the expression and phosphorylation of Hog1, which expands current knowledge on upstream regulation of the Hog1 stress signaling network. Set5 and its homologous proteins are present in humans and various eukaryotes. The newly identified effects of Set5 phosphorylation site modifications in this study benefit an in-depth understanding of eukaryotic stress signaling, as well as the treatment of human diseases.
PXD027356	36976648	CERT1 mutations perturb human development by disrupting sphingolipid homeostasis. 	Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange of the CERT1 protein	HDX-MS HDX CERT1 CERT	Neural differentiation, synaptic transmission, and action potential propagation depend on membrane sphingolipids, whose metabolism is tightly regulated. Mutations in the ceramide transporter CERT (CERT1), which is involved in sphingolipid biosynthesis, are associated with intellectual disability, but the pathogenic mechanism remains obscure. Here, we characterize 31 individuals with de novo missense variants in CERT1. Several variants fall into a previously uncharacterized dimeric helical domain that enables CERT homeostatic inactivation, without which sphingolipid production goes unchecked. The clinical severity reflects the degree to which CERT autoregulation is disrupted, and inhibiting CERT pharmacologically corrects morphological and motor abnormalities in a Drosophila model of the disease, which we call ceramide transporter (CerTra) syndrome. These findings uncover a central role for CERT autoregulation in the control of sphingolipid biosynthetic flux, provide unexpected insight into the structural organization of CERT, and suggest a possible therapeutic approach for patients with CerTra syndrome.
PXD034451	36976676	Inducible Synthetic Growth Regulation Using the ClpXP Proteasome Enhances cis,cis-Muconic Acid and Glycolic Acid Yields in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Inducible synthetic protein degradation system for phenotype control	ClpXP proteasome, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Engineered microbial cells can produce sustainable chemistry, but the production competes for resources with growth. Inducible synthetic control over the resource use would enable fast accumulation of sufficient biomass and then divert the resources to production. We developed inducible synthetic resource-use control overSaccharomyces cerevisiae by expressing a bacterial ClpXP proteasome from an inducible promoter. By individually targeting growth-essential metabolic enzymes Aro1, Hom3, and Acc1 to the ClpXP proteasome, cell growth could be efficiently repressed during cultivation. The ClpXP proteasome was specific to the target proteins, and there was no reduction in the targets when ClpXP was not induced. The inducible growth repression improved product yields from glucose (cis,cis-muconic acid) and per biomass (cis,cis-muconic acid and glycolic acid). The inducible ClpXP proteasome tackles uncertainties in strain optimization by enabling model-guided repression of competing, growth-essential, and metabolic enzymes. Most importantly, it allows improving production without compromising biomass accumulation when uninduced; therefore, it is expected to mitigate strain stability and low productivity challenges.
PXD032104	36976863	Blockade of ROS production inhibits oncogenic signaling in acute myeloid leukemia and amplifies response to precision therapies. 	Blockade of ROS production inhibits oncogenic signaling in acute myeloid leukemia and amplifies response to precision therapies	AML, Leukaemia, PDX, Redox, iTRAQ	Mutations in the type III receptor tyrosine kinase FLT3 are frequent in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and are associated with a poor prognosis. AML is characterized by the overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which can induce cysteine oxidation in redox-sensitive signaling proteins. Here, we sought to characterize the specific pathways affected by ROS in AML by assessing oncogenic signaling in primary AML samples. The oxidation or phosphorylation of signaling proteins that mediate growth and proliferation was increased in samples from patient subtypes with FLT3 mutations. These samples also showed increases in the oxidation of proteins in the ROS-producing Rac/NADPH oxidase-2 (NOX2) complex. Inhibition of NOX2 increased the apoptosis of FLT3-mutant AML cells in response to FLT3 inhibitors. NOX2 inhibition also reduced the phosphorylation and cysteine oxidation of FLT3 in patient-derived xenograft mouse models, suggesting that decreased oxidative stress reduces the oncogenic signaling of FLT3. In mice grafted with FLT3 mutant AML cells, treatment with a NOX2 inhibitor reduced the number of circulating cancer cells, and combining FLT3 and NOX2 inhibitors increased survival to a greater extent than either treatment alone. Together, these data raise the possibility that combining NOX2 and FLT3 inhibitors could improve the treatment of FLT3 mutant AML.
PXD024656	36976888	Analysis of the Interactome of the Toxoplasma gondii Tgj1 HSP40 Chaperone. 	Toxoplasma gondii Tgj1 Hsp40 protein interaction LC-MS/MS	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Toxoplasma, gondii Hsp40, interaction	Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular apicomplexan that causes toxoplasmosis in humans and animals. Central to its dissemination and pathogenicity is the ability to rapidly divide in the tachyzoite stage and infect any type of nucleated cell. Adaptation to different cell contexts requires high plasticity in which heat shock proteins (Hsps) could play a fundamental role. Tgj1 is a type I Hsp40 of T. gondii, an ortholog of the DNAJA1 group, which is essential during the tachyzoite lytic cycle. Tgj1 consists of a J-domain, ZFD, and DNAJ_C domains with a CRQQ C-terminal motif, which is usually prone to lipidation. Tgj1 presented a mostly cytosolic subcellular localization overlapping partially with endoplasmic reticulum. Protein-protein Interaction (PPI) analysis showed that Tgj1 could be implicated in various biological pathways, mainly translation, protein folding, energy metabolism, membrane transport and protein translocation, invasion/pathogenesis, cell signaling, chromatin and transcription regulation, and cell redox homeostasis among others. The combination of Tgj1 and Hsp90 PPIs retrieved only 70 interactors linked to the Tgj1-Hsp90 axis, suggesting that Tgj1 would present specific functions in addition to those of the Hsp70/Hsp90 cycle, standing out invasion/pathogenesis, cell shape motility, and energy pathway. Within the Hsp70/Hsp90 cycle, translation-associated pathways, cell redox homeostasis, and protein folding were highly enriched in the Tgj1-Hsp90 axis. In conclusion, Tgj1 would interact with a wide range of proteins from different biological pathways, which could suggest a relevant role in them.
PXD031725	36977662	Domain-specific p53 mutants activate EGFR by distinct mechanisms exposing tissue-independent therapeutic vulnerabilities. 	Domain-specific p53 mutants activate EGFR by distinct mechanisms exposing tissue-independent therapeutic vulnerabilities	DNA binding domain, PPI, TMT, p53, transactivation domain	Mis-sense mutations affecting TP53 promote carcinogenesis both by inactivating tumor suppression, and by conferring pro-carcinogenic activities. We report here that p53 DNA-binding domain (DBD) and transactivation domain (TAD) mis-sense mutants unexpectedly activate pro-carcinogenic epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling via distinct, previously unrecognized molecular mechanisms. DBD- and TAD-specific TP53 mutants exhibited different cellular localization and induced distinct gene expression profiles. In multiple tissues, EGFR is stabilized by TAD and DBD mutants in the cytosolic and nuclear compartments respectively. TAD mutants promote EGFR-mediated signaling by enhancing EGFR interaction with AKT via DDX31 in the cytosol. Conversely, DBD mutants maintain EGFR activity in the nucleus, by blocking EGFR interaction with the phosphatase SHP1, triggering c-Myc and Cyclin D1 upregulation. Our findings suggest that p53 mutants carrying gain-of-function, mis-sense mutations affecting two different domains form new protein complexes that promote carcinogenesis by enhancing EGFR signaling via distinctive mechanisms, exposing clinically relevant therapeutic vulnerabilities.
PXD027305	36977671	Mitochondrial ATP synthase as a direct molecular target of chromium(III) to ameliorate hyperglycaemia stress. 	First identification of Cr-binding proteome in human HepG2 cells	HepG2, chromium	Chromium(III) is extensively used as a supplement for muscle development and the treatment of diabetes mellitus. However, its mode of action, essentiality, and physiological/pharmacological effects have been a subject of scientific debate for over half a century owing to the failure in identifying the molecular targets of Cr(III). Herein, by integrating fluorescence imaging with a proteomic approach, we visualized the Cr(III) proteome being mainly localized in the mitochondria, and subsequently identified and validated eight Cr(III)-binding proteins, which are predominately associated with ATP synthesis. We show that Cr(III) binds to ATP synthase at its beta subunit via the catalytic residues of Thr213/Glu242 and the nucleotide in the active site. Such a binding suppresses ATP synthase activity, leading to the activation of AMPK, improving glucose metabolism, and rescuing mitochondria from hyperglycaemia-induced fragmentation. The mode of action of Cr(III) in cells also holds true in type II diabetic male mice. Through this study, we resolve the long-standing question of how Cr(III) ameliorates hyperglycaemia stress at the molecular level, opening a new horizon for further exploration of the pharmacological effects of Cr(III).
PXD061015	36977707	Matrix Gla Protein drives stemness and tumor initiation in ovarian cancer. 	Quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis of patient-derived ovarian cancer stem cells	Cancer stem cells, Orbitrap exploris 480, Ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer (OC) displays the highest mortality among gynecological tumors, mainly due to early peritoneal dissemination, the high frequency of tumor relapse following primary debulking, and the development of chemoresistance. All these events are thought to be initiated and sustained by a subpopulation of neoplastic cells, termed ovarian cancer stem cells (OCSC), that are endowed with self-renewing and tumor-initiating properties. This implies that interfering with OCSC function should offer novel therapeutic perspectives to defeat OC progression. To this aim, a better understanding of the molecular and functional makeup of OCSC in clinically relevant model systems is essential. We have profiled the transcriptome of OCSC vs. their bulk cell counterpart from a panel of patient-derived OC cell cultures. This revealed that Matrix Gla Protein (MGP), classically known as a calcification-preventing factor in cartilage and blood vessels, is markedly enriched in OCSC. Functional assays showed that MGP confers several stemness-associated traits to OC cells, including a transcriptional reprogramming. Patient-derived organotypic cultures pointed to the peritoneal microenvironment as a major inducer of MGP expression in OC cells. Furthermore, MGP was found to be necessary and sufficient for tumor initiation in OC mouse models, by shortening tumor latency and increasing dramatically the frequency of tumor-initiating cells. Mechanistically, MGP-driven OC stemness was mediated by the stimulation of Hedgehog signaling, in particular through the induction of the Hedgehog effector GLI1, thus highlighting a novel MGP/Hedgehog pathway axis in OCSC. Finally, MGP expression was found to correlate with poor prognosis in OC patients, and was increased in tumor tissue after chemotherapy, supporting the clinical relevance of our findings. Thus, MGP is a novel driver in OCSC pathophysiology, with a major role in stemness and in tumor initiation.
PXD039943	36978789	Prenylcysteine Oxidase 1 Is a Key Regulator of Adipogenesis. 	The effects of silencing PCYOX1 on the proteome of murine fibroblast cells 3t3-L1 differentiated to adipocyte-like cells	3T3-L1 cells, PCYOX1, label-free mass spectrometry	The process of adipogenesis involves the differentiation of preadipocytes into mature adipocytes. Excessive adipogenesis promotes obesity, a condition that increasingly threatens global health and contributes to the rapid rise of obesity-related diseases. We have recently shown that prenylcysteine oxidase 1 (PCYOX1) is a regulator of atherosclerosis-disease mechanisms, which acts through mechanisms not exclusively related to its pro-oxidant activity. To address the role of PCYOX1 in the adipogenic process, we extended our previous observations confirming that Pcyox1(-/-)/Apoe(-/-) mice fed a high-fat diet for 8 or 12 weeks showed significantly lower body weight, when compared to Pcyox1(+/+)/Apoe(-/-) mice, due to an evident reduction in visceral adipose content. We herein assessed the role of PCYOX1 in adipogenesis. Here, we found that PCYOX1 is expressed in adipose tissue, and, independently from its pro-oxidant enzymatic activity, is critical for adipogenesis. Pcyox1 gene silencing completely prevented the differentiation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, by acting as an upstream regulator of several key players, such as FABP4, PPARgamma, C/EBPalpha. Proteomic analysis, performed by quantitative label-free mass spectrometry, further strengthened the role of PCYOX1 in adipogenesis by expanding the list of its downstream targets. Finally, the absence of Pcyox1 reduces the inflammatory markers in adipose tissue. These findings render PCYOX1 a novel adipogenic factor with possible pathophysiological or therapeutic potential.
PXD039025	36979386	Peptidomics as a Tool to Assess the Cleavage of Wine Haze Proteins by Peptidases from Drosophila suzukii Larvae. 	Cleavage of rTLP and rCHI by Peptidases from Drosophila suzukii Larval (Peptdomics Analysis)	Chitinase, Drosophila, TLP, haze, peptidases, suzukii, wine	Thermolabile grape berry proteins such as thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) and chitinases (CHIs) promote haze formation in bottled wines if not properly fined. As a natural grapevine pest, the spotted-wing fly Drosophila suzukii is a promising source of peptidases that break down grape berry proteins because the larvae develop and feed inside mature berries. Therefore, we produced recombinant TLP and CHI as model thermolabile wine haze proteins and applied a peptidomics strategy to investigate whether D. suzukii larval peptidases were able to digest them under acidic conditions (pH 3.5), which are typically found in winemaking practices. The activity of the novel peptidases was confirmed by mass spectrometry, and cleavage sites within the wine haze proteins were visualized in 3D protein models. The combination of recombinant haze proteins and peptidomics provides a valuable screening tool to identify optimal peptidases suitable for clarification processes in the winemaking industry.
PXD037650	36979426	Quality Control-A Stepchild in Quantitative Proteomics: A Case Study for the Human CSF Proteome. 	Quality control in quantitative proteomics: a case study for the human CSF proteome	FASP, cerebrospinal fluid, in-solution digestion, label-free quantification, quality control	Proteomic studies using mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantification are a main approach to the discovery of new biomarkers. However, a number of analytical conditions in front and during MS data acquisition can affect the accuracy of the obtained outcome. Therefore, comprehensive quality assessment of the acquired data plays a central role in quantitative proteomics, though, due to the immense complexity of MS data, it is often neglected. Here, we address practically the quality assessment of quantitative MS data, describing key steps for the evaluation, including the levels of raw data, identification and quantification. With this, four independent datasets from cerebrospinal fluid, an important biofluid for neurodegenerative disease biomarker studies, were assessed, demonstrating that sample processing-based differences are already reflected at all three levels but with varying impacts on the quality of the quantitative data. Specifically, we provide guidance to critically interpret the quality of MS data for quantitative proteomics. Moreover, we provide the free and open source quality control tool MaCProQC, enabling systematic, rapid and uncomplicated data comparison of raw data, identification and feature detection levels through defined quality metrics and a step-by-step quality control workflow.
PXD013919	36979679	The Proteomes of Oral Cells Change during Co-Cultivation with Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans and Eikenella corrodens. 	The proteomes of oral cells alter during co-cultivation  with Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans and Eikenella corrodens The proteomes of oral cells alter during co-cultivation  with Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans and Eikenella corrodens	PDL fibroblast, bacteria, cementoblast, gingival keratinocyte, osteoblastic lineage cell	BACKGROUND: Changes in the proteome of oral cells during periodontitis have rarely been investigated. This lack of information is partially attributed to the lack of human cell lines derived from the oral cavity for in vitro research. The objective of the present study was to create cell lines from relevant oral tissues and compare protein expression in cells cultured alone and in cells co-cultivated with periodontitis-associated bacterial strains. METHODS: We established human cell lines of gingival keratinocytes, osteoblastic lineage cells from the alveolar bone, periodontal ligament fibroblasts, and cementum cells. Using state-of-the-art label-free mass spectrometry, we investigated changes in the proteomes of these cells after co-cultivation with Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans and Eikenella corrodens for 48 h. RESULTS: Gingival keratinocytes, representing ectodermal cells, exhibited decreased expression of specific keratins, basement membrane components, and cell-cell contact proteins after cultivation with the bacterial strains. Mesodermal lineage cells generally exhibited similar proteomes after co-cultivation with bacteria; in particular, collagens and integrins were expressed at higher levels. CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study will help us elucidate the cellular mechanisms of periodontitis. Although co-cultivation with two periodontitis-associated bacterial strains significantly altered the proteomes of oral cells, future research is needed to examine the effects of complex biofilms mimicking in vivo conditions.
PXD039464	36979766	A Simplified and Effective Approach for the Isolation of Small Pluripotent Stem Cells Derived from Human Peripheral Blood. 	small pluripotent stem cell proteome	SBSC, blood, stem cell	Pluripotent stem cells are key players in regenerative medicine. Embryonic pluripotent stem cells, despite their significant advantages, are associated with limitations such as their inadequate availability and the ethical dilemmas in their isolation and clinical use. The discovery of very small embryonic-like (VSEL) stem cells addressed the aforementioned limitations, but their isolation technique remains a challenge due to their small cell size and their efficiency in isolation. Here, we report a simplified and effective approach for the isolation of small pluripotent stem cells derived from human peripheral blood. Our approach results in a high yield of small blood stem cell (SBSC) population, which expresses pluripotent embryonic markers (e.g., Nanog, SSEA-3) and the Yamanaka factors. Further, a fraction of SBSCs also co-express hematopoietic markers (e.g., CD45 and CD90) and/or mesenchymal markers (e.g., CD29, CD105 and PTH1R), suggesting a mixed stem cell population. Finally, quantitative proteomic profiling reveals that SBSCs contain various stem cell markers (CD9, ITGA6, MAPK1, MTHFD1, STAT3, HSPB1, HSPA4), and Transcription reg complex factors (e.g., STAT5B, PDLIM1, ANXA2, ATF6, CAMK1). In conclusion, we present a novel, simplified and effective isolating process that yields an abundant population of small-sized cells with characteristics of pluripotency from human peripheral blood.
PXD037089	36980262	Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals the Requirement of DYRK1-Mediated Phosphorylation of Ion Transport- and Cell Junction-Related Proteins for Notochord Lumenogenesis in Ascidian. 	Ciona savignyi notochord LC-MS/MS based on 4D Mass Spectromete	Ascidian, lumenogenesis, notochord	The dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase (DYRK1) phosphorylates diverse substrates involved in various cellular processes. Here, we found that blocking the kinase activity of DYRK1 inhibited notochord development and lumenogenesis in ascidian Ciona savignyi. By performing phosphoproteomics in conjunction with notochord-specific proteomics, we identified 1065 notochord-specific phosphoproteins that were present during lumen inflation, of which 428 differentially phosphorylated proteins (DPPs) were identified after inhibition of DYRK1 kinase activity. These DPPs were significantly enriched in metal ion transmembrane transporter activity, protein transport and localization, and tight junction. We next analyzed the downregulated phosphoproteins and focused on those belonging to the solute carrier (SLC), Ras-related protein (RAB), and tight junction protein (TJP) families. In vivo phospho-deficient study showed that alanine mutations on the phosphosites of these proteins resulted in defects of lumenogenesis during Ciona notochord development, demonstrating the crucial roles of phosphorylation of transmembrane transport-, vesicle trafficking-, and tight junction-related proteins in lumen formation. Overall, our study provides a valuable data resource for investigating notochord lumenogenesis and uncovers the molecular mechanisms of DYRK1-mediated notochord development and lumen inflation.
PXD039755	36980356	Proteomic and Bioinformatic Tools to Identify Potential Hub Proteins in the Audiogenic Seizure-Prone Hamster GASH/Sal. 	Data Independent Acquisition (DIA) based quantification workflow for proteome analysis of GASH/Sal and Control hamster	DDA, DIA, MSstats, MaxQuant, mProphet	The GASH/Sal (Genetic Audiogenic Seizure Hamster, Salamanca) is a model of audiogenic seizures with the epileptogenic focus localized in the inferior colliculus (IC). The sound-induced seizures exhibit a short latency (7-9 s), which implies innate protein disturbances in the IC as a basis for seizure susceptibility and generation. Here, we aim to study the protein profile in the GASH/Sal IC in comparison to controls. Protein samples from the IC were processed for enzymatic digestion and then analyzed by mass spectrometry in Data-Independent Acquisition mode. After identifying the proteins using the UniProt database, we selected those with differential expression and performed ontological analyses, as well as gene-protein interaction studies using bioinformatics tools. We identified 5254 proteins; among them, 184 were differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), with 126 upregulated and 58 downregulated proteins, and 10 of the DEPs directly related to epilepsy. Moreover, 12 and 7 proteins were uniquely found in the GASH/Sal or the control. The results indicated a protein profile alteration in the epileptogenic nucleus that might underlie the inborn occurring audiogenic seizures in the GASH/Sal model. In summary, this study supports the use of bioinformatics methods in proteomics to delve into the relationship between molecular-level protein mechanisms and the pathobiology of rodent models of audiogenic seizures.
PXD037649	36980644	MUG CCArly: A Novel Autologous 3D Cholangiocarcinoma Model Presents an Increased Angiogenic Potential. 	Proteome comparison of a new human cholangiocarcinoma 3D co-culture tumor model to 3D single cultures.	3D cell culture, DIA, cholangiocarcinoma	Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) are characterized by their desmoplastic and hypervascularized tumor microenvironment (TME), which is mainly composed of tumor cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). CAFs play a pivotal role in general and CCA tumor progression, angiogenesis, metastasis, and the development of treatment resistance. To our knowledge, no continuous human in vivo-like co-culture model is available for research. Therefore, we aimed to establish a new model system (called MUG CCArly) that mimics the desmoplastic microenvironment typically seen in CCA. Proteomic data comparing the new CCA tumor cell line with our co-culture tumor model (CCTM) indicated a higher gene expression correlation of the CCTM with physiological CCA characteristics. A pro-angiogenic TME that is typically observed in CCA could also be better simulated in the CCTM group. Further analysis of secreted proteins revealed CAFs to be the main source of these angiogenic factors. Our CCTM MUG CCArly represents a new, reproducible, and easy-to-handle 3D CCA model for preclinical studies focusing on CCA-stromal crosstalk, tumor angiogenesis, and invasion, as well as the immunosuppressive microenvironment and the involvement of CAFs in the way that drug resistance develops.
PXD019883	36980752	Non-Oncogene Addiction of KRAS-Mutant Cancers to IL-1beta via Versican and Mononuclear IKKbeta. 	Versican in murine cell line supernatants	VCAN, cancer, cell line, versican	Kirsten rat sarcoma virus (KRAS)-mutant cancers are frequent, metastatic, lethal, and largely undruggable. While interleukin (IL)-1beta and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB inhibition hold promise against cancer, untargeted treatments are not effective. Here, we show that human KRAS-mutant cancers are addicted to IL-1beta via inflammatory versican signaling to macrophage inhibitor of NF-kappaB kinase (IKK) beta. Human pan-cancer and experimental NF-kappaB reporter, transcriptome, and proteome screens reveal that KRAS-mutant tumors trigger macrophage IKKbeta activation and IL-1beta release via secretory versican. Tumor-specific versican silencing and macrophage-restricted IKKbeta deletion prevents myeloid NF-kappaB activation and metastasis. Versican and IKKbeta are mutually addicted and/or overexpressed in human cancers and possess diagnostic and prognostic power. Non-oncogene KRAS/IL-1beta addiction is abolished by IL-1beta and TLR1/2 inhibition, indicating cardinal and actionable roles for versican and IKKbeta in metastasis.
PXD044013	36981020	Proteome and Ubiquitylome Analyses of Maize Endoplasmic Reticulum under Heat Stress. 	Proteome and Ubiquitylome Analyses of Maize Endoplasmic Reticulum Under Heat Stress	heat stress, maize, ubiquitination	High temperatures severely affect plant growth and pose a threat to global crop production. Heat causes the accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum(ER), as well as triggering the heat-shock response (HSR) in the cytosol and the unfolded protein response (UPR) in the ER. Excessive misfolded proteins undergo further degradation through ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although much research on the plant heat stress response has been conducted, the regulation of ER-localized proteins has not been well-studied thus far. We isolated the microsome fraction from heat-treated and untreated maize seedlings and performed proteome and ubiquitylome analyses. Of the 8306 total proteins detected in the proteomics analysis, 1675 proteins were significantly up-regulated and 708 proteins were significantly down-regulated. Global ubiquitination analysis revealed 1780 proteins with at least one ubiquitination site. Motif analysis revealed that alanine and glycine are the preferred amino acids upstream and downstream of ubiquitinated lysine sites. ERAD components were found to be hyper-ubiquitinated after heat treatment, implying the feedback regulation of ERAD activity through protein degradation.
PXD039570	36982175	Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics Reveals the Effects of Red and Blue Light on the Growth and Development of Moso Bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis) Seedlings. 	Data-independent acquisition proteomics reveals the effects of red and blue light on the growth and development of moso bamboo(Phyllostachys edulis) seedlings	Blue light, Cell wall, DIA-based quantitavie proteomics, Moso bamboo, Photosynthesis, Red light	Moso bamboo is a rapidly growing species with significant economic, social, and cultural value. Transplanting moso bamboo container seedlings for afforestation has become a cost-effective method. The growth and development of the seedlings is greatly affected by the quality of light, including light morphogenesis, photosynthesis, and secondary metabolite production. Therefore, studies on the effects of specific light wavelengths on the physiology and proteome of moso bamboo seedlings are crucial. In this study, moso bamboo seedlings were germinated in darkness and then exposed to blue and red light conditions for 14 days. The effects of these light treatments on seedling growth and development were observed and compared through proteomics analysis. Results showed that moso bamboo has higher chlorophyll content and photosynthetic efficiency under blue light, while it displays longer internode and root length, more dry weight, and higher cellulose content under red light. Proteomics analysis reveals that these changes under red light are likely caused by the increased content of cellulase CSEA, specifically expressed cell wall synthetic proteins, and up-regulated auxin transporter ABCB19 in red light. Additionally, blue light is found to promote the expression of proteins constituting photosystem II, such as PsbP and PsbQ, more than red light. These findings provide new insights into the growth and development of moso bamboo seedlings regulated by different light qualities.
PXD039829	36982475	Glycosylation Analysis of Urinary Peptidome Highlights IGF2 Glycopeptides in Association with CKD. 	Urinary Glycosylated IGF2 peptides in association with CKD	CKD, IGF2, PTMs, eGFR, glyco-peptide, glycosylation, peptidomics, post translational modifications, urine	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is prevalent in 10% of world's adult population. The role of protein glycosylation in causal mechanisms of CKD progression is largely unknown. The aim of this study was to identify urinary O-linked glycopeptides in association to CKD for better characterization of CKD molecular manifestations. Urine samples from eight CKD and two healthy subjects were analyzed by CE-MS/MS and glycopeptides were identified by a specific software followed by manual inspection of the spectra. Distribution of the identified glycopeptides and their correlation with Age, eGFR and Albuminuria were evaluated in 3810 existing datasets. In total, 17 O-linked glycopeptides from 7 different proteins were identified, derived primarily from Insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF2). Glycosylation occurred at the surface exposed IGF2 Threonine 96 position. Three glycopeptides (DVStPPTVLPDNFPRYPVGKF, DVStPPTVLPDNFPRYPVG and DVStPPTVLPDNFPRYP) exhibited positive correlation with Age. The IGF2 glycopeptide (tPPTVLPDNFPRYP) showed a strong negative association with eGFR. These results suggest that with aging and deteriorating kidney function, alterations in IGF2 proteoforms take place, which may reflect changes in mature IGF2 protein. Further experiments corroborated this hypothesis as IGF2 increased plasma levels were observed in CKD patients. Protease predictions, considering also available transcriptomics data, suggest activation of cathepsin S with CKD, meriting further investigation.
PXD025834	36982520	Potential Anti-Candida albicans Mechanism of Trichoderma Acid from Trichoderma spirale. 	Transcriptome and iTRAQ proteomic analysis reveal the molecular mechanism of anti- Candida albicans action of trichoderma acid, a potent novel drug candidate	Candida albicans, iTRAQ, trichoderma acid	Candida albicans is the main causal pathogen of fungal infections in human beings. Although diverse anti-C. albicans drugs have been explored, the drug resistance and side effects of these drugs are intensifying. Thus, it is urgent to explore new anti-C. albicans compounds from natural products. In this study, we identified trichoderma acid (TA), a compound from Trichoderma spirale with a strong inhibitory effect on C. albicans. Transcriptomic and iTRAQ-based proteomic analyses of TA-treated C. albicans in combination with scanning electronic microscopy and reactive oxygen species (ROS) detection were performed to investigate the potential targets of TA. The most significant differentially expressed genes and proteins after TA treatment were verified through Western blot analysis. Our results revealed that mitochondrial membrane potential, endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes in the mitochondria, and cell walls were disrupted in TA-treated C. albicans, leading to the accumulation of ROS. The impaired enzymatic activities of superoxide dismutase further contributed to the increase in ROS concentration. The high concentration of ROS led to DNA damage and cell skeleton destruction. The expression levels of Rho-related GTP-binding protein RhoE (RND3), asparagine synthetase (ASNS), glutathione S-transferase, and heat shock protein 70 were significantly up-regulated in response to apoptosis and toxin stimulation. These findings suggest that RND3, ASNS, and supereoxide dismutase 5 are the potential targets of TA, as further demonstrated through Western blot analysis. The combination of transcriptomic, proteomic, and cellular analyses would provide clues for the anti-C. albicans mechanism of TA and the defensive response mechanism of C. albicans. TA is thus recognized as a promising new anti-C. albicans leading compound that alleviates the hazard of C. albicans infection in human beings.
PXD039610	36982564	Characterization and Proteomic Analysis of Plasma EVs Recovered from Healthy and Diseased Dogs with Canine Leishmaniosis. 	Characterization and proteomic analysis of plasma EVs recovered from healthy and diseased dogs with Canine Leishmaniosis	Canine leishmaniosis, Exosomes, Leishmania, Leishmania infantum, Leishmaniasis, dogs, extracellular vesicles, parasites	Dogs are highly valued companions and work animals that are susceptible to many life-threatening conditions such as canine leishmaniosis (CanL). Plasma-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), exploited extensively in biomarker discovery, constitute a mostly untapped resource in veterinary sciences. Thus, the definition of proteins associated with plasma EVs recovered from healthy and diseased dogs with a relevant pathogen would be important for biomarker development. For this, we recovered, using size-exclusion chromatography (SEC), EVs from 19 healthy and 20 CanL dogs' plasma and performed proteomic analysis by LC-MS/MS to define their core proteomic composition and search for CanL-associated alterations. EVs-specific markers were identified in all preparations and also non-EVs proteins. Some EVs markers such as CD82 were specific to the healthy animals, while others, such as the Integrin beta 3 were identified in most samples. The EVs-enriched preparations allowed the identification of 529 canine proteins that were identified in both groups, while 465 and 154 were only identified in healthy or CanL samples, respectively. A GO enrichment analysis revealed few CanL-specific terms. Leishmania spp. protein identifications were also found, although with only one unique peptide. Ultimately, CanL-associated proteins of interest were identified and a core proteome was revealed that will be available for intra- and inter-species comparisons.
PXD038755	36982867	Exploration of the Antioxidant Effect of Spermidine on the Ovary and Screening and Identification of Differentially Expressed Proteins. 	Exploration of the antioxidant effect of spermidine on the ovary and screening and identification of differentially expressed proteins	antioxidant, mice, ovary, spermidine	Spermidine is a naturally occurring polyamine compound that has many biological functions, such as inducing autophagy and anti-inflammatory and anti-aging effects. Spermidine can affect follicular development and thus protect ovarian function. In this study, ICR mice were fed exogenous spermidine drinking water for three months to explore the regulation of ovarian function by spermidine. The results showed that the number of atretic follicles in the ovaries of spermidine-treated mice was significantly lower than that in the control group. Antioxidant enzyme activities (SOD, CAT, T-AOC) significantly increased, and MDA levels significantly decreased. The expression of autophagy protein (Beclin 1 and microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 LC3 II/I) significantly increased, and the expression of the polyubiquitin-binding protein p62/SQSTM 1 significantly decreased. Moreover, we found 424 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were upregulated, and 257 were downregulated using proteomic sequencing. Gene Ontology and KEGG analyses showed that these DEPs were mainly involved in lipid metabolism, oxidative metabolism and hormone production pathways. In conclusion, spermidine protects ovarian function by reducing the number of atresia follicles and regulating the level of autophagy protein, antioxidant enzyme activity, and polyamine metabolism in mice.
PXD039807	36983449	Global Molecular Response of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis to Zinc Deprivation: Analyses at Transcript, Protein and MicroRNA Levels. 	Global molecular response of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis to zinc deprivation: analyses at transcript, protein and microRNA levels.	Zinc, miRNA, transcriptomics	Zinc is one of the main micronutrients for all organisms. One of the defense mechanisms used by the host includes the sequestration of metals used in fungal metabolism, such as iron and zinc. There are several mechanisms that maintain the balance in the intracellular zinc supply. MicroRNAs are effector molecules of responses between the pathogen and host, favoring or preventing infection in many microorganisms. Fungi of the Paracoccidioides genus are thermodimorphic and the etiological agents of paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM). In the current pandemic scenario world mycosis studies continue to be highly important since a significant number of patients with COVID-19 developed systemic mycoses, co-infections that complicated their clinical condition. The objective was to identify transcriptomic and proteomic adaptations in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis during zinc deprivation. Nineteen microRNAs were identified, three of which were differentially regulated. Target genes regulated by those microRNAs are elements of zinc homeostasis such as ZRT1, ZRT3 and COT1 transporters. Transcription factors that have zinc in their structure are also targets of those miRNAs. Transcriptional and proteomic data suggest that P. brasiliensis undergoes metabolic remodeling to survive zinc deprivation and that miRNAs may be part of the regulatory process.
PXD020220	36983501	Mediator Subunit Med15 Regulates Cell Morphology and Mating in Candida lusitaniae. 	Proteomic analysis of the dpp3 knockout mutant, the reconstituted strain and the wild-type strain of Candida lusitaniae	Candida, cell separation, mating, pseudo-hyphal growth, quantitative proteome, secondary mutation	Candida lusitaniae is an emerging opportunistic pathogenic yeast capable of shifting from yeast to pseudohyphae form, and it is one of the few Candida species with the ability to reproduce sexually. In this study, we showed that a dpp3Delta mutant, inactivated for a putative pyrophosphatase, is impaired in cell separation, pseudohyphal growth and mating. The defective phenotypes were not restored after the reconstruction of a wild-type DPP3 locus, reinforcing the hypothesis of the presence of an additional mutation that we suspected in our previous study. Genetic crosses and genome sequencing identified an additional mutation in MED15, encoding a subunit of the mediator complex that functions as a general transcriptional co-activator in Eukaryotes. We confirmed that inactivation of MED15 was responsible for the defective phenotypes by rescuing the dpp3Delta mutant with a wild-type copy of MED15 and constructing a med15Delta knockout mutant that mimics the phenotypes of dpp3Delta in vitro. Proteomic analyses revealed the biological processes under the control of Med15 and involved in hyphal growth, cell separation and mating. This is the first description of the functions of MED15 in the regulation of hyphal growth, cell separation and mating, and the pathways involved in C. lusitaniae.
PXD040248	36983784	Carbon Fixation in the Chemolithoautotrophic Bacterium Aquifex aeolicus Involves Two Low-Potential Ferredoxins as Partners of the PFOR and OGOR Enzymes. 	Carbon fixation in the chemolithoautotrophic bacterium Aquifex aeolicus involves two low-potential ferredoxins as partners of the pentameric PFOR and OGOR enzymes	Carbon fixation, Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, chemolithoautotrophic bacteria, hydrogenase, hyperthermophilic bacteria, low potential ferredoxin, oxoglutarate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase, pyruvate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase, reverse TCA cycle	Aquifex aeolicus is a microaerophilic hydrogen- and sulfur -oxidizing bacterium that assimilates CO2 via the reverse tricarboxylic acid cycle (rTCA). Key enzymes of this pathway are pyruvate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase (PFOR) and 2-oxoglutarate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase (OGOR), which are responsible, respectively, for the reductive carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to pyruvate and of succinyl-CoA to 2-oxoglutarate, two energetically unfavorable reactions that require a strong reduction potential. We have confirmed, by biochemistry and proteomics, that A. aeolicus possesses a pentameric version of these enzyme complexes ((alphabetagammadeltaepsilon)2) and that they are highly abundant in the cell. In addition, we have purified and characterized, from the soluble fraction of A. aeolicus, two low redox potential and oxygen-stable [4Fe-4S] ferredoxins (Fd6 and Fd7, E(0) = -440 and -460 mV, respectively) and shown that they can physically interact and exchange electrons with both PFOR and OGOR, suggesting that they could be the physiological electron donors of the system in vivo. Shotgun proteomics indicated that all the enzymes assumed to be involved in the rTCA cycle are produced in the A. aeolicus cells. A number of additional enzymes, previously suggested to be part of a putative partial Wood-Ljungdahl pathway used for the synthesis of serine and glycine from CO2 were identified by mass spectrometry, but their abundance in the cell seems to be much lower than that of the rTCA cycle. Their possible involvement in carbon assimilation is discussed.
PXD039286	36983903	Characterization of Cystatin B Interactome in Saliva from Healthy Elderly and Alzheimer's Disease Patients. 	Characterization of novel human cystatin B salivary interactome in Alzheimer's disease and healthy subjects.	Alzheimer, CoIP, cystatinB, interactome	Cystatin B is a small, multifunctional protein involved in the regulation of inflammation, innate immune response, and neuronal protection and found highly abundant in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, our study demonstrated a significant association between the level of salivary cystatin B and AD. Since the protein is able to establish protein-protein interaction (PPI) in different contexts and aggregation-prone proteins and the PPI networks are relevant for AD pathogenesis, and due to the relevance of finding new AD markers in peripheral biofluids, we thought it was interesting to study the possible involvement of cystatin B in PPIs in saliva and to evaluate differences and similarities between AD and age-matched elderly healthy controls (HC). For this purpose, we applied a co-immunoprecipitation procedure and a bottom-up proteomics analysis to purify, identify, and quantify cystatin B interactors. Results demonstrated for the first time the existence of a salivary cystatin B-linked multi-protein complex composed by 82 interactors and largely expressed in the body. Interactors are involved in neutrophil activation, antimicrobial activity, modulation of the cytoskeleton and extra-cellular matrix (ECM), and glucose metabolism. Preliminary quantitative data showed significantly lower levels of triosophosphate isomerase 1 and higher levels of mucin 7, BPI, and matrix Gla protein in AD with respect to HC, suggesting implications associated with AD of altered glucose metabolism, antibacterial activities, and calcification-associated processes. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD039286 and PXD030679.
PXD039765	36984805	Data Independent Acquisition Reveals In-Depth Serum Proteome Changes in Canine Leishmaniosis. 	DIA-MS serum proteomics in dogs with leishmaniosis	DIA, Leishmania infantum, canine, serum	Comprehensive profiling of serum proteome provides valuable clues of health status and pathophysiological processes, making it the main strategy in biomarker discovery. However, the high dynamic range significantly decreases the number of detectable proteins, obstructing the insights into the underlying biological processes. To circumvent various serum enrichment methods, obtain high-quality proteome wide information using the next-generation proteomic, and study host response in canine leishmaniosis, we applied data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) for deep proteomic profiling of clinical samples. The non-depleted serum samples of healthy and naturally Leishmania-infected dogs were analyzed using the label-free 60-min gradient sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH-MS) method. As a result, we identified 554 proteins, 140 of which differed significantly in abundance. Those were included in lipid metabolism, hematological abnormalities, immune response, and oxidative stress, providing valuable information about the complex molecular basis of the clinical and pathological landscape in canine leishmaniosis. Our results show that DIA-MS is a method of choice for understanding complex pathophysiological processes in serum and serum biomarker development.
PXD042472	36988756	Chronic stress targets mitochondrial respiratory efficiency in the skeletal muscle of C57BL/6 mice. 	Chronic stress targets mitochondrial respiratory efficiency in the skeletal muscle of C57BL/6 mice. PMID: 36988756 	chronic variable stress, isolated mitochondria, liver, mitochondrial function	Episodes of chronic stress can result in psychic disorders like post-traumatic stress disorder, but also promote the development of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes. We hypothesize that muscle, as main regulator of whole-body energy expenditure, is a central target of acute and adaptive molecular effects of stress in this context. Here, we investigate the immediate effect of a stress period on energy metabolism in Musculus gastrocnemius in our established C57BL/6 chronic variable stress (Cvs) mouse model. Cvs decreased lean body mass despite increased energy intake, reduced circadian energy expenditure (EE), and substrate utilization. Cvs altered the proteome of metabolic components but not of the oxidative phosphorylation system (OXPHOS), or other mitochondrial structural components. Functionally, Cvs impaired the electron transport chain (ETC) capacity of complex I and complex II, and reduces respiratory capacity of the ETC from complex I to ATP synthase. Complex I-OXPHOS correlated to diurnal EE and complex II-maximal uncoupled respiration correlated to diurnal and reduced nocturnal EE. Bioenergetics assessment revealed higher optimal thermodynamic efficiencies (n-opt) of mitochondria via complex II after Cvs. Interestingly, transcriptome and methylome were unaffected by Cvs, thus excluding major contributions to supposed metabolic adaptation processes. In summary, the preclinical Cvs model shows that metabolic pressure by Cvs is initially compensated by adaptation of mitochondria function associated with high thermodynamic efficiency and decreased EE to manage the energy balance. This counter-regulation of mitochondrial complex II may be the driving force to longitudinal metabolic changes of muscle physiological adaptation as the basis of stress memory.
PXD032045	36989351	mRNA translational specialization by RBPMS presets the competence for cardiac commitment in hESCs. 	Translational specialization in pluripotency by RBPMS poises future lineage-decisions	Active-ribosome associated proteins, RBPMS, exit of pluripotency, pluripotency	The blueprints of developing organs are preset at the early stages of embryogenesis. Transcriptional and epigenetic mechanisms are proposed to preset developmental trajectories. However, we reveal that the competence for the future cardiac fate of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) is preset in pluripotency by a specialized mRNA translation circuit controlled by RBPMS. RBPMS is recruited to active ribosomes in hESCs to control the translation of essential factors needed for cardiac commitment program, including Wingless/Integrated (WNT) signaling. Consequently, RBPMS loss specifically and severely impedes cardiac mesoderm specification, leading to patterning and morphogenetic defects in human cardiac organoids. Mechanistically, RBPMS specializes mRNA translation, selectively via 3'UTR binding and globally by promoting translation initiation. Accordingly, RBPMS loss causes translation initiation defects highlighted by aberrant retention of the EIF3 complex and depletion of EIF5A from mRNAs, thereby abrogating ribosome recruitment. We demonstrate how future fate trajectories are programmed during embryogenesis by specialized mRNA translation.
PXD039332	36989355	The super elongation complex drives transcriptional addiction in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma. 	The Super Elongation Complex Drives Transcriptional Addiction in MYCN-amplified Neuroblastoma	ABT-199, MYCN, Neuroblastoma, Super elongation complex (SEC), Transcription elongation	MYCN amplification in neuroblastoma leads to aberrant expression of MYCN oncoprotein, which binds active genes promoting transcriptional amplification. Yet, how MYCN coordinates transcription elongation to meet productive transcriptional amplification and which elongation machinery represents MYCN-driven vulnerability remain to be identified. We conducted a targeted screen of transcription elongation factors and identified the super elongation complex (SEC) as a unique vulnerability in MYCN-amplified neuroblastomas. MYCN directly binds EAF1 and recruits SEC to enhance processive transcription elongation. Depletion of EAF1 or AFF1/AFF4, another core subunit of SEC, leads to a global reduction in transcription elongation and elicits selective apoptosis of MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma cells. A combination screen reveals SEC inhibition synergistically potentiates the therapeutic efficacies of FDA-approved BCL-2 antagonist ABT-199, in part due to suppression of MCL1 expression, both in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma cells and in patient-derived xenografts. These findings identify disruption of the MYCN-SEC regulatory axis as a promising therapeutic strategy in neuroblastoma.
PXD031693	36989379	The photoreceptor protective cGMP-analog Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS interacts with cGMP-interactors PKGI, PDE1, PDE6, and PKAI in the degenerating mouse retina. 	The photoreceptor protective cGMP-analog Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS shows target-specificity in the degenerating mouse retina	Retinitis Pigmentosa, retina	The inherited eye disease retinitis pigmentosa (RP) causes the loss of photoreceptors by a still unknown cell death mechanism. During this degeneration, cyclic guanosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) levels become elevated, leading to over-activation of the cGMP-binding protein cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG). cGMP analogs selectively modified to have inhibitory actions on PKG have aided in impeding photoreceptor death, and one such cGMP analog is Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS. However, cGMP analogs have previously been shown to interact with numerous targets, so to better understand the therapeutic action of Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS, it is necessary to elucidate its target-selectivity and hence what potential cellular mechanism(s) it may affect within the photoreceptors. Here, we, therefore, applied affinity chromatography together with mass spectrometry to isolate and identify Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS interactors from retinas derived from three different murine RP models (i.e., rd1, rd2, and rd10 mice). Our findings revealed that Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS bound seven known cGMP-binding proteins, including PKG1beta, PDE1beta, PDE1c, PDE6alpha, and PKA1alpha. Furthermore, an additional 28 proteins were found to be associated with Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS. This latter group included MAPK1/3, which is known to connect with cGMP/PKG in other systems. However, in organotypic retinal cultures, Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS had no effect on photoreceptor MAPK1/3 expression or activity. To summarize, Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS is more target specific compared to regular cGMP.
PXD039053	36990220	Detection of Nalpha-terminally formylated native proteins by a pan-N-formyl methionine-specific antibody. 	SW480 N-terminal peptide analysis	N-terminome, SW480, iNrich	N-formyl methionine (fMet)-containing proteins are produced in bacteria, eukaryotic organelles mitochondria and plastids, and even in cytosol. However, Nalpha-terminally formylated proteins have been poorly characterized because of the lack of appropriate tools to detect fMet independently of downstream proximal sequences. Using a fMet-Gly-Ser-Gly-Cys peptide as an antigen, we generated a pan-fMet-specific rabbit polyclonal antibody called anti-fMet. The raised anti-fMet recognized universally and sequence context-independently Nt-formylated proteins in bacterial, yeast, and human cells as determined by a peptide spot array, dot blotting, and immunoblotting. We anticipate that the anti-fMet antibody will be broadly used to enable an understanding of the poorly explored functions and mechanisms of Nt-formylated proteins in various organisms.
PXD039824	36990299	New insight into the composition of extracellular traps released by macrophages exposed to different types of inducers. 	New insight into the composition of extracellular traps released by macrophages exposed to different types of inducers	Extracellular traps, histones, macrophages, post-translational modifications	Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) release plays a key role in many chronic disease settings, including atherosclerosis. They are critical to innate immune defence, but also contribute to disease by promoting thrombosis and inflammation. Macrophages are known to release extracellular traps or "METs", but their composition and role in pathological processes are less well defined. In this study, we examined MET release from human THP-1 macrophages exposed to model inflammatory and pathogenic stimuli, including tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), hypochlorous acid (HOCl) and nigericin. In each case, there was release of DNA from the macrophages, as visualized by fluorescence microscopy with the cell impermeable DNA binding dye SYTOX green, consistent with MET formation. Proteomic analysis on METs released from macrophages exposed to TNFalpha and nigericin reveals that they are composed of linker and core histones, together with a range of cytosolic and mitochondrial proteins. These include proteins involved in DNA binding, stress responses, cytoskeletal organisation, metabolism, inflammation, anti-microbial activity, and calcium binding. Quinone oxidoreductase in particular, was highly abundant in all METs but has not been reported previously in NETs. Moreover, there was an absence of proteases in METs in contrast to NETs. Some of the MET histones, contained post-translational modifications, including acetylation and methylation of Lys but not citrullination of Arg. These data provide new insight into the potential implications of MET formation in vivo and their contributions to immune defence and pathology.
PXD039802	36990913	Cessation of chronic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol use partially reverses impacts on male fertility and the sperm epigenome in rhesus macaques. 	Discontinuation of chronic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol diminishes impact on male fertility and the sperm epigenome in rhesus macaques	Cannabis, Isobaric labeling, Male fertility, Quantitative proteomics, Rhesus macaque, Seminal fluid	OBJECTIVE: To determine whether discontinuation of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) use mitigates THC-associated changes in male reproductive health using a rhesus macaque model of daily THC edible consumption. DESIGN: Research animal study. SETTING: Research institute environment. PATIENT(S): Adult male rhesus macaques (age, 8-10 years; n = 6). INTERVENTION(S): Chronic daily THC edible administration at medically and recreationally relevant contemporary doses followed by cessation of THC use. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Testicular volume, serum male hormones, semen parameters, sperm deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) fragmentation, seminal fluid proteomics, and whole genome bisulfite sequencing of sperm DNA. RESULT(S): Chronic THC use resulted in significant testicular atrophy, increased gonadotropin levels, decreased serum sex steroid levels, changes in seminal fluid proteome, and increased DNA fragmentation with partial recovery after discontinuation of THC use. For every increase of 1 mg/7 kg/day in THC dosing, there was a significant decrease in the total testicular volume bilaterally by 12.6 cm(3) (95% confidence interval [CI], 10.6-14.5), resulting in a 59% decrease in volume. With THC abstinence, the total testicular volume increased to 73% of its original volume. Similarly, with THC exposure, there were significant decreases in the mean total testosterone and estradiol levels and a significant increase in the follicle-stimulating hormone level. With increasing THC dose, there was a significant decrease in the liquid semen ejaculate volume and weight of coagulum; however, no other significant changes in the other semen parameters were noted. After discontinuing THC use, there was a significant increase in the total serum testosterone level by 1.3 ng/mL (95% CI, 0.1-2.4) and estradiol level by 2.9 pg/mL (95% CI, 0.4-5.4), and the follicle-stimulating hormone level significantly decreased by 0.06 ng/mL (95% CI, 0.01-0.11). Seminal fluid proteome analysis revealed differential expression of proteins enriched for processes related to cellular secretion, immune response, and fibrinolysis. Whole genome bisulfite sequencing identified 23,558 CpGs differentially methylated in heavy-THC vs. pre-THC sperm, with partial restoration of methylation after discontinuation of THC use. Genes associated with altered differentially methylated regions were enriched for those involved in the development and function of the nervous system. CONCLUSION(S): This is the first study demonstrating that discontinuation of chronic THC use in rhesus macaques partially restores adverse impacts to male reproductive health, THC-associated sperm differentially methylated regions in genes important for development, and expression of proteins important for male fertility.
PXD038867	36991000	Comprehensive proteogenomic characterization of early duodenal cancer reveals the carcinogenesis tracks of different subtypes. 	Comprehensive proteogenomic characterization of early duodenal cancer reveals the carcinogenesis tracks of different subtypes	early duodenal cancer, genome	The subtypes of duodenal cancer (DC) are complicated and the carcinogenesis process is not well characterized. We present comprehensive characterization of 438 samples from 156 DC patients, covering 2 major and 5 rare subtypes. Proteogenomics reveals LYN amplification at the chromosome 8q gain functioned in the transmit from intraepithelial neoplasia phase to infiltration tumor phase via MAPK signaling, and illustrates the DST mutation improves mTOR signaling in the duodenal adenocarcinoma stage. Proteome-based analysis elucidates stage-specific molecular characterizations and carcinogenesis tracks, and defines the cancer-driving waves of the adenocarcinoma and Brunner's gland subtypes. The drug-targetable alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AARS1) in the high tumor mutation burden/immune infiltration is significantly enhanced in DC progression, and catalyzes the lysine-alanylation of poly-ADP-ribose polymerases (PARP1), which decreases the apoptosis of cancer cells, eventually promoting cell proliferation and tumorigenesis. We assess the proteogenomic landscape of early DC, and provide insights into the molecular features corresponding therapeutic targets.
PXD039063	36991316	Targeting CLDN6 in germ cell tumors by an antibody-drug-conjugate and studying therapy resistance of yolk-sac tumors to identify and screen specific therapeutic options. 	Identification of CD24 interaction partners in urologic tumor cell lines	CD24, Germ cell tumor, co-immunoprecipitation, prostate cancer, renal cell carcinoma, urothelial carcinoma	BACKGROUND: Being the standard-of-care for four decades, cisplatin-based chemotherapy is highly efficient in treating germ cell tumors (GCT). However, often refractory patients present with a remaining (resistant) yolk-sac tumor (YST(-R)) component, resulting in poor prognosis due to lack of novel treatment options besides chemotherapy and surgery. The aim of this study was to identify novel targets for the treatment of YST by deciphering the molecular mechanisms of therapy resistance. Additionally, we screened the cytotoxic efficacy of a novel antibody-drug-conjugate targeting CLDN6 (CLDN6-ADC), as well as pharmacological inhibitors to target specifically YST. METHODS: Protein and mRNA levels of putative targets were measured by flow cytometry, immunohistochemical stainings, mass spectrometry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues, phospho-kinase arrays, or qRT-PCR. Cell viability, apoptosis and cell cycle assays of GCT and non-cancerous cells were performed using XTT cell viability assays or Annexin V / propidium iodide flow cytometry, respectively. Druggable genomic alterations of YST(-R) tissues were identified by the TrueSight Oncology 500 assay. RESULTS: We demonstrated that treatment with a CLDN6-ADC enhanced apoptosis induction specifically in CLDN6(+) GCT cells in comparison with non-cancerous controls. In a cell line-dependent manner, either an accumulation in the G2 / M cell cycle phase or a mitotic catastrophe was observed. Based on mutational and proteome profiling, this study identified drugs targeting the FGF, VGF, PDGF, mTOR, CHEK1, AURKA, or PARP signaling pathways as promising approaches to target YST. Further, we identified factors relevant for MAPK signaling, translational initiation and RNA binding, extracellular matrix-related processes as well as oxidative stress and immune response to be involved in therapy resistance. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, this study offers a novel CLDN6-ADC to target GCT. Additionally, this study presents novel pharmacological inhibitors blocking FGF, VGF, PDGF, mTOR, CHEK1, AURKA, or PARP signaling for the treatment of (refractory) YST patients. Finally, this study shed light on the mechanisms of therapy resistance in YST.
PXD047509	36993207	The chromatin factors SET-26 and HCF-1 oppose the histone deacetylase HDA-1 in longevity and gene regulation in C. elegans. 	The chromatin factors SET-26 and HCF-1 oppose the histone deacetylase HDA-1 in longevity and gene regulation in C. elegans	C. elegans, immuno precipitation	SET-26, HCF-1, and HDA-1 are highly conserved chromatin factors with key roles in development and aging. Here we present mechanistic insights into how these factors regulate gene expression and modulate longevity in C. elegans. We show that SET-26 and HCF-1 cooperate to regulate a common set of genes, and both antagonize the histone deacetylase HDA-1 to limit longevity. We propose a model in which SET-26 recruits HCF-1 to chromatin in somatic cells, where they stabilize each other at the promoters of a subset of genes, particularly mitochondrial function genes, and regulate their expression. HDA-1 opposes SET-26 and HCF-1 on the regulation of a subset of their common target genes and in longevity. Our findings suggest that SET-26, HCF-1, and HDA-1 comprise a mechanism to fine-tune gene expression and longevity and likely have important implications for the mechanistic understanding of how these factors function in diverse organisms, particularly in aging biology.
PXD039860	36993616	A Multiomic Analysis Reveals How Breast Cancers Disseminated to the Bone Marrow Acquire Aggressive Phenotypes through Tumor-Stroma Tunnels. 	A multi-omic analysis implicates the acquisition of CCDC88A/GIV through tumor-stroma tunnels in escape from tumor cell dormancy	ER+, TMT, breast cancer, mesenchymal stromal cells	Estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer commonly disseminates to bone marrow, where interactions with mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) shape disease trajectory. We modeled these interactions with tumor-MSC co-cultures and used an integrated transcriptome-proteome-network- analyses workflow to identify a comprehensive catalog of contact-induced changes. Induced genes and proteins in cancer cells, some borrowed and others tumor-intrinsic, were not recapitulated merely by conditioned media from MSCs. Protein-protein interaction networks revealed the rich connectome between 'borrowed' and 'intrinsic' components. Bioinformatic approaches prioritized one of the 'borrowed' components, CCDC88A /GIV, a multi-modular metastasis-related protein which has recently been implicated in driving one of the hallmarks of cancers, i.e., growth signaling autonomy. MSCs transferred GIV protein to ER+ breast cancer cells (that lack GIV) through tunnelling nanotubes via connexin (Cx)43-facilitated intercellular transport. Reinstating GIV alone in GIV-negative breast cancer cells reproduced ~20% of both the 'borrowed' and the 'intrinsic' gene induction patterns from contact co-cultures; conferred resistance to anti-estrogen drugs; and enhanced tumor dissemination. Findings provide a multiomic insight into MSC-->tumor cell intercellular transport and validate how transport of one such candidate, GIV, from the haves (MSCs) to have-nots (ER+ breast cancer) orchestrates aggressive disease states.
PXD053578	36993679	Merlin(S13) phosphorylation controls meningioma Wnt signaling and magnetic resonance imaging features. 	Merlin S13 phosphorylation controls meningioma Wnt signaling and magnetic resonance imaging features	MRI, Wnt signaling, meningioma, phosphoproteomics, proximity labeling	Meningiomas are the most common primary intracranial tumors and are associated with inactivation of the tumor suppressor NF2/Merlin, but one-third of meningiomas retain Merlin expression and typically have favorable clinical outcomes. Biochemical mechanisms underlying Merlin-intact meningioma growth are incompletely understood, and non-invasive biomarkers that predict meningioma outcomes and could be used to guide treatment de-escalation or imaging surveillance of Merlin-intact meningiomas are lacking. Here we integrate single-cell RNA sequencing, proximity-labeling proteomic mass spectrometry, mechanistic and functional approaches, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) across meningioma cells, xenografts, and human patients to define biochemical mechanisms and an imaging biomarker that distinguish Merlin-intact meningiomas with favorable clinical outcomes from meningiomas with unfavorable clinical outcomes. We find Merlin drives meningioma Wnt signaling and tumor growth through a feed-forward mechanism that requires Merlin dephosphorylation on serine 13 (S13) to attenuate inhibitory interactions with beta-catenin and activate the Wnt pathway. Meningioma MRI analyses of xenografts and human patients show Merlin-intact meningiomas with S13 phosphorylation and favorable clinical outcomes are associated with high apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) on diffusion-weighted imaging. In sum, our results shed light on Merlin posttranslational modifications that regulate meningioma Wnt signaling and tumor growth in tumors without NF2/Merlin inactivation. To translate these findings to clinical practice, we establish a non-invasive imaging biomarker that could be used to guide treatment de-escalation or imaging surveillance for patients with favorable meningiomas.
PXD038008	36994463	Modic type 2 changes are fibroinflammatory changes with complement system involvement adjacent to degenerated vertebral endplates. 	Modic type 2 changes are fibroinflammatory changes with complement system involvement adjacent to degenerated vertebral endplates	Evosep, Label free quantification, Modic type 2 changes, TimsTof, angiogenesis, complement system, fibrosis, inflammation, neurogenesis, vertebral endplates	Background: Vertebral endplate signal intensity changes visualized by magnetic resonance imaging termed Modic changes (MC) are highly prevalent in low back pain patients. Interconvertibility between the three MC subtypes (MC1, MC2, MC3) suggests different pathological stages. Histologically, granulation tissue, fibrosis, and bone marrow edema are signs of inflammation in MC1 and MC2. However, different inflammatory infiltrates and amount of fatty marrow suggest distinct inflammatory processes in MC2. Aims: The aims of this study were to investigate (i) the degree of bony (BEP) and cartilage endplate (CEP) degeneration in MC2, (ii) to identify inflammatory MC2 pathomechanisms, and (iii) to show that these marrow changes correlate with severity of endplate degeneration. Methods: Pairs of axial biopsies (n = 58) spanning the entire vertebral body including both CEPs were collected from human cadaveric vertebrae with MC2. From one biopsy, the bone marrow directly adjacent to the CEP was analyzed with mass spectrometry. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between MC2 and control were identified and bioinformatic enrichment analysis was performed. The other biopsy was processed for paraffin histology and BEP/CEP degenerations were scored. Endplate scores were correlated with DEPs. Results: Endplates from MC2 were significantly more degenerated. Proteomic analysis revealed an activated complement system, increased expression of extracellular matrix proteins, angiogenic, and neurogenic factors in MC2 marrow. Endplate scores correlated with upregulated complement and neurogenic proteins. Discussion: The inflammatory pathomechanisms in MC2 comprises activation of the complement system. Concurrent inflammation, fibrosis, angiogenesis, and neurogenesis indicate that MC2 is a chronic inflammation. Correlation of endplate damage with complement and neurogenic proteins suggest that complement system activation and neoinnervation may be linked to endplate damage. The endplate-near marrow is the pathomechanistic site, because MC2 occur at locations with more endplate degeneration. Conclusion: MC2 are fibroinflammatory changes with complement system involvement which occur adjacent to damaged endplates.
PXD040942	36994853	Frizzled receptors facilitate Tiki inhibition of Wnt signaling at the cell surface. 	Frizzled receptors facilitate Tiki inhibition of Wnt signaling at the cell surface	FZD, LRP6, ROR1/2, Tiki, Wnt	The membrane-tethered protease Tiki antagonizes Wnt3a signaling by cleaving and inactivating Wnt3a in Wnt-producing cells. Tiki also functions in Wnt-receiving cells to antagonize Wnt signaling by an unknown mechanism. Here, we demonstrate that Tiki inhibition of Wnt signaling at the cell surface requires Frizzled (FZD) receptors. Tiki associates with the Wnt-FZD complex and cleaves the N-terminus of Wnt3a or Wnt5a, preventing the Wnt-FZD complex from recruiting and activating the coreceptor LRP6 or ROR1/2 without affecting Wnt-FZD complex stability. Intriguingly, we demonstrate that the N-terminus of Wnt3a is required for Wnt3a binding to LRP6 and activating beta-catenin signaling, while the N-terminus of Wnt5a is dispensable for recruiting and phosphorylating ROR1/2. Both Tiki enzymatic activity and its association with the Wnt-FZD complex contribute to its inhibitory function on Wnt5a. Our study uncovers the mechanism by which Tiki antagonizes Wnt signaling at the cell surface and reveals a negative role of FZDs in Wnt signaling by acting as Tiki cofactors. Our findings also reveal an unexpected role of the Wnt3a N-terminus in the engagement of the coreceptor LRP6.
PXD034171	36995326	RNA Polymerase II transcription independent of TBP in murine embryonic stem cells. 	TAF4 immunoprecipitation from mouse embryonic stem cells 	TAF4 immunoprecipitation, TBP depletion, pre-initiation complex, transcription	Transcription by RNA Polymerase II (Pol II) is initiated by the hierarchical assembly of the pre-initiation complex onto promoter DNA. Decades of research have shown that the TATA-box binding protein (TBP) is essential for Pol II loading and initiation. Here, we report instead that acute depletion of TBP in mouse embryonic stem cells has no global effect on ongoing Pol II transcription. In contrast, acute TBP depletion severely impairs RNA Polymerase III initiation. Furthermore, Pol II transcriptional induction occurs normally upon TBP depletion. This TBP-independent transcription mechanism is not due to a functional redundancy with the TBP paralog TRF2, though TRF2 also binds to promoters of transcribed genes. Rather, we show that the TFIID complex can form and, despite having reduced TAF4 and TFIIA binding when TBP is depleted, the Pol II machinery is sufficiently robust in sustaining TBP-independent transcription.
PXD040331	36996810	Altered striatal actin dynamics drives behavioral inflexibility in a mouse model of fragile X syndrome. 	Altered striatal actin - dynamics drives behavioral inflexibility in a mouse model of Fragile X syndrome	Fmr1(y/ -), actin, cortex, hippocampus, post-synaptic density, striatum	The proteome of glutamatergic synapses is diverse across the mammalian brain and involved in neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). Among those is fragile X syndrome (FXS), an NDD caused by the absence of the functional RNA-binding protein FMRP. Here, we demonstrate how the brain region-specific composition of postsynaptic density (PSD) contributes to FXS. In the striatum, the FXS mouse model shows an altered association of the PSD with the actin cytoskeleton, reflecting immature dendritic spine morphology and reduced synaptic actin dynamics. Enhancing actin turnover with constitutively active RAC1 ameliorates these deficits. At the behavioral level, the FXS model displays striatal-driven inflexibility, a typical feature of FXS individuals, which is rescued by exogenous RAC1. Striatal ablation of Fmr1 is sufficient to recapitulate behavioral impairments observed in the FXS model. These results indicate that dysregulation of synaptic actin dynamics in the striatum, a region largely unexplored in FXS, contributes to the manifestation of FXS behavioral phenotypes.
PXD038454	36996814	Large neutral amino acid levels tune perinatal neuronal excitability and survival. 	Large neutral amino acid levels tune perinatal neuronal excitability and survival	TMT 10plex cortex mouse amino acid SLC7A5 development	Little is known about the critical metabolic changes that neural cells have to undergo during development and how temporary shifts in this program can influence brain circuitries and behavior. Inspired by the discovery that mutations in SLC7A5, a transporter of metabolically essential large neutral amino acids (LNAAs), lead to autism, we employed metabolomic profiling to study the metabolic states of the cerebral cortex across different developmental stages. We found that the forebrain undergoes significant metabolic remodeling throughout development, with certain groups of metabolites showing stage-specific changes, but what are the consequences of perturbing this metabolic program? By manipulating Slc7a5 expression in neural cells, we found that the metabolism of LNAAs and lipids are interconnected in the cortex. Deletion of Slc7a5 in neurons affects the postnatal metabolic state, leading to a shift in lipid metabolism. Additionally, it causes stage- and cell-type-specific alterations in neuronal activity patterns, resulting in a long-term circuit dysfunction.
PXD038281	36997596	Release of frustration drives corneal amyloid disaggregation by brain chaperone. 	Proteomics analysis of the corneal amyloid disaggregation effects by brain chaperone L-PGDS	ATP independent, L-PGDS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, TGFBI-related corneal dystrophy, amyloid disaggregation, corneal dystrophy	TGFBI-related corneal dystrophy (CD) is characterized by the accumulation of insoluble protein deposits in the corneal tissues, eventually leading to progressive corneal opacity. Here we show that ATP-independent amyloid-beta chaperone L-PGDS can effectively disaggregate corneal amyloids in surgically excised human cornea of TGFBI-CD patients and release trapped amyloid hallmark proteins. Since the mechanism of amyloid disassembly by ATP-independent chaperones is unknown, we reconstructed atomic models of the amyloids self-assembled from TGFBIp-derived peptides and their complex with L-PGDS using cryo-EM and NMR. We show that L-PGDS specifically recognizes structurally frustrated regions in the amyloids and releases those frustrations. The released free energy increases the chaperone's binding affinity to amyloids, resulting in local restructuring and breakage of amyloids to protofibrils. Our mechanistic model provides insights into the alternative source of energy utilized by ATP-independent disaggregases and highlights the possibility of using these chaperones as treatment strategies for different types of amyloid-related diseases.
PXD035858	36998071	CDK9 inhibition induces epigenetic reprogramming revealing strategies to circumvent resistance in lymphoma. 	Proteomic characterization of NHL cells in presence of CDK9 inhibitor	CDK9, lymphoma, phosphoproteomics	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) exhibits significant genetic heterogeneity which contributes to drug resistance, necessitating development of novel therapeutic approaches. Pharmacological inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) demonstrated pre-clinical activity in DLBCL, however many stalled in clinical development. Here we show that AZD4573, a selective inhibitor of CDK9, restricted growth of DLBCL cells. CDK9 inhibition (CDK9i) resulted in rapid changes in the transcriptome and proteome, with downmodulation of multiple oncoproteins (eg, MYC, Mcl-1, JunB, PIM3) and deregulation of phosphoinotiside-3 kinase (PI3K) and senescence pathways. Following initial transcriptional repression due to RNAPII pausing, we observed transcriptional recovery of several oncogenes, including MYC and PIM3. ATAC-Seq and ChIP-Seq experiments revealed that CDK9i induced epigenetic remodeling with bi-directional changes in chromatin accessibility, suppressed promoter activation and led to sustained reprograming of the super-enhancer landscape. A CRISPR library screen suggested that SE-associated genes in the Mediator complex, as well as AKT1, confer resistance to CDK9i. Consistent with this, sgRNA-mediated knockout of MED12 sensitized cells to CDK9i. Informed by our mechanistic findings, we combined AZD4573 with either PIM kinase or PI3K inhibitors. Both combinations decreased proliferation and induced apoptosis in DLBCL and primary lymphoma cells in vitro as well as resulted in delayed tumor progression and extended survival of mice xenografted with DLBCL in vivo. Thus, CDK9i induces reprogramming of the epigenetic landscape, and super-enhancer driven recovery of select oncogenes may contribute to resistance to CDK9i. PIM and PI3K represent potential targets to circumvent resistance to CDK9i in the heterogeneous landscape of DLBCL.
PXD047554	36998115	A Glycosidic-Bond-Based Mass-Spectrometry-Cleavable Cross-linker Enables In Vivo Cross-linking for Protein Complex Analysis. 	A Glycosidic-Bond-Based Mass-Spectrometry-Cleavable Cross-linker Enables In Vivo Cross-linking for Protein Complex Analysis	cross-linker	Chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry (CXMS) has emerged as a powerful technology to analyze protein complexes. However, the progress of in vivo CXMS studies has been limited by cross-linking biocompatibility and data analysis. Herein, a glycosidic bond-based MS-cleavable cross-linker of trehalose disuccinimidyl ester (TDS) was designed and synthesized, which was fragmented in MS under CID/HCD to simplify the cross-linked peptides into conventional single peptides via selective cleavage between glycosidic and peptide bonds under individual MS collision energy. Consequently, the cross-linking identification accuracy and throughput were significantly enhanced, and the popular MS mode of stepped HCD was allowed. In addition, TDS showed proper cell-penetrating properties while being highly water-soluble, making it non-DMSO dependent during solubilization. Collectively, TDS provides a promising toolkit for CXMS characterization of living systems with high biocompatibility and accuracy.
PXD038395	36	The effects of processing of barley-based supplements on rumen pH, rate of digestion of voluntary intake of dried grass in sheep. 	CRISPR-Cas9 genetic screen leads to the discovery of L-Moses, a KAT2B inhibitor that attenuates Tunicamycin-mediated neurodegeneration	KAT2B, L-Moses, acetylome, cortical neurons, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress	1. In one experiment the effect on rumen pH of feeding with restricted amounts of whole or pelleted barley was studied. With whole barley there was little variation in rumen pH associated with feeding time, but with pelleted barley the pH decreased from about 7-0 before feeding to about 5-3, 2--3 h after feeding. 2. The rate of disappearance of dried grass during incubation in the rumens of sheep receiving either whole or pelleted barley was studied in a second experiment. After 24 h incubation only 423 mg/g incubated had disappeared in the rumen of sheep receiving pelleted barley while 625 mg/g incubated had disappeared when it was incubated in the rumen of sheep receiving whole barley. 3. The voluntary intake of dried grass of lambs was studied in a third experiment when they received supplements of either 25 or 50 g whole or pelleted barley/kg live weight 0-75. At the high level, pelleted barley reduced intake of dried grass by 534 g/kg but whole barley reduced it by only 352 g/kg. The digestibility of acid-detergent fibre was reduced more by pelleted barley than by whole barley but there was a tendency for a small increase in digestibility of the barley due to processing. 4. The implications of these findings on supplementation of roughages with cereals are discussed.
PXD039086	37000297	Identification of levoglucosan degradation pathways in bacteria and sequence similarity network analysis. 	Identification of levoglucosan degradation pathways in bacteria	levoglucosan	Levoglucosan is produced in the pyrolysis of cellulose and starch, including from bushfires or the burning of biofuels, and is deposited from the atmosphere across the surface of the earth. We describe two levoglucosan degrading Paenarthrobacter spp. (Paenarthrobacter nitrojuajacolis LG01 and Paenarthrobacter histidinolovorans LG02) that were isolated from soil by metabolic enrichment using levoglucosan as the sole carbon source. Genome sequencing and proteomics analysis revealed the expression of a series of genes encoding known levoglucosan degrading enzymes, levoglucosan dehydrogenase (LGDH, LgdA), 3-keto-levoglucosan beta -eliminase (LgdB1) and glucose 3-dehydrogenase (LgdC), along with an ABC transporter cassette and an associated solute binding protein. However, no homologues of 3-ketoglucose dehydratase (LgdB2) were evident, while the expressed genes contained a range of putative sugar phosphate isomerases/xylose isomerases with weak similarity to LgdB2. Sequence similarity network analysis of genome neighbours of LgdA revealed that homologues of LgdB1 and LgdC are generally conserved in a range of bacteria in the phyla Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria. One group of sugar phosphate isomerase/xylose isomerase homologues (named LgdB3) was identified with limited distribution that is mutually exclusive with LgdB2, and we propose that they may fulfil a similar function. LgdB1, LgdB2 and LgdB3 adopt similar predicted 3D folds, suggesting overlapping function in processing intermediates in LG metabolism. Our findings highlight diversity within the LGDH pathway, through which bacteria utilize levoglucosan as a nutrient source.
PXD040466	37000881	Targeting the NEDP1 enzyme to ameliorate ALS phenotypes through stress granule disassembly. 	Identification of NEDD8 sites at endogenous levels of NEDD8 expression upon NEDP1 (SENP8, DEN1) knockout.	NEDD8, NEDDylation, UAEi, anti-diGly antibodies, antibody, diGly, inhibitor, ubiquitin	The elimination of aberrant inclusions is regarded as a therapeutic approach in neurodegeneration. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), mutations in proteins found within cytoplasmic condensates called stress granules (SGs) are linked to the formation of pathological SGs, aberrant protein inclusions, and neuronal toxicity. We found that inhibition of NEDP1, the enzyme that processes/deconjugates the ubiquitin-like molecule NEDD8, promotes the disassembly of physiological and pathological SGs. Reduction in poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase1 activity through hyper-NEDDylation is a key mechanism for the observed phenotype. These effects are related to improved cell survival in human cells, and in C. elegans, nedp1 deletion ameliorates ALS phenotypes related to animal motility. Our studies reveal NEDP1 as potential therapeutic target for ALS, correlated to the disassembly of pathological SGs.
PXD037000	37000885	Proteolytic processing of galectin-3 by meprin metalloproteases is crucial for host-microbiome homeostasis. 	Proteolytic processing of galectin-3 is crucial for host microbiome homeostasis	LC-MS, N-terminomics, meprin	The metalloproteases meprin alpha and meprin beta are highly expressed in the healthy gut but significantly decreased in inflammatory bowel disease, implicating a protective role in mucosal homeostasis. In the colon, meprin alpha and meprin beta form covalently linked heterodimers tethering meprin alpha to the plasma membrane, therefore presenting dual proteolytic activity in a unique enzyme complex. To unravel its function, we applied N-terminomics and identified galectin-3 as the major intestinal substrate for meprin alpha/beta heterodimers. Galectin-3-deficient and meprin alpha/beta double knockout mice show similar alterations in their microbiome in comparison to wild-type mice. We further demonstrate that meprin alpha/beta heterodimers differentially process galectin-3 upon bacterial infection, in germ-free, conventionally housed (specific pathogen-free), or wildling mice, which in turn regulates the bacterial agglutination properties of galectin-3. Thus, the constitutive cleavage of galectin-3 by meprin alpha/beta heterodimers may play a key role in colon host-microbiome homeostasis.
PXD036904	37000891	Formation of ER-lumenal intermediates during export of Plasmodium proteins containing transmembrane-like hydrophobic sequences. 	Formation of ER-lumenal intermediates during export of Plasmodium proteins containing transmembrane-like hydrophobic sequences	Plasmodium	During the blood stage of a malaria infection, malaria parasites export both soluble and membrane proteins into the erythrocytes in which they reside. Exported proteins are trafficked via the parasite endoplasmic reticulum and secretory pathway, before being exported across the parasitophorous vacuole membrane into the erythrocyte. Transport across the parasitophorous vacuole membrane requires protein unfolding, and in the case of membrane proteins, extraction from the parasite plasma membrane. We show that trafficking of the exported Plasmodium protein, Pf332, differs from that of canonical eukaryotic soluble-secreted and transmembrane proteins. Pf332 is initially ER-targeted by an internal hydrophobic sequence that unlike a signal peptide, is not proteolytically removed, and unlike a transmembrane segment, does not span the ER membrane. Rather, both termini of the hydrophobic sequence enter the ER lumen and the ER-lumenal species is a productive intermediate for protein export. Furthermore, we show in intact cells, that two other exported membrane proteins, SBP1 and MAHRP2, assume a lumenal topology within the parasite secretory pathway. Although the addition of a C-terminal ER-retention sequence, recognised by the lumenal domain of the KDEL receptor, does not completely block export of SBP1 and MAHRP2, it does enhance their retention in the parasite ER. This indicates that a sub-population of each protein adopts an ER-lumenal state that is an intermediate in the export process. Overall, this suggests that although many exported proteins traverse the parasite secretory pathway as typical soluble or membrane proteins, some exported proteins that are ER-targeted by a transmembrane segment-like, internal, non-cleaved hydrophobic segment, do not integrate into the ER membrane, and form an ER-lumenal species that is a productive export intermediate. This represents a novel means, not seen in typical membrane proteins found in model systems, by which exported transmembrane-like proteins can be targeted and trafficked within the lumen of the secretory pathway.
PXD022787	37001506	The EN-TEx resource of multi-tissue personal epigenomes & variant-impact models. 	The EN-TEx Resource for Personal Functional Genomics	EN-TEx, Personal Genomics, Proteogenomics, TMT, Tissue	Understanding how genetic variants impact molecular phenotypes is a key goal of functional genomics, currently hindered by reliance on a single haploid reference genome. Here, we present the EN-TEx resource of 1,635 open-access datasets from four donors (~30 tissues x ~15 assays). The datasets are mapped to matched, diploid genomes with long-read phasing and structural variants, instantiating a catalog of >1 million allele-specific loci. These loci exhibit coordinated activity along haplotypes and are less conserved than corresponding, non-allele-specific ones. Surprisingly, a deep-learning transformer model can predict the allele-specific activity based only on local nucleotide-sequence context, highlighting the importance of transcription-factor-binding motifs particularly sensitive to variants. Furthermore, combining EN-TEx with existing genome annotations reveals strong associations between allele-specific and GWAS loci. It also enables models for transferring known eQTLs to difficult-to-profile tissues (e.g., from skin to heart). Overall, EN-TEx provides rich data and generalizable models for more accurate personal functional genomics.
PXD037265	37001587	SARS-CoV-2 Variants Show Different Host Cell Proteome Profiles With Delayed Immune Response Activation in Omicron-Infected Cells. 	Total Proteomics of SARS-CoV-2  variants	Delta, Omicron, ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2, Sars-cov-2	The ancestral SARS-CoV-2 strain that initiated the Covid-19 pandemic at the end of 2019 has rapidly mutated into multiple variants of concern with variable pathogenicity and increasing immune escape strategies. However, differences in host cellular antiviral responses upon infection with SARS-CoV-2 variants remain elusive. Leveraging whole-cell proteomics, we determined host signaling pathways that are differentially modulated upon infection with the clinical isolates of the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 B.1 and the variants of concern Delta and Omicron BA.1. Our findings illustrate alterations in the global host proteome landscape upon infection with SARS-CoV-2 variants and the resulting host immune responses. Additionally, viral proteome kinetics reveal declining levels of viral protein expression during Omicron BA.1 infection when compared to ancestral B.1 and Delta variants, consistent with its reduced replication rates. Moreover, molecular assays reveal deferral activation of specific host antiviral signaling upon Omicron BA.1 and BA.2 infections. Our study provides an overview of host proteome profile of multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants and brings forth a better understanding of the instigation of key immune signaling pathways causative for the differential pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 variants.
PXD024325	37001827	Sex-specific microglia state in the Neuroligin-4 knock-out mouse model of autism spectrum disorder. 	Sex-Specific Microglia Defects in the Neuroligin-4 Knock-Out Mouse Model of Autism Spectrum Disorder	Autism spectrum disorder, Estrogen, Gamma oscillation, Microglia, Sex difference	Neuroligin-4 (NLGN4) loss-of-function mutations are associated with monogenic heritable autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and cause alterations in both synaptic and behavioral phenotypes. Microglia, the resident CNS macrophages, are implicated in ASD development and progression. Here we studied the impact of NLGN4 loss in a mouse model, focusing on microglia phenotype and function in both male and female mice. NLGN4 depletion caused lower microglia density, less ramified morphology, reduced response to injury and purinergic signaling specifically in the hippocampal CA3 region predominantly in male mice. Proteomic analysis revealed disrupted energy metabolism in male microglia and provided further evidence for sexual dimorphism in the ASD associated microglial phenotype. In addition, we observed impaired gamma oscillations in a sex-dependent manner. Lastly, estradiol application in male NLGN4(-/-) mice restored the altered microglial phenotype and function. Together, these results indicate that loss of NLGN4 affects not only neuronal network activity, but also changes the microglia state in a sex-dependent manner that could be targeted by estradiol treatment.
PXD032406	37002195	USP18 is an essential regulator of muscle cell differentiation and maturation. 	USP18-dependent muscle proteome	Dermatomyositis, Muscle Cell Differentiation, Myogenesis, Skeletal Muscle, USP18	The ubiquitin proteasomal system is a critical regulator of muscle physiology, and impaired UPS is key in many muscle pathologies. Yet, little is known about the function of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) in the muscle cell context. We performed a genetic screen to identify DUBs as potential regulators of muscle cell differentiation. Surprisingly, we observed that the depletion of ubiquitin-specific protease 18 (USP18) affected the differentiation of muscle cells. USP18 depletion first stimulated differentiation initiation. Later, during differentiation, the absence of USP18 expression abrogated myotube maintenance. USP18 enzymatic function typically attenuates the immune response by removing interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) from protein substrates. However, in muscle cells, we found that USP18, predominantly nuclear, regulates differentiation independent of ISG15 and the ISG response. Exploring the pattern of RNA expression profiles and protein networks whose levels depend on USP18 expression, we found that differentiation initiation was concomitant with reduced expression of the cell-cycle gene network and altered expression of myogenic transcription (co) factors. We show that USP18 depletion altered the calcium channel gene network, resulting in reduced calcium flux in myotubes. Additionally, we show that reduced expression of sarcomeric proteins in the USP18 proteome was consistent with reduced contractile force in an engineered muscle model. Our results revealed nuclear USP18 as a critical regulator of differentiation initiation and maintenance, independent of ISG15 and its role in the ISG response.
PXD024510	37002413	Permafrost preservation reveals proteomic evidence for yak milk consumption in the 13(th) century. 	Proteomic Analysis of Dental Calculus from an Elite Mongol Cemetery	LC-MS/MS archaeology dental calculus	Domesticated yaks endure as iconic symbols of high-altitude frozen landscapes, where herding communities depend on their high-fat milk, transport, dung, and natural fibers. While there is established proteomic evidence for ancient consumption of ruminant and horse milk in the mountains and steppes of northern Eurasia, yak dairy products have yet to be detected. Yak domestication and the species' dispersal from Tibet into the mountainous zones to the north are also poorly resolved due to a paucity of zooarchaeological data. To examine the potential of paleoproteomics to shed light on domesticated yak in Mongolia, we analyzed human dental calculus from Mongol era elite individuals recovered from permafrost burials in Khovsgol province, where people continue to herd yak to this day. We report the first evidence for yak dairy consumption, linked to local resource control. In addition, we confirm a large diversity of recovered whey, curd, tissue, and blood proteins, likely reflecting the excellent preservation conditions found at permafrost sites.
PXD036595	37002921	The mitochondrial protease OMA1 acts as a metabolic safeguard upon nuclear DNA damage. 	The mitochondrial protease OMA1 acts as a metabolic safeguard upon nuclear DNA damage	DIA, MEF, Mitochondria, OMA1	The metabolic plasticity of mitochondria ensures cell development, differentiation, and survival. The peptidase OMA1 regulates mitochondrial morphology via OPA1 and stress signaling via DELE1 and orchestrates tumorigenesis and cell survival in a cell- and tissue-specific manner. Here, we use unbiased systems-based approaches to show that OMA1-dependent cell survival depends on metabolic cues. A metabolism-focused CRISPR screen combined with an integrated analysis of human gene expression data found that OMA1 protects against DNA damage. Nucleotide deficiencies induced by chemotherapeutic agents promote p53-dependent apoptosis of cells lacking OMA1. The protective effect of OMA1 does not depend on OMA1 activation or OMA1-mediated OPA1 and DELE1 processing. OMA1-deficient cells show reduced glycolysis and accumulate oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) proteins upon DNA damage. OXPHOS inhibition restores glycolysis and confers resistance against DNA damage. Thus, OMA1 dictates the balance between cell death and survival through the control of glucose metabolism, shedding light on its role in cancerogenesis.
PXD040481	37002924	Malonylation of Acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 promotes hepatic steatosis and is attenuated by ketogenic diet in NAFLD. 	Malonylation of Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase 1 Promotes Hepatic Steatosis and Is Attenuated by Ketogenic Diet in NAFLD	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1, Hepatic steatosis, Ketogenic diet., Lysine malonylation	Protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) participate in important bioactive regulatory processes and therefore can help elucidate the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Here, we investigate the involvement of PTMs in ketogenic diet (KD)-improved fatty liver by multi-omics and reveal a core target of lysine malonylation, acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) carboxylase 1 (ACC1). ACC1 protein levels and Lys1523 malonylation are significantly decreased by KD. A malonylation-mimic mutant of ACC1 increases its enzyme activity and stability to promote hepatic steatosis, whereas the malonylation-null mutant upregulates the ubiquitination degradation of ACC1. A customized (Lys1523)ACC1 malonylation antibody confirms the increased malonylation of ACC1 in the NAFLD samples. Overall, the lysine malonylation of ACC1 is attenuated by KD in NAFLD and plays an important role in promoting hepatic steatosis. Malonylation is critical for ACC1 activity and stability, highlighting the anti-malonylation effect of ACC1 as a potential strategy for treating NAFLD.
PXD035565	37004076	Novel bacterial proteolytic and metabolic activity associated with dental erosion-induced oral dysbiosis. 	Comparison of saliva from healthy and patients with dental erosion	acquired enamel pellicle, calcium, prolactin-induced protein, proteins, saliva, statherin, zinc alpha-2 glycoprotein	BACKGROUND: Dental erosion is a disease of the oral cavity where acids cause a loss of tooth enamel and is defined as having no bacterial involvement. The tooth surface is protected from acid attack by salivary proteins that make up the acquired enamel pellicle (AEP). Bacteria have been shown to readily degrade salivary proteins, and some of which are present in the AEP. This study aimed to explore the role of bacteria in dental erosion using a multi-omics approach by comparing saliva collected from participants with dental erosion and healthy controls. RESULTS: Salivary proteomics was assessed by liquid-chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and demonstrated two altered AEP proteins in erosion, prolactin inducible protein (PIP), and zinc-alpha-2 glycoprotein (ZAG). Immunoblotting further suggested that degradation of PIP and ZAG is associated with erosion. Salivary microbiome analysis was performed by sequencing the bacterial 16S rRNA gene (V1-V2 region, Illumina) and showed that participants with dental erosion had a significantly (p < 0.05) less diverse microbiome than healthy controls (observed and Shannon diversity). Sequencing of bacterial mRNA for gene expression (Illumina sequencing) demonstrated that genes over-expressed in saliva from erosion participants included H + proton transporter genes, and three protease genes (msrAB, vanY, and ppdC). Salivary metabolomics was assessed using nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry (NMR). Metabolite concentrations correlated with gene expression, demonstrating that the dental erosion group had strong correlations between metabolites associated with protein degradation and amino acid fermentation. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that microbial proteolysis of salivary proteins found in the protective acquired enamel pellicle strongly correlates with dental erosion, and we propose four novel microbial genes implicated in this process. Video Abstract.
PXD040974	37004159	Metabolic labeling and LC-MS/MS-based identification of interleukin-1alpha-induced secreted proteomes from epithelial cells in the presence or absence of serum. 	Metabolic labelling and LC-MS/MS-based identification of IL-1alpha-induced secreted proteomes from epithelial cells in the presence or absence of serum	HPG-Labeling, IL-1 alpha, affinity proteomics, metabolic labeling, secretome	The unbiased identification of cytokine-induced, secreted proteins from cells cultured in serum-containing medium is challenging. Here, we describe an experimental and bioinformatics workflow to label interleukin-1alpha-regulated proteins in living cells with the methionine analogue L-homopropargylglycine. We detail their purification and identification by means of CLICK-chemistry-based biotinylation followed by nanoHPLC-MS/MS. A side-by-side comparison of enriched proteins and their ontologies to serum-free conditions demonstrates the sensitivity and specificity of this approach to study the inducible secreted proteomes of epithelial cells.
PXD038420	37005662	Neuroglobin plays as tumor suppressor by disrupting the stability of GPR35 in colorectal cancer. 	Different proteins expression were dectected by iTRAQ assay in NGB/HCT116 and Vector/HCT116	CRC cell line, NGB	BACKGROUND: The incidence of colorectal cancer (CRC) has increased in recent years. Identification of accurate tumor markers has become the focus of CRC research. Early and frequent DNA methylation tends to occur in cancer. Thus, identifying accurate methylation biomarkers would improve the efficacy of CRC treatment. Neuroglobin (NGB) is involved in neurological and oncological diseases. However, there are currently no reports on epigenetic regulation involvement of NGB in CRC. RESULTS: NGB was downregulated or silenced in majority CRC tissues and cell lines. The hypermethylation of NGB was detected in tumor tissue, but no or a very low methylation frequency in normal tissues. Overexpression of NGB induced G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis, suppressed proliferation, migration, invasion in vitro, and inhibited CRC tumor growth and angiogenesis in vivo. Isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (Itraq)-based proteomics identified approximately 40% proteins related to cell-cell adhesion, invasion, and tumor vessel formation in the tumor microenvironment, among which GPR35 was proved critical for NGB-regulated tumor angiogenesis suppression in CRC. CONCLUSIONS: NGB, an epigenetically silenced factor, inhibits metastasis through the GPR35 in CRC. It is expected to grow into a potential cancer risk assessment factor and a valuable biomarker for early diagnosis and prognosis assessment of CRC.
PXD038101	37006533	Combined effects of EMP and RF field on emotional behavior in mice. 	Combined effects of EMP and RF exposure on mouse hippocampus LC-MSMS	hippocampus	Background: Recently, concerns about the combined effects of electromagnetic field (EMF) in daily living and occupational environment are rapidly growing. Methods: In this study, we investigated the combined effects of 1-week exposure to electromagnetic pulse (EMP) at 650 kV/m for 1,000 pulses and 4.9 GHz radiofrequency (RF) at 50 W/m(2) for 1 h/d in male mice. Open field test, tail suspension test and Y-maze were applied to evaluate anxiety, depression-like behaviors and spatial memory ability, respectively. Results: It was found that compared with Sham group, combined exposure to EMP and RF induced anxiety-like behavior, increased the level of serum S100B and decreased the level of serum 5-HT. The results of quantitative proteomic and KEGG analysis showed that the differentially expressed proteins in hippocampus were enriched in Glutamatergic and GABAergic synapse after combined exposure group, which were verified by western blot. In addition, an obvious histological alteration and autophagy-associated cell death were observed in amygdala instead of hippocampus after combined exposure to EMP and 4.9 GHz RF. Conclusion: Combined exposure to EMP and 4.9 GHz RF could induce emotional behavior alteration, which might be associated with Glutamatergic and GABAergic synapse system of hippocampus and autophagy in amygdala.
PXD040335	37007793	Pyruvate kinase M2 modification by a lipid peroxidation byproduct acrolein contributes to kidney fibrosis. 	Pyruvate kinase M2 modification by a lipid peroxidation byproduct acrolein contributes to kidney fibrosis	Acrolein, Carnosine., Hydralazine, Pyruvate kinase M2, Renal fibrosis, hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha	Renal fibrosis is a hallmark of diabetic nephropathy (DN) and is characterized by an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) program and aberrant glycolysis. The underlying mechanisms of renal fibrosis are still poorly understood, and existing treatments are only marginally effective. Therefore, it is crucial to comprehend the pathophysiological mechanisms behind the development of renal fibrosis and to generate novel therapeutic approaches. Acrolein, an alpha-,beta-unsaturated aldehyde, is endogenously produced during lipid peroxidation. Acrolein shows high reactivity with proteins to form acrolein-protein conjugates (Acr-PCs), resulting in alterations in protein function. In previous research, we found elevated levels of Acr-PCs along with kidney injuries in high-fat diet-streptozotocin (HFD-STZ)-induced DN mice. This study used a proteomic approach with an anti-Acr-PC antibody followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis to identify several acrolein-modified protein targets. Among these protein targets, pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) was found to be modified by acrolein at Cys358, leading to the inactivation of PKM2 contributing to the pathogenesis of renal fibrosis through HIF1alpha accumulation, aberrant glycolysis, and upregulation of EMT in HFD-STZ-induced DN mice. Finally, PKM2 activity and renal fibrosis in DN mice can be reduced by acrolein scavengers such as hydralazine and carnosine. These results imply that acrolein-modified PKM2 contributes to renal fibrosis in the pathogenesis of DN.
PXD038344	37008342	Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics analyses of a chicken-original virulent and its attenuated Histomonas meleagridis strain in China. 	Tandem Mass Tag-based Quantitative Proteomics Analyses of a Chicken-Original Virulent and Its Attenuated Histomonas meleagridis Strain in China	Attenuation, Histomonas meleagridis, TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis, Virulence, parallel reaction monitoring	Introduction: Histomonas meleagridis can cause histomonosis in poultry. Due to the prohibition of effective drugs, the prevention and treatment of the disease requires new strategies. Questions about its pathogenic mechanisms and virulence factors remain puzzling. Methods: To address these issues, a tandem mass tag (TMT) comparative proteomic analysis of a virulent strain and its attenuated strain of Chinese chicken-origin was performed. Results: A total of 3,494 proteins were identified in the experiment, of which 745 proteins were differentially expressed (fold change >=1.2 or <=0.83 and p < 0.05), with 192 up-regulated proteins and 553 down-regulated proteins in the virulent strain relative to the attenuated strain. Discussion: Surface protein BspA like, digestive cysteine proteinase, actin, and GH family 25 lysozyme were noted among the proteins up regulated in virulent strains, and these several proteins may be directly related to the pathogenic capacity of the histomonad. Ferredoxin, 60S ribosomal protein L6, 40S ribosomal protein S3, and NADP-dependent malic enzyme which associated with biosynthesis and metabolism were also noted, which have the potential to be new drug targets. The up-regulation of alpha-amylase, ras-like protein 1, ras-like protein 2, and involucrin in attenuated strains helps to understand how it is adapted to the long-term in vitro culture environment. The above results provide some candidate protein-coding genes for further functional verification, which will help to understand the molecular mechanism of pathogenicity and attenuation of H. meleagridis more comprehensively.
PXD036476	37008699	Characterization of complement C3 as a marker of alpha-amanitin toxicity by comparative secretome profiling. 	Characterization of hepatocytes secretomes after alpha-amanitin exposure by quantitative proteomics	Complement component 3, alpha-amanitin, exposure marker, secretomes, toxic mushroom	In the human body, proteins secreted into peripheral blood vessels are known as the secretome, and they represent the physiological or pathological status of cells. The unique response of cells to toxin exposure can be confirmed via secretome analysis, which can be used to discover toxic mechanisms or exposure markers. Alpha-amanitin (alpha-AMA) is the most widely studied amatoxin and inhibits transcription and protein synthesis by directly interacting with RNA polymerase II. However, secretory proteins released during hepatic failure caused by alpha-AMA have not been fully characterized. In this study, we analyzed the secretome of alpha-AMA-treated Huh-7 cells and mice using a comparative proteomics technique. Overall, 1440 and 208 proteins were quantified in cell media and mouse serum, respectively. Based on the bioinformatics results for the commonly downregulated proteins in cell media and mouse serum, we identified complement component 3 (C3) as a marker for alpha-AMA-induced hepatotoxicity. Through western blot in cell secretome and C3 ELISA assays in mouse serum, we validated alpha-AMA-induced downregulation of C3. In conclusion, using comparative proteomics and molecular biology techniques, we found that alpha-AMA-induced hepatotoxicity reduced C3 levels in the secretome. We expect that this study will aid in identifying new toxic mechanisms, therapeutic targets, and exposure markers of alpha-AMA-induced hepatotoxicity. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43188-022-00163-z.
PXD039846	37009232	Wnt/beta-catenin signaling induces axial elasticity patterns of Hydra extracellular matrix. 	Comparative Wnt dependent Hydra ECM proteome	Extracellular Matrix, Hydra, Mesoglea, Wnt	The extracellular matrix (ECM) plays crucial roles in animal development and diseases. Here, we report that Wnt/beta-catenin signaling induces the ECM remodeling during Hydra axis formation. We determined the micro- and nanoscopic arrangement of fibrillar type I collagen along Hydra's body axis using high-resolution microscopy and X-ray scattering. Elasticity mapping of the ECM ex vivo revealed distinctive elasticity patterns along the body axis. A proteomic analysis of the ECM showed that these elasticity patterns correlate with a gradient-like distribution of metalloproteases along the body axis. Activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in wild-type and transgenic animals alters these patterns toward low ECM elasticity patterns. This suggests a mechanism whereby high protease activity under control of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling causes remodeling and softening of the ECM. This Wnt-dependent spatiotemporal coordination of biochemical and biomechanical cues in ECM formation was likely a central evolutionary innovation for animal tissue morphogenesis.
PXD040593	37009470	Integrated proteome sequencing, bulk RNA sequencing and single-cell RNA sequencing to identify potential biomarkers in different grades of intervertebral disc degeneration. 	Integrated with Proteome-sequencing, bulk RNA-sequencing and Single cell RNA-sequencing to identify potential biomarkers in different grades of intervertebral disc degeneration	Proteome-sequencing, intervertebral disc degeneration	Low back pain (LBP) is a prevalent health problem worldwide that affects over 80% of adults during their lifetime. Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a well-recognized leading cause of LBP. IDD is classified into five grades according to the Pfirrmann classification system. The purpose of this study was to identify potential biomarkers in different IDD grades through an integrated analysis of proteome sequencing (PRO-seq), bulk RNA sequencing (bRNA-seq) and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data. Eight cases of grade I-IV IDD were obtained. Grades I and II were considered non-degenerative discs (relatively normal), whereas grades III and IV were considered degenerative discs. PRO-seq analysis was performed to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in various IDD grades. Variation analysis was performed on bRNA-seq data to differentiate expressed genes (DEGs) in normal and degenerated discs. In addition, scRNA-seq was performed to validate DEGs in degenerated and non-degenerated nucleus pulposus (NP). Machine learning (ML) algorithms were used to screen hub genes. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to validate the efficiency of the screened hub genes to predict IDD. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were performed to analyze function enrichment and signaling pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was used to prioritize disease-related proteins. SERPINA1, ORM2, FGG and COL1A1 were identified through PRO-seq as the hub proteins involved in regulating IDD. ML algorithms selected ten hub genes, including IBSP, COL6A2, MMP2, SERPINA1, ACAN, FBLN7, LAMB2, TTLL7, COL9A3, and THBS4 in bRNA-seq. Since serine protease inhibitor clade A member 1 (SERPINA1) was the only common gene, its accuracy in degenerated and non-degenerated NP cells was validated using scRNA-seq. Then, the rat degeneration model of caudal vertebra was established. The expression of SERPINA1 and ORM2 was detected using immunohistochemical staining of human and rat intervertebral discs. The results showed that SERPINA1 was poorly expressed in the degenerative group. We further explored the potential function of SERPINA1 by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and cell-cell communication. Therefore, SERPINA1 can be used as a biomarker to regulate or predict the progress of disc degeneration.
PXD037416	37010382	Avidity-Based Method for the Efficient Generation of Monoubiquitinated Recombinant Proteins. 	Quantitative analysis of protein ubiquitination	IBAQ-Ub, LCMS, quantitative proteomics, stoichiometry, ubiquitination	Monoubiquitination of proteins governs diverse physiological processes, and its dysregulation is implicated in multiple pathologies. The difficulty of preparing sufficient material often complicates the biophysical studies of monoubiquitinated recombinant proteins. Here we describe a robust avidity-based method that overcomes this problem. As a proof-of-concept, we produced milligram quantities of two monoubiquitinated targets, Parkinson's protein alpha-synuclein and ESCRT-protein ALIX, using NEDD4-family E3 ligases. Monoubiquitination hotspots were identified by quantitative chemical proteomics. Using FRAP and dye-binding assays, we uncovered strikingly opposite effects of monoubiquitination on the phase separation and fibrillization properties of these two amyloidogenic proteins, reflecting differences in their intermolecular interactions, thereby providing unique insights into the impact of monoubiquitination on protein aggregation.
PXD041975	37010886	Cohesin-independent STAG proteins interact with RNA and R-loops and promote complex loading. 	Identification of the protein interaction network of STAG2 protein isoforms with inclusion and exclusion of exon32	AP-MS	Most studies of cohesin function consider the Stromalin Antigen (STAG/SA) proteins as core complex members given their ubiquitous interaction with the cohesin ring. Here, we provide functional data to support the notion that the SA subunit is not a mere passenger in this structure, but instead plays a key role in the localization of cohesin to diverse biological processes and promotes loading of the complex at these sites. We show that in cells acutely depleted for RAD21, SA proteins remain bound to chromatin, cluster in 3D and interact with CTCF, as well as with a wide range of RNA binding proteins involved in multiple RNA processing mechanisms. Accordingly, SA proteins interact with RNA, and R-loops, even in the absence of cohesin. Our results place SA1 on chromatin upstream of the cohesin ring and reveal a role for SA1 in cohesin loading which is independent of NIPBL, the canonical cohesin loader. We propose that SA1 takes advantage of structural R-loop platforms to link cohesin loading and chromatin structure with diverse functions. Since SA proteins are pan-cancer targets, and R-loops play an increasingly prevalent role in cancer biology, our results have important implications for the mechanistic understanding of SA proteins in cancer and disease.
PXD038768	37011209	Structural basis of calmodulin modulation of the rod cyclic nucleotide-gated channel. 	Structural basis of calmodulin modulation of the rod cyclic nucleotide-gated channel (LiP-MS)	LiP-MS, limited proteolysis coupled mass spectrometry, structural proteomics	Calmodulin (CaM) regulates many ion channels to control calcium entry into cells, and mutations that alter this interaction are linked to fatal diseases. The structural basis of CaM regulation remains largely unexplored. In retinal photoreceptors, CaM binds to the CNGB subunit of cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels and, thereby, adjusts the channel's Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) sensitivity in response to changes in ambient light conditions. Here, we provide the structural characterization for CaM regulation of a CNG channel by using a combination of single-particle cryo-electron microscopy and structural proteomics. CaM connects the CNGA and CNGB subunits, resulting in structural changes both in the cytosolic and transmembrane regions of the channel. Cross-linking and limited proteolysis-coupled mass spectrometry mapped the conformational changes induced by CaM in vitro and in the native membrane. We propose that CaM is a constitutive subunit of the rod channel to ensure high sensitivity in dim light. Our mass spectrometry-based approach is generally relevant for studying the effect of CaM on ion channels in tissues of medical interest, where only minute quantities are available.
PXD038811	37011861	FOX transcription factors are common regulators of Wnt/beta-catenin-dependent gene transcription. 	FOX transcription factors are common regulators of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling	FOX transcription factors, TurboID, Wnt signaling	The Wnt/beta-catenin pathway is a critical regulator of development and stem cell maintenance. Mounting evidence suggests that the outcome of Wnt signaling is determined by the collaborative action of multiple transcription factors, including members of the highly conserved forkhead box (FOX) protein family. However, the contribution of FOX transcription factors to Wnt signaling has not been investigated in a systematic manner. Here, we performed complementary screens of all 44 human FOX proteins to identify new Wnt pathway regulators. By combining beta-catenin reporter assays with Wnt pathway-focused qPCR arrays and proximity proteomics of selected candidates, we determine that most FOX proteins are involved in the regulation of Wnt pathway activity. As proof-of-principle, we additionally characterize class D and I FOX transcription factors as physiologically relevant regulators of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. We conclude that FOX proteins are common regulators of Wnt/beta-catenin-dependent gene transcription that may control Wnt pathway activity in a tissue-specific manner.
PXD036594	37011904	Quantification of 782 Plasma Peptides by Multiplexed Targeted Proteomics. 	prm-PASEF and g-dia-PASEF analysis of plasma samples from colorectal cancer and control patients	PASEF PRM DIA PLASMA COLORECTAL CANCER	Blood analysis is one of the foundations of clinical diagnostics. In recent years, the analysis of proteins in blood samples by mass spectrometry has taken a jump forward in terms of sensitivity and the number of identified proteins. The recent development of parallel reaction monitoring with parallel accumulation and serial fragmentation (prm-PASEF) combines ion mobility as an additional separation dimension. This increases the proteome coverage while allowing the use of shorter chromatographic gradients. To demonstrate the method's full potential, we used an isotope-labeled synthetic peptide mix of 782 peptides, derived from 579 plasma proteins, spiked into blood plasma samples with a prm-PASEF measurement allowing the quantification of 565 plasma proteins by targeted proteomics. As a less time-consuming alternative to the prm-PASEF method, we describe guided data independent acquisition (dia)-PASEF (g-dia-PASEF) and compare its application to prm-PASEF for measuring blood plasma. To demonstrate both methods' performance in clinical samples, 20 patient plasma samples from a colorectal cancer (CRC) cohort were analyzed. The analysis identified 14 differentially regulated proteins between the CRC patient and control individual plasma samples. This shows the technique's potential for the rapid and unbiased screening of blood proteins, abolishing the need for the preselection of potential biomarker proteins.
PXD036308	37012254	Farrerol directly activates the deubiqutinase UCHL3 to promote DNA repair and reprogramming when mediated by somatic cell nuclear transfer. 	LiP-small molecule mapping of Farrerol	farrerol, limited protease	Farrerol, a natural flavanone, promotes homologous recombination (HR) repair to improve genome-editing efficiency, but the specific protein that farrerol directly targets to regulate HR repair and the underlying molecular mechanisms have not been determined. Here, we find that the deubiquitinase UCHL3 is the direct target of farrerol. Mechanistically, farrerol enhanced the deubiquitinase activity of UCHL3 to promote RAD51 deubiquitination, thereby improving HR repair. Importantly, we find that embryos of somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) exhibited defective HR repair, increased genomic instability and aneuploidy, and that the farrerol treatment post nuclear transfer enhances HR repair, restores transcriptional and epigenetic network, and promotes SCNT embryo development. Ablating UCHL3 significantly attenuates farrerol-mediated stimulation in HR and SCNT embryo development. In summary, we identify farrerol as an activator of the deubiquitinase UCHL3, highlighted the importance of HR and epigenetic changes in SCNT reprogramming and provide a feasible method to promote SCNT efficiency.
PXD037961	37013003	Integration of pharmacoproteomic and computational approaches reveals the cellular signal transduction pathways affected by apatinib in gastric cancer cell lines. 	Phosphoproteomics and global proteomic analysis of gastric cancer cell lines	TMT, phosphoproteome	Apatinib is known to be a highly selective vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) inhibitor with anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor properties. In a phase III study, the objective response rate to apatinib was low. It remains unclear why the effectivity of apatinib varies among patients and what type of patients are candidates for the treatment. In this study, we investigated the anti-tumor efficacy of apatinib against 13 gastric cancer cell lines and found that it differed depending on the cell line. Using integrated wet and dry approaches, we showed that apatinib was a multi-kinase inhibitor of c-Kit, RAF1, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, and VEGFR3, predominantly inhibiting c-Kit. Notably, KATO-III, which was the most apatinib-sensitive among the gastric cancer cell lines investigated, was the only cell line expressing c-Kit, RAF1, VEGFR1, and VEGFR3 but not VEGFR2. Furthermore, we identified SNW1 as a molecule affected by apatinib that plays an important role in cell survival. Finally, we identified the molecular network related to SNW1 that was affected by treatment with apatinib. These results suggest that the mechanism of action of apatinib in KATO-III cells is independent of VEGFR2 and that the differential efficacy of apatinib was due to differences in expression patterns of receptor tyrosine kinases. Furthermore, our results suggest that the differential efficacy of apatinib in gastric cell lines may be attributed to SNW1 phosphorylation levels at a steady state. These findings contribute to a deeper understanding of the mechanism of action of apatinib in gastric cancer cells.
PXD039335	37014051	Structural and regulatory insights into the glideosome-associated connector from Toxoplasma gondii. 	Structural and regulatory insights into the glideosome-associated connector from Toxoplasma gondii	Apicomplexa, HDX-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), Toxoplasma gondii, X-ray crystallography, gliding motility	The phylum of Apicomplexa groups intracellular parasites that employ substrate-dependent gliding motility to invade host cells, egress from the infected cells, and cross biological barriers. The glideosome-associated connector (GAC) is a conserved protein essential to this process. GAC facilitates the association of actin filaments with surface transmembrane adhesins and the efficient transmission of the force generated by myosin translocation of actin to the cell surface substrate. Here, we present the crystal structure of Toxoplasma gondii GAC and reveal a unique, supercoiled armadillo repeat region that adopts a closed ring conformation. Characterisation of the solution properties together with membrane and F-actin binding interfaces suggests that GAC adopts several conformations from closed to open and extended. A multi-conformational model for assembly and regulation of GAC within the glideosome is proposed.
PXD031077	37014551	Small extracellular vesicles promote invadopodia activity in glioblastoma cells in a therapy-dependent manner. 	Invadopodia small extracellular vesicles glioblastoma	cancer, glioblastoma, invadopodia, radiotherapy, small extracellular vesicles, therapeutic	PURPOSE: The therapeutic efficacy of radiotherapy/temozolomide treatment for glioblastoma (GBM) is limited by the augmented invasiveness mediated by invadopodia activity of surviving GBM cells. As yet, however the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Due to their ability to transport oncogenic material between cells, small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) have emerged as key mediators of tumour progression. We hypothesize that the sustained growth and invasion of cancer cells depends on bidirectional sEV-mediated cell-cell communication. METHODS: Invadopodia assays and zymography gels were used to examine the invadopodia activity capacity of GBM cells. Differential ultracentrifugation was utilized to isolate sEVs from conditioned medium and proteomic analyses were conducted on both GBM cell lines and their sEVs to determine the cargo present within the sEVs. In addition, the impact of radiotherapy and temozolomide treatment of GBM cells was studied. RESULTS: We found that GBM cells form active invadopodia and secrete sEVs containing the matrix metalloproteinase MMP-2. Subsequent proteomic studies revealed the presence of an invadopodia-related protein sEV cargo and that sEVs from highly invadopodia active GBM cells (LN229) increase invadopodia activity in sEV recipient GBM cells. We also found that GBM cells displayed increases in invadopodia activity and sEV secretion post radiation/temozolomide treatment. Together, these data reveal a relationship between invadopodia and sEV composition/secretion/uptake in promoting the invasiveness of GBM cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that sEVs secreted by GBM cells can facilitate tumour invasion by promoting invadopodia activity in recipient cells, which may be enhanced by treatment with radio-chemotherapy. The transfer of pro-invasive cargos may yield important insights into the functional capacity of sEVs in invadopodia.
PXD039107	37014700	Long noncoding RNA HITT coordinates with RGS2 to inhibit PD-L1 translation in T cell immunity. 	Long noncoding RNA HITT coordinates with RGS2 to inhibit PD-L1 translation in T cell immunity-proteome		Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is an immune checkpoint protein frequently expressed in human cancers that contributes to immune evasion through its binding to PD-1 on activated T cells. Unveiling the mechanisms underlying PD-L1 expression is essential for understanding the impact of the immunosuppressive microenvironment and is also crucial for the purpose of reboosting antitumor immunity. However, how PD-L1 is regulated, particularly at translational levels, remains largely unknown. Here, we discovered that a long noncoding RNA (lncRNA), HIF-1alpha inhibitor at translation level (HITT), was transactivated by E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) under IFN-gamma stimulation. It coordinated with regulator of G protein signaling 2 (RGS2) in binding to the 5' UTR of PD-L1, resulting in reduced PD-L1 translation. HITT expression enhanced T cell-mediated cytotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo in a PD-L1-dependent manner. The clinical correlation between HITT/PD-L1 and RGS2/PD-L1 expression was also detected in breast cancer tissues. Together, these findings demonstrate the role of HITT in antitumor T cell immunity, highlighting activation of HITT as a potential therapeutic strategy for enhancing cancer immunotherapy.
PXD029618	37014703	Accumulation of alpha-synuclein mediates podocyte injury in Fabry nephropathy. 	Podocyte injury in Fabry nephropathy	CRISPR/CAS9, Fabry disease, Nephropathy, podocyte	Current therapies for Fabry disease are based on reversing intracellular accumulation of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) by enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) or chaperone-mediated stabilization of the defective enzyme, thereby alleviating lysosomal dysfunction. However, their effect in the reversal of end-organ damage, like kidney injury and chronic kidney disease, remains unclear. In this study, ultrastructural analysis of serial human kidney biopsies showed that long-term use of ERT reduced Gb3 accumulation in podocytes but did not reverse podocyte injury. Then, a CRISPR/Cas9-mediated alpha-galactosidase knockout podocyte cell line confirmed ERT-mediated reversal of Gb3 accumulation without resolution of lysosomal dysfunction. Transcriptome-based connectivity mapping and SILAC-based quantitative proteomics identified alpha-synuclein (SNCA) accumulation as a key event mediating podocyte injury. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of SNCA improved lysosomal structure and function in Fabry podocytes, exceeding the benefits of ERT. Together, this work reconceptualizes Fabry-associated cell injury beyond Gb3 accumulation, and introduces SNCA modulation as a potential intervention, especially for patients with Fabry nephropathy.
PXD040562	37015912	Astrocytes express aberrant immunoglobulins as putative gatekeeper of astrocytes to neuronal progenitor conversion. 	Astrocytes express aberrant immunoglobulins as putative gatekeeper of astrocytes to neuronal progenitor conversion	astrocytes, immunoglobulins	Using multi-omics analyses including RNAseq, RT-PCR, RACE-PCR, and shotgun proteomic with enrichment strategies, we demonstrated that newborn rat astrocytes produce neural immunoglobulin constant and variable heavy chains as well as light chains. However, their edification is different from the ones found in B cells and they resemble aberrant immunoglobulins observed in several cancers. Moreover, the complete enzymatic V(D)J recombination complex has also been identified in astrocytes. In addition, the constant heavy chain is also present in adult rat astrocytes, whereas in primary astrocytes from human fetus we identified constant and variable kappa chains as well as the substitution lambda chains known to be involved in pre-B cells. To gather insights into the function of these neural IgGs, CRISPR-Cas9 of IgG2B constant heavy chain encoding gene (Igh6), IgG2B overexpression, proximal labeling of rat astrocytes IgG2B and targets identification through 2D gels were performed. In Igh6 KO astrocytes, overrepresentation of factors involved in hematopoietic cells, neural stem cells, and the regulation of neuritogenesis have been identified. Moreover, overexpression of IgG2B in astrocytes induces the CRTC1-CREB-BDNF signaling pathway known to be involved in gliogenesis, whereas Igh6 KO triggers the BMP/YAP1/TEAD3 pathway activated in astrocytes dedifferentiation into neural progenitors. Proximal labeling experiments revealed that IgG2B is N-glycosylated by the OST complex, addressed to vesicle membranes containing the ATPase complex, and behaves partially like CD98hc through its association with LAT1. These experiments also suggest that proximal IgG2B-LAT1 interaction occurs concomitantly with MACO-1 and C2CD2L, at the heart of a potentially novel cell signaling platform. Finally, we demonstrated that these chains are synthesized individually and associated to recognize specific targets. Indeed, intermediate filaments Eif4a2 and Pdia6 involved in astrocyte fate constitute targets for these neural IgGs. Taken together, we hypothese that neural aberrant IgG chains may act as gatekeepers of astrocytes' fate.
PXD033097	37015921	tRF-Gln-CTG-026 ameliorates liver injury by alleviating global protein synthesis. 	RNA Pull-Down identifies the interactive proteins with tRF-Gln-CTG-026  in HL-7702 and AML12 cells	RNA Pull-Down, interactive proteins, tRF-Gln-CTG-026	tsRNAs (tRNA-derived small RNAs), as products of the stress response, exert considerable influence on stress response and injury regulation. However, it remains largely unclear whether tsRNAs can ameliorate liver injury. Here, we demonstrate the roles of tsRNAs in alleviating liver injury by utilizing the loss of NSun2 (NOP2/Sun domain family, member 2) as a tsRNAs-generating model. Mechanistically, the loss of NSun2 reduces methyluridine-U5 (m(5)U) and cytosine-C5 (m(5)C) of tRNAs, followed by the production of various tsRNAs, especially Class I tsRNAs (tRF-1s). Through further screening, we show that tRF-Gln-CTG-026 (tG026), the optimal tRF-1, ameliorates liver injury by repressing global protein synthesis through the weakened association between TSR1 (pre-rRNA-processing protein TSR1 homolog) and pre-40S ribosome. This study indicates the potential of tsRNA-reduced global protein synthesis in liver injury and repair, suggesting a potential therapeutic strategy for liver injury.
PXD038161	37015949	Indwelling stents cause severe inflammation and fibrosis of the ureter via urothelial-mesenchymal transition. 	Ureter proteomics analysis following stent placement and removal in a porcine model	TMT, lc-ms, porcine, stent, ureter	To explore the pathways and mechanisms driving inflammation and fibrosis in stented ureters. In total, six healthy female pigs underwent cystoscopic unilateral ureteral stent insertion (6 Fr). After 14 days indwelling time, ureteral tissue was harvested in three pigs, while the remaining three pigs had their stents removed, and were recovered for 7 days. Three separate pigs served as controls. Tissue from stented and contralateral ureters was analysed histologically to evaluate tissue remodelling and classify the degree of inflammation and fibrosis, while genome, proteome and immunohistochemistry analysis was performed to assess changes at the transcriptional and translational levels. Finally, immunofluorescence was used to characterize the cell composition of the immune response and pathways involved in inflammation and fibrosis. Statistical analysis was performed using GraphPad Prism and RStudio for Welch ANOVA, Kruskal-Wallis and Dunnett's T3 multiple comparison test. Stents cause significant inflammation and fibrosis of ureters. Gene set enrichment analysis confirmed fibrotic changes and tissue proliferation and suggests that epithelial-mesenchymal transition is a driver of fibrosis. Moreover, IL-6/JAK/STAT and TNFalpha via NF-kappaB signalling might contribute to chronic inflammation promoting a profibrotic environment. Immunostaining confirmed epithelial-mesenchymal transition in the urothelium and NF-kappaB expression in ureters stented for 14 days. Tissue alterations do not fully recover after 7 days. Histological evaluation showed that contralateral, unstented ureters are affected by mild inflammation. Our study showed that stenting has a significant impact on the ureter. Chronic inflammation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition are drivers of fibrosis, potentially impairing ureteral functionality in the long term. Furthermore, we observed mild inflammation in contralateral, unstented ureters.
PXD036814	37016377	FYN/TOPK/HSPB1 axis facilitates the proliferation and metastasis of gastric cancer. 	human gastric cancer cell AGS shTOPK LC-MSMS	AGS, shTOPK	BACKGROUND: FYN is a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase that regulates diverse pathological processes. The pro-cancer role of FYN in multiple malignancies has been elucidated. However, the mechanisms that FYN promotes gastric cancer (GC) progression remain largely unknown. METHODS: In vitro and in vivo assays were used to investigate the function of FYN. FYN, TOPK, p-TOPK expression in GC specimens were detected by immunohistochemistry. Phosphoproteomics assays identify TOPK downstream substrate molecules. The molecular mechanism was determined using COIP assays, pull-down assays, immunofluorescence co-localization assays, western blotting, (32)p-labeled isotope radioautography assays, vitro kinase assays, and TOPK knockout mice. RESULTS: FYN was found to be significantly upregulated in GC tissues as well as in GC cells. Knockdown of FYN expression markedly attenuated the malignant phenotype of GC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we identified TOPK/PBK as a novel downstream substrate of FYN, FYN directly phosphorylates TOPK at Y272. One phosphospecific antibodies against Y272 was developed to validate the phosphorylation of TOPK by FYN. Moreover, the TOPK-272F mutation impaired the interaction between TOPK and FYN, leading to disappeared TOPK phosphorylation. Consistently, human GC tissues displayed increased p-TOPK(Y272), which correlated with poor survival. Phosphoproteomics results showed a significant downregulation of both HSPB1 and p-HSPB1(ser15) in TOPK-knockdown cells, which was confirmed by TOPK-konckout mice. CONCLUSIONS: FYN directly binds to TOPK in GC cells and phosphorylates TOPK at the Y272, which leads to proliferation and metastasis of GC. FYN-TOPK axis facilitates GC progression by phosphorylating HSPB1. Collectively, our study elucidates the pivotal role of the FYN-TOPK-HSPB1 cascade in GC.
PXD040993	37018198	GINS4 suppresses ferroptosis by antagonizing p53 acetylation with Snail. 	GINS4 suppresses ferroptosis by antagonizing p53 acetylation  with Snail	GINS4 suppresses ferroptosis, acetylation, p53	Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent oxidative, nonapoptotic form of regulated cell death caused by the destruction of redox homeostasis. Recent studies have uncovered complex cellular networks that regulate ferroptosis. GINS4 is a promoter of eukaryotic G1/S-cell cycle as a regulator of initiation and elongation of DNA replication, but little is known about its impact on ferroptosis. Here, we found that GINS4 was involved in the regulation of ferroptosis in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). CRISPR/Cas9-mediated GINS4 KO facilitated ferroptosis. Interestingly, depletion of GINS4 could effectively induce G1, G1/S, S, and G2/M cells to ferroptosis, especially for G2/M cells. Mechanistically, GINS4 suppressed p53 stability through activating Snail that antagonized the acetylation of p53, and p53 lysine residue 351 (K351 for human p53) was the key site for GINS4-suppressed p53-mediated ferroptosis. Together, our data demonstrate that GINS4 is a potential oncogene in LUAD that functions to destabilize p53 and then inhibits ferroptosis, providing a potential therapeutic target for LUAD.
PXD037581	37019382	Integrative Proteomics and N-Glycoproteomics Analyses of Rheumatoid Arthritis Synovium Reveal Immune-Associated Glycopeptides. 	Integrative proteomics and precision N-glycoproteomics analyses of rheumatoid arthritis synovia reveal immune-associated glycopeptides	N-glycoproteomics, RA, synovia	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a typical autoimmune disease characterized by synovial inflammation, synovial tissue hyperplasia, and destruction of bone and cartilage. Protein glycosylation plays key roles in the pathogenesis of RA but in-depth glycoproteomics analysis of synovial tissues is still lacking. Here, by using a strategy to quantify intact N-glycopeptides, we identified 1260 intact N-glycopeptides from 481 N-glycosites on 334 glycoproteins in RA synovium. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the hyper-glycosylated proteins in RA were closely linked to immune responses. By using DNASTAR software, we identified 20 N-glycopeptides whose prototype peptides were highly immunogenic. We next calculated the enrichment scores of nine types of immune cells using specific gene sets from public single-cell transcriptomics data of RA and revealed that the N-glycosylation levels at some sites, such as IGSF10_N2147, MOXD2P_N404, and PTCH2_N812, were significantly correlated with the enrichment scores of certain immune cell types. Furthermore, we showed that aberrant N-glycosylation in the RA synovium was related to increased expression of glycosylation enzymes. Collectively, this work presents, for the first time, the N-glycoproteome of RA synovium and describes immune-associated glycosylation, providing novel insights into RA pathogenesis.
PXD041205	37019383	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals apoE4-Dependent Phosphorylation of the Actin-Regulating Protein VASP. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals apoE4-dependent phosphorylation of the actin regulating protein VASP	Alzheimers Disease, PPIs, phosphorylation, ubiquitylation	Apolipoprotein (apo) E4 is the major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. While neurons generally produce a minority of the apoE in the central nervous system, neuronal expression of apoE increases dramatically in response to stress and is sufficient to drive pathology. Currently, the molecular mechanisms of how apoE4 expression may regulate pathology are not fully understood. Here, we expand upon our previous studies measuring the impact of apoE4 on protein abundance to include the analysis of protein phosphorylation and ubiquitylation signaling in isogenic Neuro-2a cells expressing apoE3 or apoE4. ApoE4 expression resulted in a dramatic increase in vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) S235 phosphorylation in a protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent manner. This phosphorylation disrupted VASP interactions with numerous actin cytoskeletal and microtubular proteins. Reduction of VASP S235 phosphorylation via PKA inhibition resulted in a significant increase in filopodia formation and neurite outgrowth in apoE4-expressing cells, exceeding levels observed in apoE3-expressing cells. Our results highlight the pronounced and diverse impact of apoE4 on multiple modes of protein regulation and identify protein targets to restore apoE4-related cytoskeletal defects.
PXD034008	37019905	Structural mechanism of a drug-binding process involving a large conformational change of the protein target. 	Structural mechanism of a drug-binding process involving a large conformational change of the protein target	Abl kinase, HDX MS, Hydrogen exchange mass spectrometry, Molecular dynamics simulations, drug binding, imatinib resistance, localized unfolding	Proteins often undergo large conformational changes when binding small molecules, but atomic-level descriptions of such events have been elusive. Here, we report unguided molecular dynamics simulations of Abl kinase binding to the cancer drug imatinib. In the simulations, imatinib first selectively engages Abl kinase in its autoinhibitory conformation. Consistent with inferences drawn from previous experimental studies, imatinib then induces a large conformational change of the protein to reach a bound complex that closely resembles published crystal structures. Moreover, the simulations reveal a surprising local structural instability in the C-terminal lobe of Abl kinase during binding. The unstable region includes a number of residues that, when mutated, confer imatinib resistance by an unknown mechanism. Based on the simulations, NMR spectra, hydrogen-deuterium exchange measurements, and thermostability measurements and estimates, we suggest that these mutations confer imatinib resistance by exacerbating structural instability in the C-terminal lobe, rendering the imatinib-bound state energetically unfavorable.
PXD038492	37020023	De novo design of modular peptide-binding proteins by superhelical matching. 	LC-MSMS of Hela cell extracts on pull down with de novo modular peptide binding proteins	Hela, gelbands	General approaches for designing sequence-specific peptide-binding proteins would have wide utility in proteomics and synthetic biology. However, designing peptide-binding proteins is challenging, as most peptides do not have defined structures in isolation, and hydrogen bonds must be made to the buried polar groups in the peptide backbone(1-3). Here, inspired by natural and re-engineered protein-peptide systems(4-11), we set out to design proteins made out of repeating units that bind peptides with repeating sequences, with a one-to-one correspondence between the repeat units of the protein and those of the peptide. We use geometric hashing to identify protein backbones and peptide-docking arrangements that are compatible with bidentate hydrogen bonds between the side chains of the protein and the peptide backbone(12). The remainder of the protein sequence is then optimized for folding and peptide binding. We design repeat proteins to bind to six different tripeptide-repeat sequences in polyproline II conformations. The proteins are hyperstable and bind to four to six tandem repeats of their tripeptide targets with nanomolar to picomolar affinities in vitro and in living cells. Crystal structures reveal repeating interactions between protein and peptide interactions as designed, including ladders of hydrogen bonds from protein side chains to peptide backbones. By redesigning the binding interfaces of individual repeat units, specificity can be achieved for non-repeating peptide sequences and for disordered regions of native proteins.
PXD040724	37020951	Mitochondria hormesis delays aging and associated diseases in Caenorhabditis elegans impacting on key ferroptosis players. 	Mitochondria preconditioning delays aging and associated diseases in C. elegans impacting on key ferroptosis players	Aging, C. elegans, fatty acids, ferroptosis, frataxin, hypoxia, iron, mitochondria, neurodegeneration, oxidoreductase	Excessive iron accumulation or deficiency leads to a variety of pathologies in humans and developmental arrest in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Instead, sub-lethal iron depletion extends C. elegans lifespan. Hypoxia preconditioning protects against severe hypoxia-induced neuromuscular damage across species but it has low feasible application. In this study, we assessed the potential beneficial effects of genetic and chemical interventions acting via mild iron instead of oxygen depletion. We show that limiting iron availability in C. elegans through frataxin silencing or the iron chelator bipyridine, similar to hypoxia preconditioning, protects against hypoxia-, age-, and proteotoxicity-induced neuromuscular deficits. Mechanistically, our data suggest that the beneficial effects elicited by frataxin silencing are in part mediated by counteracting ferroptosis, a form of non-apoptotic cell death mediated by iron-induced lipid peroxidation. This is achieved by impacting on different key ferroptosis players and likely via gpx-independent redox systems. We thus point to ferroptosis inhibition as a novel potential strategy to promote healthy aging.
PXD033046	37020966	Biocatalytic potential of Pseudolycoriella CAZymes (Sciaroidea, Diptera) in degrading plant and fungal cell wall polysaccharides. 	Pseudolycoriella hygida saliva proteome	biomass, bradysia, diptera, glycosyl hydrolases, saliva	Soil biota has a crucial impact on soil ecology, global climate changes, and effective crop management and studying the diverse ecological roles of dipteran larvae deepens the understanding of soil food webs. A multi-omics study of Pseudolycoriella hygida comb. nov. (Diptera: Sciaroidea: Sciaridae) aimed to characterize carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) for litter degradation in this species. Manual curation of 17,881 predicted proteins in the Psl. hygida genome identified 137 secreted CAZymes, of which 33 are present in the saliva proteome, and broadly confirmed by saliva CAZyme catalytic profiling against plant cell wall polysaccharides and pNP-glycosyl substrates. Comparisons with two other sciarid species and the outgroup Lucilia cuprina (Diptera: Calliphoridae) identified 42 CAZyme families defining a sciarid CAZyme profile. The litter-degrading potential of sciarids corroborates their significant role as decomposers, yields insights to the evolution of insect feeding habits, and highlights the importance of insects as a source of biotechnologically relevant enzymes.
PXD039393	37022172	HtpG Is a Metal-Dependent Chaperone Which Assists the DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE Chaperone System of Mycobacterium tuberculosis via Direct Association with DnaJ2. 	Effect of deletion of htpG on global proteomic profile of M. tuberculosis H37Rv	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, htpG, iTRAQ	Protein folding is a crucial process in maintaining protein homeostasis, also known as proteostasis, in the cell. The requirement for the assistance of molecular chaperones in the appropriate folding of several proteins has already called into question the previously held view of spontaneous protein folding. These chaperones are highly ubiquitous cellular proteins, which not only help in mediating the proper folding of other nascent polypeptides but are also involved in refolding of the misfolded or the aggregated proteins. Hsp90 family proteins such as high-temperature protein G (HtpG) are abundant and ubiquitously expressed in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. Although HtpG is known as an ATP-dependent chaperone protein in most organisms, function of this protein remains obscured in mycobacterial pathogens. Here, we aim to investigate significance of HtpG as a chaperone in the physiology of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. We report that M. tuberculosis HtpG (mHtpG) is a metal-dependent ATPase which exhibits chaperonin activity towards denatured proteins in coordination with the DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE chaperone system via direct association with DnaJ2. Increased expression of DnaJ1, DnaJ2, ClpX, and ClpC1 in a DeltahtpG mutant strain further suggests cooperativity of mHtpG with various chaperones and proteostasis machinery in M. tuberculosis. IMPORTANCE M. tuberculosis is exposed to variety of extracellular stressful conditions and has evolved mechanisms to endure and adapt to the adverse conditions for survival. mHtpG, despite being dispensable for M. tuberculosis growth under in vitro conditions, exhibits a strong and direct association with DnaJ2 cochaperone and assists the mycobacterial DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE (KJE) chaperone system. These findings suggest the potential role of mHtpG in stress management of the pathogen. Mycobacterial chaperones are responsible for folding of nascent protein as well as reactivation of protein aggregates. M. tuberculosis shows differential adaptive response subject to the availability of mHtpG. While its presence facilitates improved protein refolding via stimulation of the KJE chaperone activity, in the absence of mHtpG, M. tuberculosis enhances expression of DnaJ1/J2 cochaperones as well as Clp protease machinery for maintenance of proteostasis. Overall, this study provides a framework for future investigation to better decipher the mycobacterial proteostasis network in the light of stress adaptability and/or survival.
PXD040904	37024075	Comparative physiological and proteomic response to phosphate deficiency between two wheat genotypes differing in phosphorus utilization efficiency. 	Proteomic data of wheat in response to Pi deficiency	wheat	Genetic variation in phosphorus utilization efficiency (PUE) widely exists among wheat genotypes. However, the underlying mechanisms are still unclear. Two contrasting wheat genotypes, Heng4399 (H4399) and Tanmai98 (TM98), were screened out from 17 bread wheat genotypes based on shoot soluble phosphate (Pi) concentrations. The TM98 had a significantly higher PUE than the H4399, especially under Pi deficiency. The induction of genes in the PHR1-centered Pi signaling pathway was significantly higher in TM98 than in H4399. Collectively, through a label-free quantitative proteomic analysis, 2110 high-confidence proteins were identified in shoots of the two wheat genotypes. Among them, 244 and 133 proteins were differentially accumulated under Pi deficiency in H4399 and TM98, respectively. The abundance of proteins related to nitrogen and phosphorus metabolic processes, small molecule metabolic process, and carboxylic acid metabolic process weas significantly affected by Pi deficiency in the shoots of the two genotypes. The abundance of proteins in energy metabolism, especially photosynthesis, was decreased by Pi deficiency in the shoots of H4399. Inversely, the PUE-efficient genotype TM98 could maintain protein abundance in energy metabolism. Moreover, the proteins involved in pyruvate metabolism, glutathione metabolism, and sulfolipid biosynthesis were significantly accumulated in TM98, which probably contributed to its high PUE. SIGNIFICANCE: Improving the PUE of wheat is urgent and crucial for sustainable agriculture. Genetic variation among wheat genotypes provides materials for exploring the underlying mechanisms for high PUE. This study selected two wheat genotypes with contrasting PUE to reveal the differences in the physiological and proteomic responses to phosphate deficiency. The PUE-efficiency genotype TM98 greatly induced the expression of genes in the PHR1-centered Pi signaling pathway. Subsequently, the TM98 could maintain the abundance of proteins related to energy metabolism and enhance the abundance of proteins involved in pyruvate metabolism, glutathione metabolism, and sulfolipid biosynthesis to increase PUE under Pi deficiency. The differentially expressed genes or proteins between the genotypes with contrasting PUE would provide potential and basis for breeding wheat varieties with improved phosphorus use efficiency.
PXD040867	37024090	Integrated Proteomics to Understand the Role of Neuritin (NRN1) as a Mediator of Cognitive Resilience to Alzheimer's Disease. 	Rat Cortical Primary Neuronal Culture with NRN1 Protein Treatment	NRN1, neuroproteomics, rat primary cortical neurons	The molecular mechanisms and pathways enabling certain individuals to remain cognitively normal despite high levels of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology remain incompletely understood. These cognitively normal people with AD pathology are described as preclinical or asymptomatic AD (AsymAD) and appear to exhibit cognitive resilience to the clinical manifestations of AD dementia. Here we present a comprehensive network-based approach from cases clinically and pathologically defined as asymptomatic AD to map resilience-associated pathways and extend mechanistic validation. Multiplex tandem mass tag MS (TMT-MS) proteomic data (n = 7787 proteins) was generated on brain tissue from Brodmann area 6 and Brodmann area 37 (n = 109 cases, n = 218 total samples) and evaluated by consensus weighted gene correlation network analysis. Notably, neuritin (NRN1), a neurotrophic factor previously linked to cognitive resilience, was identified as a hub protein in a module associated with synaptic biology. To validate the function of NRN1 with regard to the neurobiology of AD, we conducted microscopy and physiology experiments in a cellular model of AD. NRN1 provided dendritic spine resilience against amyloid-beta (Abeta) and blocked Abeta-induced neuronal hyperexcitability in cultured neurons. To better understand the molecular mechanisms of resilience to Abeta provided by NRN1, we assessed how exogenous NRN1 alters the proteome by TMT-MS (n = 8238 proteins) of cultured neurons and integrated the results with the AD brain network. This revealed overlapping synapse-related biology that linked NRN1-induced changes in cultured neurons with human pathways associated with cognitive resilience. Collectively, this highlights the utility of integrating the proteome from the human brain and model systems to advance our understanding of resilience-promoting mechanisms and prioritize therapeutic targets that mediate resilience to AD.
PXD039507	37024477	OTUB1 promotes osteoblastic bone formation through stabilizing FGFR2. 	Protein differential profiling of OTUB1 knockout osteoblasts	OTUB1 knockout, Protein differential profiling, osteoblasts	Bone homeostasis is maintained by the balance between osteoblastic bone formation and osteoclastic bone resorption. Dysregulation of this process leads to multiple diseases, including osteoporosis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, we show that the global and conditional osteoblast knockout of a deubiquitinase Otub1 result in low bone mass and poor bone strength due to defects in osteogenic differentiation and mineralization. Mechanistically, the stability of FGFR2, a crucial regulator of osteogenesis, is maintained by OTUB1. OTUB1 attenuates the E3 ligase SMURF1-mediated FGFR2 ubiquitination by inhibiting SMURF1's E2 binding. In the absence of OTUB1, FGFR2 is ubiquitinated excessively by SMURF1, followed by lysosomal degradation. Consistently, adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-delivered FGFR2 in knee joints rescued the bone mass loss in osteoblast-specific Otub1-deleted mice. Moreover, Otub1 mRNA level was significantly downregulated in bones from osteoporotic mice, and restoring OTUB1 levels through an AAV9-delivered system in ovariectomy-induced osteoporotic mice attenuated osteopenia. Taken together, our results suggest that OTUB1 positively regulates osteogenic differentiation and mineralization in bone homeostasis by controlling FGFR2 stability, which provides an optical therapeutic strategy to alleviate osteoporosis.
PXD037501	37024489	Signalling inhibition by ponatinib disrupts productive alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). 	Signalling Inhibition by Ponatinib Disrupts Productive Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres (ALT)	ALT, JUN, Telomeres, ponatinib, sarcoma	Alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) supports telomere maintenance in 10-15% of cancers, thus representing a compelling target for therapy. By performing anti-cancer compound library screen on isogenic cell lines and using extrachromosomal telomeric C-circles, as a bona fide marker of ALT activity, we identify a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor ponatinib that deregulates ALT mechanisms, induces telomeric dysfunction, reduced ALT-associated telomere synthesis, and targets, in vivo, ALT-positive cells. Using RNA-sequencing and quantitative phosphoproteomic analyses, combined with C-circle level assessment, we find an ABL1-JNK-JUN signalling circuit to be inhibited by ponatinib and to have a role in suppressing telomeric C-circles. Furthermore, transcriptome and interactome analyses suggest a role of JUN in DNA damage repair. These results are corroborated by synergistic drug interactions between ponatinib and either DNA synthesis or repair inhibitors, such as triciribine. Taken together, we describe here a signalling pathway impacting ALT which can be targeted by a clinically approved drug.
PXD040477	37024504	Targeting USP2 regulation of VPRBP-mediated degradation of p53 and PD-L1 for cancer therapy. 	Targeting USP2 regulation of VPRBP-mediated degradation of p53 and PD-L1 for cancer therapy	IRF1, Mdm2 and tumor suppressor, PD-1, PD-L1, USP2, USP2 inhibitors, VPRBP, p53	Since Mdm2 (Mouse double minute 2) inhibitors show serious toxicity in clinic studies, different approaches to achieve therapeutic reactivation of p53-mediated tumor suppression in cancers need to be explored. Here, we identify the USP2 (ubiquitin specific peptidase 2)-VPRBP (viral protein R binding protein) axis as an important pathway for p53 regulation. Like Mdm2, VPRBP is a potent repressor of p53 but VPRBP stability is controlled by USP2. Interestingly, the USP2-VPRBP axis also regulates PD-L1 (programmed death-ligand 1) expression. Strikingly, the combination of a small-molecule USP2 inhibitor and anti-PD1 monoclonal antibody leads to complete regression of the tumors expressing wild-type p53. In contrast to Mdm2, knockout of Usp2 in mice has no obvious effect in normal tissues. Moreover, no obvious toxicity is observed upon the USP2 inhibitor treatment in vivo as Mdm2-mediated regulation of p53 remains intact. Our study reveals a promising strategy for p53-based therapy by circumventing the toxicity issue.
PXD032155	37024507	Glucocerebrosidase is imported into mitochondria and preserves complex I integrity and energy metabolism. 	GBA1 interactome for understanding pathological mechanisms	GBA1, TMT LC-MS, inducible T-Rex HEK, interactome	Mutations in GBA1, the gene encoding the lysosomal enzyme beta-glucocerebrosidase (GCase), which cause Gaucher's disease, are the most frequent genetic risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we employ global proteomic and single-cell genomic approaches in stable cell lines as well as induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons and midbrain organoids to dissect the mechanisms underlying GCase-related neurodegeneration. We demonstrate that GCase can be imported from the cytosol into the mitochondria via recognition of internal mitochondrial targeting sequence-like signals. In mitochondria, GCase promotes the maintenance of mitochondrial complex I (CI) integrity and function. Furthermore, GCase interacts with the mitochondrial quality control proteins HSP60 and LONP1. Disease-associated mutations impair CI stability and function and enhance the interaction with the mitochondrial quality control machinery. These findings reveal a mitochondrial role of GCase and suggest that defective CI activity and energy metabolism may drive the pathogenesis of GCase-linked neurodegeneration.
PXD034087	37024568	Experimental strategies to improve drug-target identification in mass spectrometry-based thermal stability assays. 	Experimental strategies to improve drug-target identification in mass spectrometry-based thermal stability assays	CETSA, TPP, drug-protein interactions, target identification, thermal stability assays	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based thermal stability assays have recently emerged as one of the most promising solutions for the identification of protein-ligand interactions. Here, we have investigated eight combinations of several recently introduced MS-based advancements, including the Phase-Constrained Spectral Deconvolution Method, Field Asymmetric Ion Mobility Spectrometry, and the implementation of a carrier sample as improved MS-based acquisition approaches for thermal stability assays (iMAATSA). We used intact Jurkat cells treated with a commercially available MEK inhibitor, followed by heat treatment, to prepare a set of unfractionated isobarically-labeled proof-of-concept samples to compare the performance of eight different iMAATSAs. Finally, the best-performing iMAATSA was compared to a conventional approach and evaluated in a fractionation experiment. Improvements of up to 82% and 86% were demonstrated in protein identifications and high-quality melting curves, respectively, over the conventional approach in the proof-of-concept study, while an approximately 12% improvement in melting curve comparisons was achieved in the fractionation experiment.
PXD040999	37024778	Label-free quantitative proteomics reveals aberrant expression levels of LRG, C9, FN, A1AT and AGP1 in the plasma of patients with colorectal cancer. 	Label-free quantitative proteomics reveals aberrant expression levels of LRG, C9, FN, A1AT and AGP in the plasma of patients with colorectal cancer	Affinity chromatography, MARS-14, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), blood-based biomarkers, colorectal cancer, label-free quantitative proteomics	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the major causes of cancer-related death worldwide. Although commercial biomarkers of CRC are currently available, they are still lacking in terms of sensitivity and specificity; thus, searching for reliable blood-based biomarkers are important for the primary screening of CRC. METHODS: Plasma samples of patients with non-metastatic (NM) and metastatic (M) CRC and healthy controls were fractionated using MARS-14 immunoaffinity chromatography. The flow-through and elute fractions representing low- and high-abundant proteins, respectively, were analyzed by label-free quantitative proteomics mass spectrometry. The functional analysis of the proteins with greater than 1.5-fold differential expression level between the CRC and the healthy control groups were analyzed for their biological processes and molecular functions. In addition, the levels of plasma proteins showing large alterations in CRC patients were confirmed by immunoblotting using two independent cohorts. Moreover, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed for individual and combinations of biomarker candidates so as to evaluate the diagnostic performance of biomarker candidates. RESULTS: From 163 refined identifications, five proteins were up-regulated and two proteins were down-regulated in NM-CRC while eight proteins were up-regulated and three proteins were down-regulated in M-CRC, respectively. Altered plasma proteins in NM-CRC were mainly involved in complement activation, while those in M-CRC were clustered in acute-phase response, complement activation, and inflammatory response. Results from the study- and validation-cohorts indicate that the levels of leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein-1(LRG), complement component C9 (C9), alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (AGP1), and alpha-1-antitrypsin (A1AT) were statistically increased, while fibronectin (FN) level was statistically decreased in CRC patients compared to healthy controls, with most alterations found in a metastatic stage-dependent manner. ROC analysis revealed that FN exhibited the best diagnostic performance to discriminate CRC patients and healthy controls while AGP1 showed the best discrimination between the disease stages in both cohorts. The combined biomarker candidates, FN + A1AT + AGP1, exhibited perfect discriminatory power to discriminate between the CRC population and healthy controls whereas LRG + A1AT + AGP1 was likely to be the best panel to discriminate the metastatic stages in both cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified and quantified distinct plasma proteome profiles of CRC patients. Selected CRC biomarker candidates including FN, LRG, C9, A1AT, and AGP1 may be further applied for screening larger cohorts including disease groups from other types of cancer or other diseases.
PXD040503	37025615	Astaxanthin supplementation counters exercise-induced decreases in immune-related plasma proteins. 	Astaxanthin Supplementation Counters Exercise-Induced Decreases in Immune- Related Plasma Proteins	Astaxanthin, High-throughput plasma proteomics, sHTPP	Objectives: Astaxanthin is a dark red keto-carotenoid found in aquatic animals such as salmon and shrimp, and algae (Haematococcus pluvialis). Astaxanthin has a unique molecular structure that may facilitate anti-oxidative, immunomodulatory, and anti-inflammatory effects during physiological stress. The primary objective of this study was to examine the efficacy of 4-week ingestion of astaxanthin in moderating exercise-induced inflammation and immune dysfunction using a multi-omics approach. Methods: This study employed a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, crossover design with two 4-week supplementation periods and a 2-week washout period. Study participants were randomized to astaxanthin and placebo trials, with supplements ingested daily for 4 weeks prior to running 2.25 h at close to 70%VO2max (including 30 min of 10% downhill running). After the washout period, participants repeated all procedures using the counterbalanced supplement. The astaxanthin capsule contained 8 mg of algae astaxanthin. Six blood samples were collected before and after supplementation (overnight fasted state), immediately post-exercise, and at 1.5, 3, and 24 h-post-exercise. Plasma aliquots were assayed using untargeted proteomics, and targeted oxylipin and cytokine panels. Results: The 2.25 h running bout induced significant muscle soreness, muscle damage, and inflammation. Astaxanthin supplementation had no effect on exercise-induced muscle soreness, muscle damage, and increases in six plasma cytokines and 42 oxylipins. Notably, astaxanthin supplementation countered exercise-induced decreases in 82 plasma proteins (during 24 h recovery). Biological process analysis revealed that most of these proteins were involved in immune-related functions such as defense responses, complement activation, and humoral immune system responses. Twenty plasma immunoglobulins were identified that differed significantly between the astaxanthin and placebo trials. Plasma levels of IgM decreased significantly post-exercise but recovered after the 24 h post-exercise recovery period in the astaxanthin but not the placebo trial. Discussion: These data support that 4-week astaxanthin versus placebo supplementation did not counter exercise-induced increases in plasma cytokines and oxylipins but was linked to normalization of post-exercise plasma levels of numerous immune-related proteins including immunoglobulins within 24 h. Short-term astaxanthin supplementation (8 mg/day during a 4-week period) provided immune support for runners engaging in a vigorous 2.25 h running bout and uniquely countered decreases in plasma immunoglobulin levels.
PXD039098	37025640	iTRAQ-based proteomics analysis of Bacillus pumilus responses to acid stress and quorum sensing in a vitamin C fermentation system. 	iTRAQ-based proteomics analysis the cell-cell communication in the vitamin C microbial fermentation system	Bacilllus pumilus, Ketogulonicigenium vulgare, cell-cell communication, iTRAQ-based proteomics, vitamin C	Microbial consortia play a key role in human health, bioenergy, and food manufacturing due to their strong stability, robustness and versatility. One of the microbial consortia consisting of Ketogulonicigenium vulgare and Bacillus megaterium for the production of the vitamin C precursor, 2-keto-L-gulonic acid (2-KLG), has been widely used for large-scale industrial production. To further investigate the cell-cell communication in microbial consortia, a microbial consortium consisting of Ketogulonicigenium vulgare and Bacillus pumilus was constructed and the differences in protein expression at different fermentation time points (18 h and 40 h) were analyzed by iTRAQ-based proteomics. The results indicated that B. pumilus was subjected to acid shocks in the coculture fermentation system and responded to it. In addition, the quorum sensing system existed in the coculture fermentation system, and B. pumilus could secrete quorum-quenching lactonase (YtnP) to inhibit the signaling pathway of K. vulgare. This study offers valuable guidance for further studies of synthetic microbial consortia.
PXD032860	37026483	Characterization of the dual role of Plasmodium falciparum DNA methyltransferase in regulating transcription and translation. 	DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) associated proteins in human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum	DNA methyltransferase (DNMT), Plasmodium falciparum	DNA modifications are critical in fine-tuning the biological processes in model organisms. However, the presence of cytosine methylation (5mC) and the function of the putative DNA methyltransferase, PfDNMT2, in the human malaria pathogen, Plasmodium falciparum, remain controversial. Here, we revisited the 5mC in the parasite genome and the function of PfDNMT2. Low levels of genomic 5mC (0.1-0.2%) during asexual development were identified using a sensitive mass spectrometry procedure. Native PfDNMT2 displayed substantial DNA methylation activities, and disruption or overexpression of PfDNMT2 resulted in reduced or elevated genomic 5mC levels, respectively. PfDNMT2 disruption led to an increased proliferation phenotype, with the parasites having an extended schizont stage and producing a higher number of progenies. Consistent with PfDNMT2's interaction with an AP2 domain-containing transcription factor, transcriptomic analyses revealed that PfDNMT2 disruption led to a drastic alteration in the expression of many genes, some of which provided the molecular basis of enhanced proliferation after PfDNMT2 disruption. Furthermore, levels of tRNAAsp and its methylation rate at position C38, and the translation of a reporter containing an aspartate repeat were significantly reduced after PfDNMT2 disruption, while the levels of tRNAAsp and its C38 methylation were restored after complementation of PfDNMT2. Our study sheds new light on the dual function of PfDNMT2 during P. falciparum asexual development.
PXD039953	37026527	Establishment and characterization of a novel cancer stem-like cell of cholangiocarcinoma. 	Characterization of the cholangiocarcinoma stem cells by proteomics	cancer stem cells, cholangiocarcinoma, differentiation, parental cells	Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is an aggressive malignant tumor of bile duct epithelia. Recent evidence suggests the impact of cancer stem cells (CSC) on the therapeutic resistance of CCA; however, the knowledge of CSC in CCA is limited due to the lack of a CSC model. In this study, we successfully established a stable sphere-forming CCA stem-like cell, KKU-055-CSC, from the original CCA cell line, KKU-055. The KKU-055-CSC exhibits CSC characteristics, including: (1) the ability to grow stably and withstand continuous passage for a long period of culture in the stem cell medium, (2) high expression of stem cell markers, (3) low responsiveness to standard chemotherapy drugs, (4) multilineage differentiation, and (5) faster and constant expansive tumor formation in xenograft mouse models. To identify the CCA-CSC-associated pathway, we have undertaken a global proteomics and functional cluster/network analysis. Proteomics identified the 5925 proteins in total, and the significantly upregulated proteins in CSC compared with FCS-induced differentiated CSC and its parental cells were extracted. Network analysis revealed that high mobility group A1 (HMGA1) and Aurora A signaling through the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 pathways were enriched in KKU-055-CSC. Knockdown of HMGA1 in KKU-055-CSC suppressed the expression of stem cell markers, induced the differentiation followed by cell proliferation, and enhanced sensitivity to chemotherapy drugs including Aurora A inhibitors. In silico analysis indicated that the expression of HMGA1 was correlated with Aurora A expressions and poor survival of CCA patients. In conclusion, we have established a unique CCA stem-like cell model and identified the HMGA1-Aurora A signaling as an important pathway for CSC-CCA.
PXD040301	37027301	PPDPF suppresses the development of hepatocellular carcinoma through TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination of RIPK1. 	PPDPF suppresses the development of hepatocellular carcinoma through TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination of RIPK1	293T, LCMS, RIPK1, Ubiquitination	Pancreatic progenitor cell differentiation and proliferation factor (PPDPF) has been reported to play a role in tumorigenesis. However, its function in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. In this study, we report that PPDPF is significantly downregulated in HCC and the decreased PPDPF expression indicates poor prognosis. In the dimethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced HCC mouse model, hepatocyte-specific depletion of Ppdpf promotes hepatocarcinogenesis, and reintroduction of PPDPF into liver-specific Ppdpf knockout (LKO) mice inhibits the accelerated HCC development. Mechanistic study shows that PPDPF regulates nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) signaling through modulation of RIPK1 ubiquitination. PPDPF interacts with RIPK1 and facilitates K63-linked ubiquitination of RIPK1 via recruiting the E3 ligase TRIM21, which catalyzes K63-linked ubiquitination of RIPK1 at K140. In addition, liver-specific overexpression of PPDPF activates NF-kappaB signaling and attenuates apoptosis and compensatory proliferation in mice, which significantly suppresses HCC development. This work identifies PPDPF as a regulator of NF-kappaB signaling and provides a potential therapeutic candidate for HCC.
PXD037057	37027358	Comprehensive proteomic analysis of autophagosomes derived from Leishmania-infected macrophages. 	Comprehensive proteomic analysis of autophagosomes derived from Leishmania infected macrophages	Host-pathogen interactions, LCMSMS, Leishmania donovani, autophagosome, autophagy, parasitic infection	Recently, autophagy has been implicated as a host defense mechanism against intracellular pathogens. On the other hand, certain intracellular pathogens such as Leishmania can manipulate the host's autophagy to promote their survival. Our recent findings regarding the regulation of autophagy by Leishmania donovani indicate that this pathogen induces non-classical autophagy in infected macrophages, independent of regulation by the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1. This suggests the fine-tuning of autophagy to optimally promote parasite survival, possibly by the sequestration or modulation of specific autophagosome-associated proteins. To investigate how Leishmania potentially manipulates the composition of host-cell autophagosomes, we undertook a quantitative proteomic study of the human monocytic cell line THP-1 following infection with L. donovani. We used stable isotope labeling by amino acid in cell culture and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to compare expression profiles between autophagosomes isolated from THP-1 cells infected with L. donovani or treated with known autophagy inducers. Selected proteomic results were validated by Western blotting. In this study, we showed that L. donovani modulates the composition of macrophage autophagosomes during infection when compared to autophagosomes induced by either rapamycin (selective autophagy) or starvation (non-selective autophagy). Among 1787 proteins detected in Leishmania-induced autophagosomes, 146 were significantly modulated compared to the proteome of rapamycin-induced autophagosomes, while 57 were significantly modulated compared to starvation-induced autophagosomes. Strikingly, 23 Leishmania proteins were also detected in the proteome of Leishmania-induced autophagosomes. Together, our data provide the first comprehensive insight into the proteome dynamics of host autophagosomes in response to Leishmania infection and demonstrate the complex relations between the host and pathogen at the molecular level. A comprehensive analysis of the Leishmania-induced autophagosome proteome will be instrumental in the advancement of understanding leishmaniasis.
PXD038661	37028429	Systemwide disassembly and assembly of SCF ubiquitin ligase complexes. 	Systemwide disassembly and assembly of SCF ubiquitin ligase complexes	CAND1, CRL, E3, SCF, assembly, complex, formation, ligase, ubiquitin	Cells respond to environmental cues by remodeling their inventories of multiprotein complexes. Cellular repertoires of SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F box protein) ubiquitin ligase complexes, which mediate much protein degradation, require CAND1 to distribute the limiting CUL1 subunit across the family of ~70 different F box proteins. Yet, how a single factor coordinately assembles numerous distinct multiprotein complexes remains unknown. We obtained cryo-EM structures of CAND1-bound SCF complexes in multiple states and correlated mutational effects on structures, biochemistry, and cellular assays. The data suggest that CAND1 clasps idling catalytic domains of an inactive SCF, rolls around, and allosterically rocks and destabilizes the SCF. New SCF production proceeds in reverse, through SKP1-F box allosterically destabilizing CAND1. The CAND1-SCF conformational ensemble recycles CUL1 from inactive complexes, fueling mixing and matching of SCF parts for E3 activation in response to substrate availability. Our data reveal biogenesis of a predominant family of E3 ligases, and the molecular basis for systemwide multiprotein complex assembly.
PXD035382	37031178	Quantitative proteomics analysis in small cell carcinoma of cervix reveals novel therapeutic targets. 	Small cell carcinoma of cervix	DIA, small cell carcinoma of cervix	BACKGROUND: As a rare pathologic subtype, small cell carcinoma of the cervix (SCCC) is characterized by extensive aggressiveness and resistance to current therapies. To date, our knowledge of SCCC origin and progression is limited and sometimes even controversial. Herein, we explored the whole-protein expression profiles in a panel of SCCC cases, aiming to provide more evidence for the precise diagnosis and targeting therapy. METHODS: Eighteen SCCC samples and six matched normal cervix tissues were collected from January 2013 to December 2017. Data independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA) was performed to discriminate the different proteins (DEPs) associated with SCCC. The expression of CDN2A and SYP in corresponding SCCC tissues was verified using immunohistochemistry. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were used to identify the key DEPs related to SCCC development and tumor recurrence. RESULTS: As a result, 1311 DEPs were identified in SCCC tissues (780 up-regulated and 531 down-regulated). In up-regulated DEPs, both GO analysis and KEGG analysis showed the most enriched were related to DNA replication (including nuclear DNA replication, DNA-dependent DNA replication, and cell cycle DNA replication), indicating the prosperous proliferation in SCCC. As for the down-regulated DEPs, GO analysis showed that the most enriched functions were associated with extracellular matrix collagen-containing extracellular matrix. KEGG analysis revealed that the DEPs were enriched in Complement and coagulation cascades, proteoglycans in cancer, and focal adhesion-related pathways. Down-regulation of these proteins could enhance the mobility of cancer cells and establish a favorable microenvironment for tumor metastasis, which might be accounted for the frequent local and distant metastasis in SCCC. Surprisingly, the blood vessels and circulatory system exhibit a down-regulation in SCCC, which might be partly responsible for its resistance to anti-angiogenic regimens. In the stratification analysis of early-stage tumors, a group of enzymes involved in the cancer metabolism was discriminated in these recurrence cases. CONCLUSIONS: Using quantitative proteomics analysis, we first reported the whole-protein expression profiles in SCCC. Significant alterations were found in proteins associated with the enhancement of DNA replication and cellular motility. Besides the association with mitosis, a unique metabolic feature was detected in cases with tumor recurrence. These findings provided novel targets for disease surveillance and treatments, which warranted further validation in the future.
PXD037493	37031211	Conformational cycle of human polyamine transporter ATP13A2. 	Confirmation of the binding site of spermine to ATP13A2 protein	ATP13A2, CX-MS, SPM	Dysregulation of polyamine homeostasis strongly associates with human diseases. ATP13A2, which is mutated in juvenile-onset Parkinson's disease and autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia 78, is a transporter with a critical role in balancing the polyamine concentration between the lysosome and the cytosol. Here, to better understand human ATP13A2-mediated polyamine transport, we use single-particle cryo-electron microscopy to solve high-resolution structures of human ATP13A2 in six intermediate states, including the putative E2 structure for the P5 subfamily of the P-type ATPases. These structures comprise a nearly complete conformational cycle spanning the polyamine transport process and capture multiple substrate binding sites distributed along the transmembrane regions, suggesting a potential polyamine transport pathway. Integration of high-resolution structures, biochemical assays, and molecular dynamics simulations allows us to obtain a better understanding of the structural basis of how hATP13A2 transports polyamines, providing a mechanistic framework for ATP13A2-related diseases.
PXD038830	37031867	Deciphering the Clinical Significance and Kinase Functions of GSK3alpha in Colon Cancer by Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics. 	Deciphering the clinical significance and kinase functions of GSK3alpha in colon cancer by proteomics and phosphoproteomics	GSK3alpha, THRAP3, colon cancer, phosphoproteomics	GSK3alpha and GSK3beta are two GSK3 isoforms with 84% overall identity and 98% identity in their catalytic domains. GSK3beta plays important roles in the pathogenesis of cancer, while GSK3alpha has long been considered a functionally redundant protein of GSK3beta. Few studies have specifically investigated the functions of GSK3alpha. In this study, unexpectedly, we found that the expression of GSK3alpha, but not GSK3beta, was significantly correlated with the overall survival of colon cancer patients in 4 independent cohorts. To decipher the roles of GSK3alpha in colon cancer, we profiled the phosphorylation substrates of GSK3alpha and uncovered 156 phosphosites from 130 proteins specifically regulated by GSK3alpha. A number of these GSK3alpha-mediated phosphosites have never been reported before or have been incorrectly identified as substrates of GSK3beta. Among them, the levels of HSF1(S303p), CANX(S583p), MCM2(S41p), POGZ(S425p), SRRM2(T983p), and PRPF4B(S431p) were significantly correlated with the overall survival of colon cancer patients. Further pull-down assays identified 23 proteins, such as THRAP3, BCLAF1, and STAU1, showing strong binding affinity to GSK3alpha. The interaction between THRAP3 and GSK3alpha was verified by biochemical experiments. Notably, among the 18 phosphosites of THRAP3, phosphorylation at S248, S253, and S682 is specifically mediated by GSK3alpha. Mutation of S248 to D (S248D), which mimics the effect of phosphorylation, obviously increased cancer cell migration and the binding affinity to proteins related to DNA damage repair. Collectively, this work not only discloses the specific function of GSK3alpha as a kinase but also suggests GSK3alpha as a promising therapeutic target for colon cancer.
PXD033219	37033635	Quantitative proteomics reveals Polygonum perfoliatum L. ameliorates hepatic steatosis by promoting PPARs/CPT1A/CPT2-mediated fatty acid beta-oxidation. 	Polygonum perfoliatum L. ameliorates NAFLD by promoting PPARs/CPT1A/CPT2-mediated fatty acid beta-oxidation	NAFLD, Polygonum perfoliatum L, fatty acid beta oxidation, mitochondria	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a predominant contributor to end-stage liver disease in the forthcoming decades. Polygonum perfoliatum L. (PPL) is an herbal medicine with anti-lipid peroxidation and anti-inflammatory properties. However, detailed hepatoprotective effects of PPL against NAFLD and its underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, we found that PPL protects against high fat diet (HFD)-induced hepatic steatosis, lipid peroxidation, and glucose-lipid metabolism dysfunction in NAFLD mice. We therefore performed a label-free quantitative proteomic profiling analysis to determine the effect of PPL treatment on liver tissue proteomics and identified that activated PPARs/CPT1A/CPT2-mediated hepatic fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) process was significantly altered. In vitro treatment of hepatocytes with PPL confirmed this altered process and FAO inhibitor etomoxir (ETO) attenuated the lipid-lowering activity of PPL in hepatocytes. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography/Q Exactive-HFX (UPLC/QE-HFX) was used to determine the material basis of anti-NAFLD activity of PPL. Our results have demonstrated the efficacy and potential mechanisms of PPL as an effective pharmacological therapy of NAFLD.
PXD024939	37033658	Analysis of networks in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in chronic schizophrenia: Relevance of altered immune response. 	ANALYSIS OF NETWORKS IN THE DORSOLATERAL PREFRONTAL CORTEX IN CHRONIC SCHIZOPHRENIA: RELEVANCE OF ALTERED IMMUNE RESPONSE	Brain, Prefrontal cortex, Schizophrenia	The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) has a crucial role in cognitive functioning and negative symptoms in schizophrenia. However, limited information of altered protein networks is available in this region in schizophrenia. We performed a proteomic analysis using single-shot liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry of grey matter of postmortem DLPFC in chronic schizophrenia subjects (n = 20) and unaffected subjects (n = 20) followed by bioinformatic analysis to identify altered protein networks in schizophrenia (PXD024939 identifier in ProteomeXchange repository). Our results displayed a proteome profile in the DLPFC of 1989 proteins. 43 proteins were found significantly altered in schizophrenia. Analysis of this panel showed an enrichment of biological processes implicated in vesicle-mediated transport, processing and antigen presentation via MHC class II, intracellular transport and selenium metabolism. The enriched identified pathways were MHC class II antigen presentation, vesicle-mediated transport, Golgi ER retrograde transport, Nef mediated CD8 downregulation and the immune system. All these enriched categories were found to be downregulated. Furthermore, our network analyses showed crosstalk between proteins involved in MHC class II antigen presentation, membrane trafficking, Golgi-to-ER retrograde transport, Nef-mediated CD8 downregulation and the immune system with only one module built by 13 proteins. RAB7A showed eight interactions with proteins of all these pathways. Our results provide an altered molecular network involved in immune response in the DLPFC in schizophrenia with a central role of RAB7A. These results suggest that RAB7A or other proteins of this network could be potential targets for novel pharmacological strategies in schizophrenia for improving cognitive and negative symptoms.
PXD038567	37033809	Temporal Proteomic and Lipidomic Profiles of Cerulein-Induced Acute Pancreatitis Reveal Novel Insights for Metabolic Alterations in the Disease Pathogenesis. 	Temporal Proteomic and Lipidomic Profiles of Cerulein-Induced Acute Pancreatitis Reveals Novel Insights for Metabolic Alterations in the Disease Pathogenesis	acute pancreatitis, lipidomics, phosphoglycerides, time-course	The pathophysiological mechanisms of acute pancreatitis (AP) are complex and have remained a mystery to date, but metabolism is gradually recognized as an important driver of AP onset and development. We used a cerulein-induced AP mouse model to conduct liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based time-course proteomics and lipidomics in order to better understand the underlying metabolic alterations linked with AP. Results showed that a series of significant changes in proteins over time with a boost in expression were enriched in lipase activity, lipoprotein, and lipids absorption and transport regulation. Furthermore, 16 proteins associated with lipid metabolism and signaling pathways together with the whole lipid species changing profile led to the vital identification of changing law in glycerides, phosphoglycerides, and free fatty acids. In addition to lipid metabolism and regulation-associated proteins, several digestive enzymes and adaptive anti-trypsin, stress response, and energy metabolism-related proteins showed an increment in abundance. Notably, central carbon and branched chain amino acid metabolism were enhanced during 0-24 h from the first cerulein stimulation. Taken together, this integrated proteomics and lipidomics revealed a novel metabolic insight into metabolites transforming rules that might be relevant to their function and drug targets investigation. (Created with Biorender.com.).
PXD036064	37034998	Identification and analysis of short open reading frame-encoded peptides in different regions of mouse brain. 	Identification and analysis of short open reading frame encoded peptides in different brain regions of mice	Brain, Peptides, Short open reading frames, ncRNA	Short open reading frame-encoded peptides (SEPs) are generally 2-100 amino acids in length and participate in various biological processes of the organism. The brain is the central hub of life activities, where different regions perform distinct functions. To characterize SEPs in brain regions, we analyzed SEPs in five mouse brain areas, including hippocampus, frontal cortex, temporal cortex, occipital cortex, and parietal cortex, with mass spectrometry-based proteomics. We obtained 1,095 proteins with less than 100 amino acids and identified 373 SEPs. Approximately 83% of these SEPs are reported for the first time. Half of them are encoded by ncRNA, and nearly one-third can find orthology across species. Specific SEPs were identified in each brain region. For example, IP_1018875 was identified in the frontal cortex, possibly related to autophagy and neuronal signaling. These results enrich the proteome of the mouse brain and help facilitate subsequent studies on the function of SEPs.
PXD022774	37036437	Long non-coding RNA colon cancer-associated transcript 1-Vimentin axis promoting the migration and invasion of HeLa cells. 	Proteome-wide identification lncRNA CCAT1 directly binding proteins by RAP-MS	CCAT1, RAP-MS, Vimentin	BACKGROUND: Long non-coding RNA colon cancer-associated transcript 1 (CCAT1) is involved in transforming multiple cancers into malignant cancer types. Previous studies underlining the mechanisms of the functions of CCAT1 primarily focused on its decoy for miRNAs (micro RNAs). However, the regulatory mechanism of CCAT1-protein interaction associated with tumor metastasis is still largely unknown. The present study aimed to identify proteome-wide CCAT1 partners and explored the CCAT1-protein interaction mediated tumor metastasis. METHODS: CCAT1-proteins complexes were purified and identified using RNA antisense purification coupled with the mass spectrometry (RAP-MS) method. The database for annotation, visualization, and integrated discovery and database for eukaryotic RNA binding proteins (EuRBPDB) websites were used to bioinformatic analyzing CCAT1 binding proteins. RNA pull-down and RNA immunoprecipitation were used to validate CCAT1-Vimentin interaction. Transwell assay was used to evaluate the migration and invasion abilities of HeLa cells. RESULTS: RAP-MS method worked well by culturing cells with nucleoside analog 4-thiouridine, and cross-linking was performed using 365 nm wavelength ultraviolet. There were 631 proteins identified, out of which about 60% were RNA binding proteins recorded by the EuRBPDB database. Vimentin was one of the CCAT1 binding proteins and participated in the tumor metastasis pathway. Knocked down vimetin ( VIM ) and rescued the downregulation by overexpressing CCAT1 demonstrated that CCAT1 could enhance tumor migration and invasion abilities by stabilizing Vimentin protein. CONCLUSION: CCAT1 may bind with and stabilize Vimentin protein, thus enhancing cancer cell migration and invasion abilities.
PXD022455	37036634	Activation of Ca(2+) transport in cardiac microsomes enriches functional sets of ER and SR proteins. 	A function-based determination of the cardiac endoplasmic and sarcoplasmic reticulum proteome	SERCA, cardiac muscle, cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum, ryanodine receptor	The importance of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+)-handling in heart has led to detailed understanding of Ca(2+)-release and re-uptake protein complexes, while less is known about other endoplasmic reticulum (ER) functions in the heart. To more fully understand cardiac SR and ER functions, we analyzed cardiac microsomes based on their increased density through the actions of the SR Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) and the ryanodine receptor that are highly active in cardiomyocytes. Crude cardiac microsomal vesicles loaded with Ca oxalate produced two higher density subfractions, MedSR and HighSR. Proteins from 20.0 mug of MV, MedSR, and HighSR protein were fractionated using SDS-PAGE, then trypsinized from 20 separate gel pieces, and analyzed by LC-MS/MS to determine protein content. From 62,000 individual peptide spectra obtained, we identified 1105 different proteins, of which 354 were enriched >= 2.0-fold in SR fractions compared to the crude membrane preparation. Previously studied SR proteins were all enriched, as were proteins associated with canonical ER functions. Contractile, mitochondrial, and sarcolemmal proteins were not enriched. Comparing the levels of SERCA-positive SR proteins in MedSR versus HighSR vesicles produced a range of SR subfraction enrichments signifying differing levels of Ca(2+) leak co-localized in the same membrane patch. All known junctional SR proteins were more enriched in MedSR, while canonical ER proteins were more enriched in HighSR membrane. Proteins constituting other putative ER/SR subdomains also exhibited average Esub enrichment values (mean +/- S.D.) that spanned the range of possible Esub values, suggesting that functional sets of proteins are localized to the same areas of the ER/SR membrane. We conclude that active Ca(2+) loading of cardiac microsomes, reflecting the combined activities of Ca(2+) uptake by SERCA, and Ca(2+) leak by RyR, permits evaluation of multiple functional ER/SR subdomains. Sets of proteins from these subdomains exhibited similar enrichment patterns across membrane subfractions, reflecting the relative levels of SERCA and RyR present within individual patches of cardiac ER and SR.
PXD039557	37036810	Development of a Simple and Stable NanoESI Spray System Using Suction Wind from the MS Inlet. 	Proteome analysis by simple and stable nanoESI spray system	InSpIon, K562 cell, NanoESI, NanoLC	Improving the reproducibility of proteome analysis systems presents a challenge; therefore, in this study, we developed a new insertion spray ionization (InSpIon) system wherein an InSpIon tube was designed with a spray tip inserted into the tube. This system stabilized the spray and subsequently improved the reproducibility of the analysis.
PXD038876	37039115	Delineating regions of interest for mass spectrometry imaging by multimodally corroborated spatial segmentation. 	Delineating Regions-of-interest forMass Spectrometry Imaging byMultimodally Corroborated Spatial Segmentation	Mass spectrometry imaging, Multimodal data fusion, Spatial segmentation	Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI), which localizes molecules in a tag-free, spatially resolved manner, is a powerful tool for the understanding of underlying biochemical mechanisms of biological phenomena. When analyzing MSI data, it is essential to delineate regions of interest (ROIs) that correspond to tissue areas of different anatomical or pathological labels. Spatial segmentation, obtained by clustering MSI pixels according to their mass spectral similarities, is a popular approach to automate ROI definition. However, how to select the number of clusters (#Clusters), which determines the granularity of segmentation, remains to be resolved, and an inappropriate #Clusters may lead to ROIs not biologically real. Here we report a multimodal fusion strategy to enable an objective and trustworthy selection of #Clusters by utilizing additional information from corresponding histology images. A deep learning-based algorithm is proposed to extract "histomorphological feature spectra" across an entire hematoxylin and eosin image. Clustering is then similarly performed to produce histology segmentation. Since ROIs originating from instrumental noise or artifacts would not be reproduced cross-modally, the consistency between histology and MSI segmentation becomes an effective measure of the biological validity of the results. So, #Clusters that maximize the consistency is deemed as most probable. We validated our strategy on mouse kidney and renal tumor specimens by producing multimodally corroborated ROIs that agreed excellently with ground truths. Downstream analysis based on the said ROIs revealed lipid molecules highly specific to tissue anatomy or pathology. Our work will greatly facilitate MSI-mediated spatial lipidomics, metabolomics, and proteomics research by providing intelligent software to automatically and reliably generate ROIs.
PXD035608	37040356	Profiling of metabolites, proteins, and protein phosphorylation in silica-exposed BEAS-2B epithelial cells. 	Silica-exposed BEAS-2B epithelial cells	crystalline silica, epithelial cells	Silicosis is an uncurable occupational disease induced by crystalline silica. Increased prevalence of silicosis has resulted in the increased need for development of treatment options. Although macrophages respond first to silica, epithelial cells are also involved in silicosis. However, changes in protein and metabolite levels have not been reported simultaneously. We used mass spectrometry to profile changes in metabolites, proteins, and phosphorylation in silica-exposed BEAS-2B epithelial cells. Silica exposure increased TCA cycle, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, and aerobic glycolysis activity. In addition, protein levels in the endoplasmic reticulum were significantly altered, and phosphorylation of MAPK signaling proteins was increased. The results of this study increased understanding the role of epithelial cells in silicosis.
PXD040009	37040763	DT-109 ameliorates nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in nonhuman primates. 	Modulation of Microbial Bile Acid Metabolism by DT-109 Ameliorates Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis in Nonhuman Primates	Amino acids, Bile acids, Gut microbiota, Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, Nonhumann primates, Treatment	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) prevalence is rising with no pharmacotherapy approved. A major hurdle in NASH drug development is the poor translatability of preclinical studies to safe/effective clinical outcomes, and recent failures highlight a need to identify new targetable pathways. Dysregulated glycine metabolism has emerged as a causative factor and therapeutic target in NASH. Here, we report that the tripeptide DT-109 (Gly-Gly-Leu) dose-dependently attenuates steatohepatitis and fibrosis in mice. To enhance the probability of successful translation, we developed a nonhuman primate model that histologically and transcriptionally mimics human NASH. Applying a multiomics approach combining transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and metagenomics, we found that DT-109 reverses hepatic steatosis and prevents fibrosis progression in nonhuman primates, not only by stimulating fatty acid degradation and glutathione formation, as found in mice, but also by modulating microbial bile acid metabolism. Our studies describe a highly translatable NASH model and highlight the need for clinical evaluation of DT-109.
PXD039174	37040897	High-Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry: Practical Alternative for Cardiac Proteome Sample Processing. 	High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry- Mass Spectrometry to Enhance Cardiac Muscle Proteome Coverage	Cardiac, DIA-MS, FAIMS, IN-Seq	Heart tissue sample preparation for mass spectrometry (MS) analysis that includes prefractionation reduces the cellular protein dynamic range and increases the relative abundance of nonsarcomeric proteins. We previously described "IN-Sequence" (IN-Seq) where heart tissue lysate is sequentially partitioned into three subcellular fractions to increase the proteome coverage more than a single direct tissue analysis by mass spectrometry. Here, we report an adaptation of the high-field asymmetric ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) coupled to mass spectrometry, and the establishment of a simple one step sample preparation coupled with gas-phase fractionation. The FAIMS approach substantially reduces manual sample handling, significantly shortens the MS instrument processing time, and produces unique protein identification and quantification approximating the commonly used IN-Seq method in less time.
PXD036432	37041202	Proteomics reveals specific biological changes induced by the normothermic machine perfusion of donor kidneys with a significant up-regulation of Latexin. 	TISSUE AND URINARY PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS OF KIDNEYS UNDERGOING SHORT PERIOD OF NORMOTHERMIC MACHINE PERFUSION.	kidney, normothermic machine perfusion, urines	Renal normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) is an organ preservation method based on the circulation of a warm (35-37 degreesC) perfusion solution through the renal vasculature to deliver oxygen and nutrients. However, its biological effects on marginal kidneys are unclear. We therefore used mass spectrometry to determine the proteomic profile of kidney tissue and urine from eight organs reconditioned for 120 min using a Kidney Assist device. Biopsies were taken during the pre-implantation histological evaluation (T-1), at the start of back table preparation (T0), and after 60 and 120 min of perfusion (T60, T120). Urine samples were collected at T0 (urine produced in the first 15 min after the beginning of normothermic reperfusion), T30, T60 and T120. Multiple algorithms, support vector machine learning and partial least squares discriminant analysis were used to select the most discriminative proteins during NMP. Statistical analysis revealed the upregulation of 169 proteins and the downregulation of 196 during NMP. Machine learning algorithms identified the top 50 most discriminative proteins, five of which were concomitantly upregulated (LXN, ETFB, NUDT3, CYCS and UQCRC1) and six downregulated (CFHR3, C1S, CFI, KNG1, SERPINC1 and F9) in the kidney and urine after NMP. Latexin (LXN), an endogenous carboxypeptidase inhibitor, resulted the most-upregulated protein at T120, and this result was confirmed by ELISA. In addition, functional analysis revealed that the most strongly upregulated proteins were involved in the oxidative phosphorylation system and ATP synthesis, whereas the downregulated proteins represented the complement system and coagulation cascade. Our proteomic analysis demonstrated that even brief periods of NMP induce remarkable metabolic and biochemical changes in marginal organs, which supports the use of this promising technique in the clinic.
PXD041070	37041208	A bacterial autotransporter impairs innate immune responses by targeting the transcription factor TFE3. 	A bacterial autotransporter impairs innate immune responses by targeting the transcription factor TFE3	TFE3, autotransporter, escherichia coli, immune response, transcription factor	Type I interferons (IFNs) are consequential cytokines in antibacterial defense. Whether and how bacterial pathogens inhibit innate immune receptor-driven type I IFN expression remains mostly unknown. By screening a library of enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) mutants, we uncovered EhaF, an uncharacterized protein, as an inhibitor of innate immune responses including IFNs. Further analyses identified EhaF as a secreted autotransporter-a type of bacterial secretion system with no known innate immune-modulatory function-that translocates into host cell cytosol and inhibit IFN response to EHEC. Mechanistically, EhaF interacts with and inhibits the MiT/TFE family transcription factor TFE3 resulting in impaired TANK phosphorylation and consequently, reduced IRF3 activation and type I IFN expression. Notably, EhaF-mediated innate immune suppression promotes EHEC colonization and pathogenesis in vivo. Overall, this study has uncovered a previously unknown autotransporter-based bacterial strategy that targets a specific transcription factor to subvert innate host defense.
PXD029743	37043564	Targeting BRD3 eradicates nuclear TYRO3-induced colorectal cancer metastasis. 	To identify the nuclear partner(s) of TYRO3 in colon cells using LC-Quadrupole Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry.	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Colon, Human Proteome Project, LC-Quadrupole Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), TYRO3	Metastasis is the main cause of death in many cancers including colorectal cancer (CRC); however, the underlying mechanisms responsible for metastatic progression remain largely unknown. We found that nuclear TYRO3 receptor tyrosine kinase is a strong predictor of poor overall survival in patients with CRC. The metastasis-promoting function of nuclear TYRO3 requires its kinase activity and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2)-mediated cleavage but is independent of ligand binding. Using proteomic analysis, we identified bromodomain-containing protein 3 (BRD3), an acetyl-lysine reading epigenetic regulator, as one of nuclear TYRO3's substrates. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing data reveal that TYRO3-phosphorylated BRD3 regulates genes involved in anti-apoptosis and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Inhibition of MMP-2 or BRD3 activity by selective inhibitors abrogates nuclear TYRO3-induced drug resistance and metastasis in organoid culture and in orthotopic mouse models. These data demonstrate that MMP-2/TYRO3/BRD3 axis promotes the metastasis of CRC, and blocking this signaling cascade is a promising approach to ameliorate CRC malignancy.
PXD040559	37045865	Glucose depletion enables Candida albicans mating independently of the epigenetic white-opaque switch. 	Glucose depletion enables Candida albicans mating independent of the epigenetic white-opaque switch	Candida albicans, Cph1, MAPK pathway, Tec1, mating projection, phenotypic switching, sexual reproduction	The human fungal pathogen Candida albicans can switch stochastically and heritably between a "white" phase and an "opaque" phase. Opaque cells are the mating-competent form of the species, whereas white cells are thought to be essentially "sterile". Here, we report that glucose depletion, a common nutrient stress, enables C. albicans white cells to undergo efficient sexual mating. The relative expression levels of pheromone-sensing and mating-associated genes (including STE2/3, MFA1, MFalpha1, FIG1, FUS1, and CEK1/2) are increased under glucose depletion conditions, while expression of mating repressors TEC1 and DIG1 is decreased. Cph1 and Tec1, factors that act downstream of the pheromone MAPK pathway, play opposite roles in regulating white cell mating as TEC1 deletion or CPH1 overexpression promotes white cell mating. Moreover, inactivation of the Cph1 repressor Dig1 increases white cell mating ~4000 fold in glucose-depleted medium relative to that in the presence of glucose. Our findings reveal that the white-to-opaque epigenetic switch may not be a prerequisite for sexual mating in C. albicans in nature.
PXD029085	37045932	Comparative- and network-based proteomic analysis of bacterial chondronecrosis with osteomyelitis lesions in broiler's proximal tibiae identifies new molecular signatures of lameness. 	Proteomics Analysis of Bacterial Chondronecrosis with Osteomyelitis in Broiler Chickens	BCO, FHN	Bacterial Chondronecrosis with Osteomyelitis (BCO) is a specific cause of lameness in commercial fast-growing broiler (meat-type) chickens and represents significant economic, health, and wellbeing burdens. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis remain poorly understood. This study represents the first comprehensive characterization of the proximal tibia proteome from healthy and BCO chickens. Among a total of 547 proteins identified, 222 were differentially expressed (DE) with 158 up- and 64 down-regulated proteins in tibia of BCO vs. normal chickens. Biological function analysis using Ingenuity Pathways showed that the DE proteins were associated with a variety of diseases including cell death, organismal injury, skeletal and muscular disorder, immunological and inflammatory diseases. Canonical pathway and protein-protein interaction network analysis indicated that these DE proteins were involved in stress response, unfolded protein response, ribosomal protein dysfunction, and actin cytoskeleton signaling. Further, we identified proteins involved in bone resorption (osteoclast-stimulating factor 1, OSFT1) and bone structural integrity (collagen alpha-2 (I) chain, COL2A1), as potential key proteins involved in bone attrition. These results provide new insights by identifying key protein candidates involved in BCO and will have significant impact in understanding BCO pathogenesis.
PXD039607	37046327	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles from tick hemolymph and uptake of extracellular vesicles by salivary glands and ovary cells. 	Proteomics of vesicles derived from salivary glands of tick	EVs, Haemaphysalis, salivary glands, tick	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are a heterogeneous group of cell-derived membranous structures that are important mediators of intercellular communication. Arthropods transport nutrients, signaling molecules, waste and immune factors to all areas of the body via the hemolymph. Little is known about tick hemolymph EVs. METHODS: Hemolymph was collected from partially fed Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides and Hyalomma asiaticum ticks by making an incision with a sterile scalpel in the middle (between the femur and metatarsus) of the first pair of legs, which is known as leg amputation. EVs were isolated from hemolymph by differential centrifugation and characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA). Proteins extracted from the hemolymph EVs were analyzed by 4D label-free proteomics. The EVs were also examined by western blot and immuno-electron microscopy analysis. Intracellular incorporation of PHK26-labeled EVs was tested by adding labeled EVs to tick salivary glands and ovaries, followed by fluorescence microscopy. RESULTS: In this study, 149 and 273 proteins were identified by 4D label-free proteomics in R. haemaphysaloides and H. asiaticum hemolymph EVs, respectively. TEM and NTA revealed that the sizes of the hemolymph EVs from R. haemaphysaloides and H. asiaticum were 133 and 138 nm, respectively. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology enrichment analyses of identified proteins revealed pathways related to binding, catalytic and transporter activity, translation, transport and catabolism, signal transduction and cellular community. The key EV marker proteins RhCD9, RhTSG101, Rh14-3-3 and RhGAPDH were identified using proteomics and western blot. The presence of RhFerritin-2 in tick hemolymph EVs was confirmed by western blot and immuno-electron microscopy. We demonstrated that PKH26-labeled hemolymph EVs are internalized by tick salivary glands and ovary cells in vitro. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that tick EVs are secreted into, and circulated by, the hemolymph. EVs may play roles in the regulation of tick development, metabolism and reproduction.
PXD033785	37046833	Label-Free Quantification Mass Spectrometry Identifies Protein Markers of Chemotherapy Response in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer. 	Label Free Quantification Mass Spectrometry Identifies Protein Markers of Chemoresistance in Serous Ovarian Cancer	chemoresistance, mass-spectrometry, ovarian cancer	Eighty percent of ovarian cancer patients initially respond to chemotherapy, but the majority eventually experience a relapse and die from the disease with acquired chemoresistance. In addition, 20% of patients do not respond to treatment at all, as their disease is intrinsically chemotherapy resistant. Data-independent acquisition nano-flow liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (DIA LC-MS) identified the three protein markers: gelsolin (GSN), calmodulin (CALM1), and thioredoxin (TXN), to be elevated in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) tissues from patients that responded to chemotherapy compared to those who did not; the differential expression of the three protein markers was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Analysis of the online GENT2 database showed that mRNA levels of GSN, CALM1, and TXN were decreased in HGSOC compared to fallopian tube epithelium. Elevated levels of GSN and TXN mRNA expression correlated with increased overall and progression-free survival, respectively, in a Kaplan-Meier analysis of a large online repository of HGSOC patient data. Importantly, differential expression of the three protein markers was further confirmed when comparing parental OVCAR-5 cells to carboplatin-resistant OVCAR-5 cells using DIA LC-MS analysis. Our findings suggest that GSN, CALM1, and TXN may be useful biomarkers for predicting chemotherapy response and understanding the mechanisms of chemotherapy resistance. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033785.
PXD040365	37047061	Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis Revealed That Hormone and Reactive Oxygen Species Synergetically Regulate Dormancy of Introgression Line in Rice (Oryza sativa L.). 	Comparison of seed proteome of weak dormant rice variety Zhonghua11 and strong dormant rice LL at the beginning of harvest	dormancy, rice	Dormancy is a complex agronomy phenotype controlled by multiple signaling and a key trait repressing pre-harvest sprouting (PHS). However, the signaling network of dormancy remains unclear. In this study, we used Zhonghua11 (ZH11) with a weak dormancy, and Introgression line (IL) with a strong dormancy to study the mechanism of hormones and reactive oxygen species (ROS) crosstalk regulating rice dormancy. The germination experiment showed that the germination rate of ZH11 was 76.86%, while that of IL was only 1.25%. Transcriptome analysis showed that there were 1658 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between IL and ZH11, of which 577 were up-regulated and 1081 were down-regulated. Additionally, DEGs were mainly enriched in oxidoreductase activity, cell periphery, and plant hormone signal transduction pathways. Tandem mass tags (TMT) quantitative proteomics analysis showed 275 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between IL and ZH11, of which 176 proteins were up-regulated, 99 were down-regulated, and the DEPs were mainly enriched in the metabolic process and oxidation-reduction process. The comprehensive transcriptome and proteome analysis showed that their correlation was very low, and only 56 genes were co-expressed. Hormone content detection showed that IL had significantly lower abscisic acid (ABA) contents than the ZH11 while having significantly higher jasmonic acid (JA) contents than the ZH11. ROS content measurement showed that the hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) content of IL was significantly lower than the ZH11, while the production rate of superoxide anion (O2(.-)) was significantly higher than the ZH11. These results indicate that hormones and ROS crosstalk to regulate rice dormancy. In particular, this study has deepened our mechanism of ROS and JA crosstalk regulating rice dormancy and is conducive to our precise inhibition of PHS.
PXD041174	37047404	Smooth Muscle Cell Phenotypic Switch Induced by Traditional Cigarette Smoke Condensate: A Holistic Overview. 	Smooth Muscle Cell Phenotypic Switch Induced by Cigarette Smoke Condensate	Atherosclerosis, cigarette smoke, electronic cigarette, phenotypic switch, smooth muscle cells	Cigarette smoke (CS) is a risk factor for inflammatory diseases, such as atherosclerosis. CS condensate (CSC) contains lipophilic components that may represent a systemic cardiac risk factor. To better understand CSC effects, we incubated mouse and human aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs) with CSC. We evaluated specific markers for contractile [i.e., actin, aortic smooth muscle (ACTA2), calponin-1 (CNN1), the Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), and myocardin (MYOCD) genes] and inflammatory [i.e., IL-1beta, and IL-6, IL-8, and galectin-3 (LGALS-3) genes] phenotypes. CSC increased the expression of inflammatory markers and reduced the contractile ones in both cell types, with KLF4 modulating the SMC phenotypic switch. Next, we performed a mass spectrometry-based differential proteomic approach on human SMCs and could show 11 proteins were significantly affected by exposition to CSC (FC >= 2.7, p <= 0.05). These proteins are active in signaling pathways related to expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and IFN, inflammasome assembly and activation, cytoskeleton regulation and SMC contraction, mitochondrial integrity and cellular response to oxidative stress, proteostasis control via ubiquitination, and cell proliferation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Through specific bioinformatics resources, we showed their tight functional correlation in a close interaction niche mainly orchestrated by the interferon-induced double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase (alternative name: protein kinase RNA-activated; PKR) (EIF2AK2/PKR). Finally, by combining gene expression and protein abundance data we obtained a hybrid network showing reciprocal integration of the CSC-deregulated factors and indicating KLF4 and PKR as the most relevant factors.
PXD034188	37047500	Physiological and Functional Effects of Dominant Active TCRalpha Expression in Transgenic Mice. 	Proteome analysis of transgenic 1D1a mice	blood plasma, transgenic 1D1a mice	A T cell receptor (TCR) consists of alpha- and beta-chains. Accumulating evidence suggests that some TCRs possess chain centricity, i.e., either of the hemi-chains can dominate in antigen recognition and dictate the TCR's specificity. The introduction of TCRalpha/beta into naive lymphocytes generates antigen-specific T cells that are ready to perform their functions. Transgenesis of the dominant active TCRalpha creates transgenic animals with improved anti-tumor immune control, and adoptive immunotherapy with TCRalpha-transduced T cells provides resistance to infections. However, the potential detrimental effects of the dominant hemi-chain TCR's expression in transgenic animals have not been well investigated. Here, we analyzed, in detail, the functional status of the immune system of recently generated 1D1a transgenic mice expressing the dominant active TCRalpha specific to the H2-K(b) molecule. In their age dynamics, neither autoimmunity due to the random pairing of transgenic TCRalpha with endogenous TCRbeta variants nor significant disturbances in systemic homeostasis were detected in these mice. Although the specific immune response was considerably enhanced in 1D1a mice, responses to third-party alloantigens were not compromised, indicating that the expression of dominant active TCRalpha did not limit immune reactivity in transgenic mice. Our data suggest that TCRalpha transgene expression could delay thymic involution and maintain TCRbeta repertoire diversity in old transgenic mice. The detected changes in the systemic homeostasis in 1D1a transgenic mice, which are minor and primarily transient, may indicate variations in the ontogeny of wild-type and transgenic mouse lines.
PXD039876	37047836	Redox Proteomic Profile of Tirapazamine-Resistant Murine Hepatoma Cells. 	Preparation of tirapazamine-resistant hepatoma cell line	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Tirapazamine, hepatoma, resistance	3-Amino-1,2,4-benzotriazine-1,4-dioxide (tirapazamine, TPZ) and other heteroaromatic N-oxides (ArN-->O) exhibit tumoricidal, antibacterial, and antiprotozoal activities. Their action is attributed to the enzymatic single-electron reduction to free radicals that initiate the prooxidant processes. In order to clarify the mechanisms of aerobic mammalian cytotoxicity of ArN-->O, we derived a TPZ-resistant subline of murine hepatoma MH22a cells (resistance index, 5.64). The quantitative proteomic of wild-type and TPZ-resistant cells revealed 5818 proteins, of which 237 were up- and 184 down-regulated. The expression of the antioxidant enzymes aldehyde- and alcohol dehydrogenases, carbonyl reductases, catalase, and glutathione reductase was increased 1.6-5.2 times, whereas the changes in the expression of glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, thioredoxin reductase, and peroxiredoxins were less pronounced. The expression of xenobiotics conjugating glutathione-S-transferases was increased by 1.6-2.6 times. On the other hand, the expression of NADPH:cytochrome P450 reductase was responsible for the single-electron reduction in TPZ and for the 2.1-fold decrease. These data support the fact that the main mechanism of action of TPZ under aerobic conditions is oxidative stress. The unchanged expression of intranuclear antioxidant proteins peroxiredoxin, glutaredoxin, and glutathione peroxidase, and a modest increase in the expression of DNA damage repair proteins, tend to support non-site-specific but not intranuclear oxidative stress as a main factor of TPZ aerobic cytotoxicity.
PXD031601	37048128	Novel Components of the Stress Assembly Sec Body Identified by Proximity Labeling. 	APEX2 labeling of Sec bodies in S2 cells	APEX2, Proximity labeling, Sec bodies, biotinylation, granules	Sec bodies are membraneless stress-induced assemblies that form by the coalescence of endoplasmic reticulum exit sites (ERES). Through APEX2 tagging of Sec24AB, we biotinylated and identified the full complement of Sec body proteins. In the presence of biotin-phenol and H2O2 (APEX on), APEX2 facilitates the transfer of a biotin moiety to nearby interactors of chimeric Sec24AB. Using this unbiased approach comparing APEX on and off (-H2O2) conditions, we identified 52 proteins specifically enriched in Sec bodies. These include a large proportion of ER and Golgi proteins, packaged without defined stoichiometry, which we could selectively verify by imaging. Interestingly, Sec body components are neither transcriptionally nor translationally regulated under the conditions that induce Sec body formation, suggesting that incorporation of these proteins into granules may be driven instead by the aggregation of nucleating proteins with a high content of intrinsically disordered regions. This reinforces the notion that Sec bodies may act as storage for ERES, ER and Golgi components during stress.
PXD036787	37048138	Prolonged Subculturing of Aspergillus fumigatus on Galleria Extract Agar Results in Altered Virulence and Sensitivity to Antifungal Agents. 	Serial passaging of Aspergillus fumigatus on Galleria extract agar produces strains with altered response of oxidative stress	Aspergillus, Galleria, Immunity, Infection, Mini-model, Passaging, Virulence	Aspergillus fumigatus is an environmental saprophyte and opportunistic fungal pathogen of humans. The aim of the work presented here was to examine the effect of serially subculturing A. fumigatus on agar generated from Galleria mellonella larvae in order to characterize the alterations in the phenotypes that might occur. The passaged strains showed alterations in virulence, antifungal susceptibility, and in protein abundances that may indicate adaptation after 25 passages over 231 days on Galleria extract agar. Passaged strains demonstrated reduced virulence in G. mellonella larvae and increased tolerance to hemocyte-mediated killing, hydrogen peroxide, itraconazole, and amphotericin B. A label-free proteomic analysis of control and passaged A. fumigatus strains revealed a total of 3329 proteins, of which 1902 remained following filtration, and 32 proteins were statistically significant as well as differentially abundant. Proteins involved in the response to oxidative stress were altered in abundance in the passaged strain and included (S)-S-oxide reductase (+2.63-fold), developmental regulator FlbA (+2.27-fold), and histone H2A.Z (-1.82-fold). These results indicate that the prolonged subculturing of A. fumigatus on Galleria extract agar results in alterations in the susceptibility to antifungal agents and in the abundance of proteins associated with the oxidative stress response. The phenomenon may be a result of selection for survival in adverse conditions and highlight how A. fumigatus may adapt to tolerate the pulmonary immune response in cases of human infection.
PXD043039	37050850	Comparative proteomic analysis identifies differentially expressed proteins associated with meiotic arrest in cattle-yak hybrids. 	Comparative proteomic analysis identifies differentially expressed proteins associated with meiotic arrest in cattle-yak hybrids	Protein profile, spermatocytes of cattle-yak	Cattle-yak, the interspecific hybrid between yak and taurine cattle, exhibits male-specific sterility. Massive loss of spermatogenic cells, especially spermatocytes, results in azoospermia in these animals. Currently, the mechanisms underlying meiosis block and defects in spermatocyte development remain elusive. The present study was designed to investigate the differences in the protein composition of spermatocytes isolated from 12-month-old yak and cattle-yak testes. Histological analysis confirmed that spermatocytes were the most advanced germ cells in the testes of yak and cattle-yak at this developmental stage. Comparative proteomic analysis identified a total of 452 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in the fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) isolated spermatocytes from cattle-yak and yak. A total of 291 proteins were only present in yak spermatocytes. Gene Ontology analysis revealed that the downregulated DAPs were mostly enriched in the cellular response to DNA damage stimulus and double-strand breaks (DSBs) repair via break-induced replication, while the proteins specific for yak were related to cell division and cycle, spermatogenesis, and negative regulation of the extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway. Ultimately, these DAPs were related to the critical process for spermatocyte meiotic events, including DSBs, homologous recombination, synapsis, crossover formation, and germ cell apoptosis. The database composed of proteins associated with spermatogenesis, including KPNA2, HTATSF1, TRIP12, STIP1, LZTFL1, LARP7, MTCH2, STK31, ROMO1, CDK5AP2, DNMT1, RBM44, and CHRAC1, is the focus of further research on male hybrid sterility. In total, these results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying failed meiotic processes and male infertility in cattle-yak.
PXD040701	37051693	SLC25A22 as a Key Mitochondrial Transporter Against Ferroptosis by Producing Glutathione and Monounsaturated Fatty Acids. 	Metabolomics and lipidomic analysis of SLC25A22 knockdown PANC1 cells	SLC25A22, metabolomics	Aims: Ferroptosis, a type of oxidative cell death driven by unlimited lipid peroxidation, is emerging as a target for cancer therapy. Although mitochondrial dysfunction may lead to ferroptosis, the underlying molecular mechanisms and metabolic pathways for ferroptosis are incompletely understood. Here, we identify solute carrier family 25 member 22 (SLC25A22), a mitochondrial glutamate transporter, as a driver of ferroptosis resistance in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells. Results: The downregulation of SLC25A22 expression was associated with increased sensitivity to ferroptosis, but not to apoptosis. Mechanistically, on the one hand, SLC25A22-dependent NAPDH synthesis blocks ferroptotic cell death in PDAC cells through mediating the production of glutathione (GSH), the most important hydrophilic antioxidant. On the other hand, SLC25A22 promotes the expression of stearoyl-CoA desaturase in PDAC cells in an AMP-activated protein kinase-dependent manner, resulting in the production of antiferroptotic monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs). The animal study further confirms that SLC25A22 inhibits ferroptosis-mediated tumor suppression. Innovation: SLC25A22 is a novel metabolic repressor of ferroptosis by producing GSH and MUFAs. Conclusion: These findings establish a previously unrecognized metabolic defense pathway to limit ferroptotic cell death in vitro and in vivo. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 39, 166-185.
PXD036960	37052527	In-depth proteomic analysis of juvenile dermatomyositis serum reveals protein expression associated with muscle-specific autoantibodies. 	In-depth data independent acquisition-mass spectrometry proteomic analysis of juvenile dermatomyositis serum samples reveals protein expression changes associated with muscle-specific autoantibodies	DIA-MS/MS, JDM, MSA, profiling, serum	OBJECTIVES: The clinical symptoms and complications of JDM differ depending on the type of muscle-specific autoantibodies (MSAs) present. We aimed to identify protein expression profiles specific for MSAs that characterize various clinical features by comprehensively analyzing the proteins present in the serum of patients with JDM. METHODS: We analysed sera from patients with JDM that were positive for anti-melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5 (MDA5) antibodies (n = 5), anti-nuclear matrix protein 2 (NXP2) antibodies (n = 5) and anti-transcriptional intermediary factor 1 alpha or gamma subunit (TIF1-gamma) antibodies (n = 5), and evaluated healthy controls (n = 5) via single-shot liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (MS) in data-independent acquisition mode, which is superior for comparative quantitative analysis. We identified different protein groups based on MSAs and performed pathway analysis to understand their characteristics. RESULTS: We detected 2413 proteins from serum MS analysis; 508 proteins were commonly altered in MSAs, including many myogenic enzymes and IFN-regulated proteins. Pathway analysis using the top 50 proteins that were upregulated in each MSA group revealed that the type I IFN and proteasome pathways were significantly upregulated in the anti-MDA5 antibody group alone. CONCLUSION: Although JDM serum contains many proteins commonly altered in MSAs, the pathways associated with clinical features of MSAs differ based on protein accumulation. In-depth serum protein profiles associated with MSAs may be useful for developing therapeutic target molecules and biomarkers.
PXD038169	37052733	Decreased DANCR contributes to high glucose-induced extracellular matrix accumulation in human renal mesangial cell via regulating the TGF-beta/Smad signaling. 	Identification of long noncoding RNA DANCR binding proteins	diabetic kidney diseases, lncRNA	Glomerulosclerosis is one of the major histopathologic changes in diabetic kidney diseases (DKD), which is characterized by excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) in the glomerulus mainly produced by mesangial cells in response to transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) stimuli under diabetic conditions. Despite TGF-beta has been implicated as a major pathogenic factor in the development of diabetic glomerulosclerosis, clinical trials of monoclonal antibodies against TGF-beta failed to demonstrate therapeutic benefits. Thus, developing alternative therapeutic strategies to effectively block the TGF-beta/Smad signaling could be of paramount importance for DKD treatment. Emerging evidence indicates that dysregulation of certain lncRNAs can lead to aberrant activation of TGF-beta/Smad signaling. Herein, we identified a novel lncRNA, named DANCR, which could efficiently function as a negative regulator of TGF-beta/Smad signaling in mesangial cells. Ectopic expression of DANCR could specifically block the activation of TGF-beta/Smad signaling induced by high-glucose or TGF-beta in human renal mesangial cells (HRMCs). Mechanistically, DANCR functions to stabilize nemo-like kinase (NLK) mRNA through interaction with insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2), resulting in enhanced phosphorylating on the linker region of activated Smad2/3 in the nucleus. Taken together, our data have uncovered an lncRNA-based regulatory modality of the TGF-beta/Smad signaling and identified DANCR as an endogenous blocker of TGF-beta/Smad signaling in HRMCs, which may represent a potential therapeutic target against the diabetic glomerulosclerosis.
PXD040726	37053107	Comparison of the Nitric Oxide Synthase Interactomes and S-Nitroso-Proteomes: Furthering the Case for Enzymatic S-Nitrosylation. 	Nitric oxide synthase interactome	Nitric oxide synthase, interaction	Aims: S-nitrosylation of proteins is the main mechanism through which nitric oxide (NO) regulates cellular function and likely represents the archetype redox-based signaling system across aerobic and anaerobic organisms. How NO generated by different nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms leads to specificity of S-nitrosylation remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify proteins interacting with, and whose S-nitrosylation is mediated by, human NOS isoforms in the same cellular system, thereby illuminating the contribution of individual NOSs to specificity. Results: Of the hundreds of proteins interacting with each NOS, many were also S-nitrosylated. However, a large proportion of S-nitrosylated proteins (SNO-proteins) did not associate with NOS. Moreover, most NOS interactors and SNO-proteins were unique to each isoform. The amount of NO produced by each NOS isoform was unrelated to the numbers of SNO-proteins. Thus, NOSs promoted S-nitrosylation of largely distinct sets of target proteins. Different signaling pathways were enriched downstream of each NOS. Innovation and Conclusion: The interactomes and SNOomes of individual NOS isoforms were largely distinct. Only a small fraction of SNO-proteins interacted with their respective NOS. Amounts of S-nitrosylation were unrelated to the amount of NO generated by NOSs. These data argue against free diffusion of NO or NOS interactions as being necessary or sufficient for S-nitrosylation and favor roles for additional enzymes and/or regulatory elements in imparting SNO-protein specificity. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 39, 621-634.
PXD038551	37053475	De Novo Linear Phosphorylation Site Motifs for BCR-ABL Kinase Revealed by Phospho-Proteomics in Yeast. 	De novo BCR-ABL linear kinase motifs revealed by phosphoproteomics in yeast	ABL, BCR-ABL, KSEA, Phosphoproteomics, Protein tyrosine phosphorylation, linear sequence motif	BCR-ABL is the oncogenic fusion product of tyrosine kinase ABL1 and a highly frequent driver of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). The kinase activity of BCR-ABL is strongly elevated; however, changes of substrate specificity in comparison to wild-type ABL1 kinase are less well characterized. Here, we heterologously expressed full-length BCR-ABL kinases in yeast. We exploited the proteome of living yeast as an in vivo phospho-tyrosine substrate for assaying human kinase specificity. Phospho-proteomic analysis of ABL1 and BCR-ABL isoforms p190 and p210 yielded a high-confidence data set of 1127 phospho-tyrosine sites on 821 yeast proteins. We used this data set to generate linear phosphorylation site motifs for ABL1 and the oncogenic ABL1 fusion proteins. The oncogenic kinases yielded a substantially different linear motif when compared to ABL1. Kinase set enrichment analysis with human pY-sites that have high linear motif scores well-recalled BCR-ABL driven cancer cell lines from human phospho-proteome data sets.
PXD037737	37054907	Pseudomonas aeruginosa responds to altered membrane phospholipid composition by adjusting the production of two-component systems, proteases and iron uptake proteins. 	Proteomics reveals virulence adaptation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa phospholipase mutant with altered membrane phospholipid composition	biofilm, iron homeostasis, pathogen, phospholipids, physiology, proteases, two-component systems	Membrane protein and phospholipid (PL) composition changes in response to environmental cues and during infections. To achieve these, bacteria use adaptation mechanisms involving covalent modification and remodelling of the acyl chain length of PLs. However, little is known about bacterial pathways regulated by PLs. Here, we investigated proteomic changes in the biofilm of P. aeruginosa phospholipase mutant (incrementplaF) with altered membrane PL composition. The results revealed profound alterations in the abundance of many biofilm-related two-component systems (TCSs), including accumulation of PprAB, a key regulator of the transition to biofilm. Furthermore, a unique phosphorylation pattern of transcriptional regulators, transporters and metabolic enzymes, as well as differential production of several proteases, in incrementplaF, indicate that PlaF-mediated virulence adaptation involves complex transcriptional and posttranscriptional response. Moreover, proteomics and biochemical assays revealed the depletion of pyoverdine-mediated iron uptake pathway proteins in incrementplaF, while proteins from alternative iron-uptake systems were accumulated. These suggest that PlaF may function as a switch between different iron-acquisition pathways. The observation that PL-acyl chain modifying and PL synthesis enzymes were overproduced in incrementplaF reveals the interconnection of degradation, synthesis and modification of PLs for proper membrane homeostasis. Although the precise mechanism by which PlaF simultaneously affects multiple pathways remains to be elucidated, we suggest that alteration of PL composition in incrementplaF plays a role for the global adaptive response in P. aeruginosa mediated by TCSs and proteases. Our study revealed the global regulation of virulence and biofilm by PlaF and suggests that targeting this enzyme may have therapeutic potential.
PXD038249	37055003	Identification of pH-specific protein expression responses by Campylobacter jejuni strain NCTC 11168. 	Identification of pH-specific protein expression responses by Campylobacter jejuni strain NCTC 11168	Campylobacter jejuni, food safety, pH stress	In this study a data dependent acquisition label-free based proteomics approach was used to identify pH-dependent proteins that respond in a growth phase independent manner in Campylobacter jejuni reference strain NCTC 11168. NCTC 11168 was grown within its pH physiological normal growth range (pH 5.8, 7.0 and 8.0, mu = ~0.5 h(-1)) and exposed to pH 4.0 shock for 2 h. It was discovered that gluconate 2-dehydrogenase GdhAB, NssR-regulated globins Cgb and Ctb, cupin domain protein Cj0761, cytochrome c protein CccC (Cj0037c), and phosphate-binding transporter protein PstB all show acidic pH dependent abundance increases but are not activated by sub-lethal acid shock. Glutamate synthase (GLtBD) and the MfrABC and NapAGL respiratory complexes were induced in cells grown at pH 8.0. The response to pH stress by C. jejuni is to bolster microaerobic respiration and at pH 8.0 this is assisted by accumulation of glutamate the conversion of which could bolster fumarate respiration. The pH dependent proteins linked to growth in C. jejuni NCTC 11168 aids cellular energy conservation maximising growth rate and thus competitiveness and fitness.
PXD032744	37055321	Independent human mesenchymal stromal cell-derived extracellular vesicle preparations differentially attenuate symptoms in an advanced murine graft-versus-host disease model. 	Independent human mesenchymal stromal cell-derived extracellular vesicle preparations differentially attenuate symptoms in an advanced murine Graft-versus-Host-Disease model	Graft-versus-Host Disease, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, heterogeneity, mesenchymal stem cells, mesenchymal stromal cells	BACKGROUND AIMS: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) harvested from conditioned media of human mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) suppress acute inflammation in various disease models and promote regeneration of damaged tissues. After successful treatment of a patient with acute steroid-refractory graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) using EVs prepared from conditioned media of human bone marrow-derived MSCs, this study focused on improving the MSC-EV production for clinical application. METHODS: Independent MSC-EV preparations all produced according to a standardized procedure revealed broad immunomodulatory differences. Only a proportion of the MSC-EV products applied effectively modulated immune responses in a multi-donor mixed lymphocyte reaction (mdMLR) assay. To explore the relevance of such differences in vivo, at first a mouse GVHD model was optimized. RESULTS: The functional testing of selected MSC-EV preparations demonstrated that MSC-EV preparations revealing immunomodulatory capabilities in the mdMLR assay also effectively suppress GVHD symptoms in this model. In contrast, MSC-EV preparations, lacking such in vitro activities, also failed to modulate GVHD symptoms in vivo. Searching for differences of the active and inactive MSC-EV preparations, no concrete proteins or miRNAs were identified that could serve as surrogate markers. CONCLUSIONS: Standardized MSC-EV production strategies may not be sufficient to warrant manufacturing of MSC-EV products with reproducible qualities. Consequently, given this functional heterogeneity, every individual MSC-EV preparation considered for the clinical application should be evaluated for its therapeutic potency before administration to patients. Here, upon comparing immunomodulating capabilities of independent MSC-EV preparations in vivo and in vitro, we found that the mdMLR assay was qualified for such analyses.
PXD018940	37055396	Histone 4 lysine 5/12 acetylation enables developmental plasticity of Pristionchus mouth form. 	Effect of HDAC inhibitors on acetylated histones in P. pacificus	Pristionchus pacificus, epigenetics, histones, phenotypic plasticity	Development can be altered to match phenotypes with the environment, and the genetic mechanisms that direct such alternative phenotypes are beginning to be elucidated. Yet, the rules that govern environmental sensitivity vs. invariant development, and potential epigenetic memory, remain unknown. Here, we show that plasticity of nematode mouth forms is determined by histone 4 lysine 5 and 12 acetylation (H4K5/12ac). Acetylation in early larval stages provides a permissive chromatin state, which is susceptible to induction during the critical window of environmental sensitivity. As development proceeds deacetylation shuts off switch gene expression to end the critical period. Inhibiting deacetylase enzymes leads to fixation of prior developmental trajectories, demonstrating that histone modifications in juveniles can carry environmental information to adults. Finally, we provide evidence that this regulation was derived from an ancient mechanism of licensing developmental speed. Altogether, our results show that H4K5/12ac enables epigenetic regulation of developmental plasticity that can be stored and erased by acetylation and deacetylation, respectively.
PXD033119	37055412	IDH3gamma functions as a redox switch regulating mitochondrial energy metabolism and contractility in the heart. 	IDH3 serves as a redox switch that regulates energy metabolism and contractility in the heart under oxidative stress	HyPer-DAO mice, ROS, total reversible oxidation	Redox signaling and cardiac function are tightly linked. However, it is largely unknown which protein targets are affected by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) in cardiomyocytes that underly impaired inotropic effects during oxidative stress. Here, we combine a chemogenetic mouse model (HyPer-DAO mice) and a redox-proteomics approach to identify redox sensitive proteins. Using the HyPer-DAO mice, we demonstrate that increased endogenous production of H2O2 in cardiomyocytes leads to a reversible impairment of cardiac contractility in vivo. Notably, we identify the gamma-subunit of the TCA cycle enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)3 as a redox switch, linking its modification to altered mitochondrial metabolism. Using microsecond molecular dynamics simulations and experiments using cysteine-gene-edited cells reveal that IDH3gamma Cys148 and 284 are critically involved in the H2O2-dependent regulation of IDH3 activity. Our findings provide an unexpected mechanism by which mitochondrial metabolism can be modulated through redox signaling processes.
PXD037368	37057806	Comprehensive Characterization of Protein Turnover by Comparative SILAC Labeling Analysis in 3T3-L1. 	Comprehensive characterization of protein turnover by comparative SILAC labeling analysis in 3T3-L1	Adipocytes, Protein turnover, SILAC	A balance between the synthesis and degradation of proteins is referred to as protein turnover, which is crucial for cellular protein homeostasis. Proteome-wide analysis of protein turnover in adipocytes, which are well-known for their role in energy storage and their link to obesity and metabolism disorders, is yet to be conducted. Thus, with this objective in mind, our investigation utilized a comparative analysis of time-dependent SILAC labeling to assess protein turnover in 3T3-L1 adipocytes, spanning a period of 0 to 144 h. We observed that relatively faster or slower protein half-lives in several protein groups were associated with the PPARgamma signaling pathway, energy metabolism, extracellular matrix, ubiquitin-proteasome system, RNA splicing, Golgi complex, and lysosome. It is anticipated that these protein half-life profiles will provide greater clarity on the life cycle of adipocyte proteome and shed light on how they maintain protein homeostasis.
PXD040894	37058410	Exercise training remodels inguinal white adipose tissue through adaptations in innervation, vascularization, and the extracellular matrix. 	Exercise Training Remodels Inguinal White Adipose Tissue Through Adaptations in Innervation, Vascularization and the Extracellular Matrix	Cold Exposure, Exercise Training, Sedentary	Inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT) is essential for the beneficial effects of exercise training on metabolic health. The underlying mechanisms for these effects are not fully understood, and here, we test the hypothesis that exercise training results in a more favorable iWAT structural phenotype. Using biochemical, imaging, and multi-omics analyses, we find that 11 days of wheel running in male mice causes profound iWAT remodeling including decreased extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition and increased vascularization and innervation. We identify adipose stem cells as one of the main contributors to training-induced ECM remodeling, show that the PRDM16 transcriptional complex is necessary for iWAT remodeling and beiging, and discover neuronal growth regulator 1 (NEGR1) as a link between PRDM16 and neuritogenesis. Moreover, we find that training causes a shift from hypertrophic to insulin-sensitive adipocyte subpopulations. Exercise training leads to remarkable adaptations to iWAT structure and cell-type composition that can confer beneficial changes in tissue metabolism.
PXD040945	37059182	Interaction between poly(A)-binding protein PABPC4 and nuclear receptor corepressor NCoR1 modulates a metabolic stress response. 	Identification and functional characterization of NCoR1-interacting proteins associated with mitochondrial biogenesis	Biogenesis, Co-IP, Mitochondria, NCoR1	Mitochondria are organelles known primarily for generating ATP via the oxidative phosphorylation process. Environmental signals are sensed by whole organisms or cells and markedly affect this process, leading to alterations in gene transcription and, consequently, changes in mitochondrial function and biogenesis. The expression of mitochondrial genes is finely regulated by nuclear transcription factors, including nuclear receptors and their coregulators. Among the best-known coregulators is the nuclear receptor corepressor 1 (NCoR1). Muscle-specific knockout of NCoR1 in mice induces an oxidative phenotype, improving glucose and fatty acid metabolism. However, the mechanism by which NCoR1 is regulated remains elusive. In this work, we identified the poly(A)-binding protein 4 (PABPC4) as a new NCoR1 interactor. Unexpectedly, we found that silencing of PABPC4 induced an oxidative phenotype in both C2C12 and MEF cells, as indicated by increased oxygen consumption, mitochondria content, and reduced lactate production. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that PABPC4 silencing increased the ubiquitination and consequent degradation of NCoR1, leading to the derepression of PPAR-regulated genes. As a consequence, cells with PABPC4 silencing had a greater capacity to metabolize lipids, reduced intracellular lipid droplets, and reduced cell death. Interestingly, in conditions known to induce mitochondrial function and biogenesis, both mRNA expression and PABPC4 protein content were markedly reduced. Our study, therefore, suggests that the lowering of PABPC4 expression may represent an adaptive event required to induce mitochondrial activity in response to metabolic stress in skeletal muscle cells. As such, the NCoR1-PABPC4 interface might be a new road to the treatment of metabolic diseases.
PXD038761	37059220	Optimization of a high-throughput shotgun immunoproteomics pipeline for antigen identification. 	Optimizing High-Throughput Shotgun Immunoproteomics for Antigen Identification	Affinity chromatography, Antigen identification, Humoral immune response, Tandem-Mass Tag labeling, Xenogeneic biomaterials	Identification of proteins which initiate and/or perpetuate adaptive immune responses has potential to greatly impact pre-clinical and clinical work across numerous fields. To date, however, the methodologies available to identify antigens responsible for driving adaptive immune responses have been plagued by numerous issues which have drastically limited their widespread adoption. Therefore, in this study, we sought to optimize a shotgun immunoproteomics approach to alleviate these persistent issues and create a high-throughput, quantitative methodology for antigen identification. Three individual components of a previously published approach, namely the protein extraction, antigen elution, and LC-MS/MS analysis steps, were optimized in a systematic manner. These studies determined that preparation of protein extracts using a one-step tissue disruption method in immunoprecipitation (IP) buffer, eluting antigens from affinity chromatography columns with 1% trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), and TMT-labeling & multiplexing equal volumes of eluted samples for LC-MS/MS analysis, resulted in quantitative longitudinal antigen identification, with reduced variability between replicates and increased total number of antigens identified. This optimized pipeline provides a multiplexed, highly reproducible, and fully quantitative approach to antigen identification which is broadly applicable to determine the role of antigenic proteins in inciting (i.e., primary antigens) and perpetuating (i.e., secondary antigens) a wide range of diseases. SIGNIFICANCE: Using a systematic, hypothesis-driven approach, we identified potential improvements for three individual steps of a previously published approach for antigen-identification. Optimization of each step created a methodology which resolved many of the persistent issues associated with previous antigen identification approaches. The optimized high-throughput shotgun immunoproteomics approach described herein identifies more than five times as many unique antigens as the previously published method, greatly reduces protocol cost and mass spectrometry time per experiment, minimizes both inter- and intra-experimental variability, and ensures each experiment is fully quantitative. Ultimately, this optimized antigen identification approach has the potential to facilitate novel antigen identification studies, allowing evaluation of the adaptive immune response in a longitudinal manner and encourage innovations in a wide array of fields.
PXD033677	37059833	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic strategy for ecchymotic skin examination in forensic pathology. 	Forensic skin for ecchymosis wound characterization	nanoLC-MS/MS	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics has recently attracted the attention from forensic pathologists. This work is the first report of the development of a shotgun bottom-up proteomic approach based on rapid protein extraction and nano-liquid chromatography/high-resolution mass spectrometry applied to full-thickness human skin for the differential analysis of normal and ecchymotic tissues to identify new biomarkers for bruise characterization and dating. We identified around 2000 proteins from each pooled extract. The method showed excellent precision on independent replicates, with Pearson correlation coefficients always higher than 95%. Glycophorin A, a known biomarker of vital wounds from immunochemical studies, was identified only in ecchymotic tissues, as confirmed by Western blotting analysis. This finding suggests that this protein can be used as a MS-detectable biomarker of wound vitality. By focusing on skin samples from individuals with known wound dating, besides Glycophorin A, other proteins differentially expressed in ecchymotic samples and dependant on wound age were identified, although further analysis on larger datasets are needed to validate these findings. This study paves the way for an in-depth investigation of the potential of MS-based techniques for wound examination in forensic pathology, overcoming the limitations of immunochemical assays.
PXD031035	37059927	Specific pupylation as IDEntity reporter (SPIDER) for the identification of protein-biomolecule interactions. 	Mass spectrometry to exam noval receptors of the The Omicron Variant of SARS-CoV-2 RBD captured by SPIDER	Calu-3, H1299), Human proteome, cell surface proteins (VERO E6 [Chlorocebus sabaeus]	Protein-biomolecule interactions play pivotal roles in almost all biological processes. For a biomolecule of interest, the identification of the interacting protein(s) is essential. For this need, although many assays are available, highly robust and reliable methods are always desired. By combining a substrate-based proximity labeling activity from the pupylation pathway of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and the streptavidin (SA)-biotin system, we developed the Specific Pupylation as IDEntity Reporter (SPIDER) method for identifying protein-biomolecule interactions. Using SPIDER, we validated the interactions between the known binding proteins of protein, DNA, RNA, and small molecule. We successfully applied SPIDER to construct the global protein interactome for m(6)A and mRNA, identified a variety of uncharacterized m(6)A binding proteins, and validated SRSF7 as a potential m(6)A reader. We globally identified the binding proteins for lenalidomide and CobB. Moreover, we identified SARS-CoV-2-specific receptors on the cell membrane. Overall, SPIDER is powerful and highly accessible for the study of protein-biomolecule interactions.
PXD041833	37060901	Pyruvate-supported flux through medium-chain ketothiolase promotes mitochondrial lipid tolerance in cardiac and skeletal muscles. 	Metformin Impairs Intestinal Fructose Metabolism	Metformin, intestine, metabolism	Even-chain acylcarnitine (AC) metabolites, most of which are generated as byproducts of incomplete fatty acid oxidation (FAO), are viewed as biomarkers of mitochondrial lipid stress attributable to one or more metabolic bottlenecks in the beta-oxidation pathway. The origins and functional implications of FAO bottlenecks remain poorly understood. Here, we combined a sophisticated mitochondrial phenotyping platform with state-of-the-art molecular profiling tools and multiple two-state mouse models of respiratory function to uncover a mechanism that connects AC accumulation to lipid intolerance, metabolic inflexibility, and respiratory inefficiency in skeletal muscle mitochondria. These studies also identified a short-chain carbon circuit at the C4 node of FAO wherein reverse flux of glucose-derived acetyl CoA through medium-chain ketothiolase enhances lipid tolerance and redox stability in heart mitochondria by regenerating free CoA and NAD(+). The findings help to explain why diminished FAO capacity, AC accumulation, and metabolic inflexibility are tightly linked to poor health outcomes.
PXD034347	37061214	Identification of MPK4 interacting proteins in guard cells. 	MPK4 interacting proteins in guard cells through AP-MS	AP-MS, MPK4, guard cells, single-cell-type proteomics	Plants as sessile organisms are challenged by numerous biotic and abiotic stresses. Stomatal guard cells on the leaf surface are at the frontline of biotic and abiotic stress responses. Mitogen-activated protein kinase 4 (MPK4) has higher expression levels in guard cells than in mesophyll cells. The specific functions of MPK4 in guard cells are unknown. In this study, when MPK4 was overexpressed in Arabidopsis, bacterial entry of Pseudomonas syringae (Pst) into the plants was significantly decreased. The MPK4 overexpression plants had a similar trend of stomatal movement as wild-type Col-0, but had a smaller stomatal aperture than the Col-0, highlighting MPK4 plays a role in stomatal immune response. This function of the MPK4 requires its kinase activity because the MPK4 kinase-dead mutant did not have a significant difference in stomatal aperture compared to the Col-0. To understand MPK4 functions in guard cells, we investigated MPK4-associated protein complexes in guard cells using affinity purification mass spectrometry. A total of 145 proteins were identified to be in the MPK4-complex. Ten potential MPK4-interacting proteins were cloned and tested for physical interactions with the MPK4 using a yeast two hybrid (Y2H) system. Four proteins were newly identified to interact directly with the MPK4. SIGNIFICANCE: MPK4 is highly abundant in stomatal guard cells, but its specific functions in guard cells are largely unknown. Through a bacterial entry assay of MPK4 overexpression plants, we found that MPK4 may play an important role in stomatal immune response. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the MPK4 functions in guard cells, we characterized the MPK4-associated protein complex in guard cells. Many of the 145 identified proteins were involved in plant immunity and development. Four of the proteins were newly identified to interact directly with the MPK4. This work has provided additional evidence for the MPK4 function as a positive regulator for stomatal immunity. The guard cell MPK4 protein complex and the four new interacting proteins were revealed. Whether MPK4 directly phosphorylates these interacting proteins deserves further investigation. These newly discovered proteins have chartered exciting directions toward understanding new functions of the MPK4 kinase.
PXD045757	37062961	Organization, genomic targeting, and assembly of three distinct SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes in Arabidopsis. 	BCL7A and BCL7B potentiate SWI/SNF-complex-mediated chromatin accessibility to regulate gene expression and vegetative phase transition in Arabidopsis	BRM	Switch defective/sucrose nonfermentable (SWI/SNF) complexes are evolutionarily conserved multisubunit machines that play vital roles in chromatin architecture regulation for modulating gene expression via sliding or ejection of nucleosomes in eukaryotes. In plants, perturbations of SWI/SNF subunits often result in severe developmental disorders. However, the subunit composition, pathways of assembly, and genomic targeting of the plant SWI/SNF complexes are poorly understood. Here, we report the organization, genomic targeting, and assembly of 3 distinct SWI/SNF complexes in Arabidopsis thaliana: BRAHMA-Associated SWI/SNF complexes (BAS), SPLAYED-Associated SWI/SNF complexes (SAS), and MINUSCULE-Associated SWI/SNF complexes (MAS). We show that BAS complexes are equivalent to human ncBAF, whereas SAS and MAS complexes evolve in multiple subunits unique to plants, suggesting plant-specific functional evolution of SWI/SNF complexes. We further show overlapping and specific genomic targeting of the 3 plant SWI/SNF complexes on chromatin and reveal that SAS complexes are necessary for the correct genomic localization of the BAS complexes. Finally, we define the role of the core module subunit in the assembly of plant SWI/SNF complexes and highlight that ATPase module subunit is required for global complex stability and the interaction of core module subunits in Arabidopsis SAS and BAS complexes. Together, our work highlights the divergence of SWI/SNF chromatin remodelers during eukaryote evolution and provides a comprehensive landscape for understanding plant SWI/SNF complex organization, assembly, genomic targeting, and function.
PXD038990	37063293	Multi-omics analyses reveal ClpP activators disrupt essential mitochondrial pathways in triple-negative breast cancer. 	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis of SUM159 cells upon ClpP activation with ONC201 and TR57 compounds	ClpP, cancer, drug development, drug mechanism	ClpP activators ONC201 and related small molecules (TR compounds, Madera Therapeutics), have demonstrated significant anti-cancer potential in vitro and in vivo studies, including clinical trials for refractory solid tumors. Though progress has been made in identifying specific phenotypic outcomes following ClpP activation, the exact mechanism by which ClpP activation leads to broad anti-cancer activity has yet to be fully elucidated. In this study, we utilized a multi-omics approach to identify the ClpP-dependent proteomic, transcriptomic, and metabolomic changes resulting from ONC201 or the TR compound TR-57 in triple-negative breast cancer cells. Applying mass spectrometry-based methods of proteomics and metabolomics, we identified ~8,000 proteins and 588 metabolites, respectively. From proteomics data, 113 (ONC201) and 191 (TR-57) proteins significantly increased and 572 (ONC201) and 686 (TR-57) proteins significantly decreased in this study. Gene ontological (GO) analysis revealed strong similarities between proteins up- or downregulated by ONC201 or TR-57 treatment. Notably, this included the downregulation of many mitochondrial processes and proteins, including mitochondrial translation and mitochondrial matrix proteins. We performed a large-scale transcriptomic analysis of WT SUM159 cells, identifying ~7,700 transcripts (746 and 1,100 significantly increasing, 795 and 1,013 significantly decreasing in ONC201 and TR-57 treated cells, respectively). Less than 21% of these genes were affected by these compounds in ClpP null cells. GO analysis of these data demonstrated additional similarity of response to ONC201 and TR-57, including a decrease in transcripts related to the mitochondrial inner membrane and matrix, cell cycle, and nucleus, and increases in other nuclear transcripts and transcripts related to metal-ion binding. Comparison of response between both compounds demonstrated a highly similar response in all -omics datasets. Analysis of metabolites also revealed significant similarities between ONC201 and TR-57 with increases in alpha-ketoglutarate and 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and decreased ureidosuccinic acid, L-ascorbic acid, L-serine, and cytidine observed following ClpP activation in TNBC cells. Further analysis identified multiple pathways that were specifically impacted by ClpP activation, including ATF4 activation, heme biosynthesis, and the citrulline/urea cycle. In summary the results of our studies demonstrate that ONC201 and TR-57 induce highly similar and broad effects against multiple mitochondrial processes required for cell proliferation.
PXD024968	37063368	Dodecyl creatine ester improves cognitive function and identifies key protein drivers including KIF1A and PLCB1 in a mouse model of creatine transporter deficiency. 	Proteomic analyses of mouse brain tissues	Brain Stem, Cerebellum, Cortex, Hippocampus, brain	Creatine transporter deficiency (CTD), a leading cause of intellectual disability is a result of the mutation in the gene encoding the creatine transporter SLC6A8, which prevents creatine uptake into the brain, causing mental retardation, expressive speech and language delay, autistic-like behavior and epilepsy. Preclinical in vitro and in vivo data indicate that dodecyl creatine ester (DCE) which increases the creatine brain content, might be a therapeutic option for CTD patients. To gain a better understanding of the pathophysiology and DCE treatment efficacy in CTD, this study focuses on the identification of biomarkers related to cognitive improvement in a Slc6a8 knockout mouse model (Slc6a8-/y) engineered to mimic the clinical features of CTD patients which have low brain creatine content. Shotgun proteomics analysis of 4,035 proteins in four different brain regions; the cerebellum, cortex, hippocampus (associated with cognitive functions) and brain stem, and muscle as a control, was performed in 24 mice. Comparison of the protein abundance in the four brain regions between DCE-treated intranasally Slc6a8-/y mice and wild type and DCE-treated Slc6a8-/y and vehicle group identified 14 biomarkers, shedding light on the mechanism of action of DCE. Integrative bioinformatics and statistical modeling identified key proteins in CTD, including KIF1A and PLCB1. The abundance of these proteins in the four brain regions was significantly correlated with both the object recognition and the Y-maze tests. Our findings suggest a major role for PLCB1, KIF1A, and associated molecules in the pathogenesis of CTD.
PXD038757	37063799	Transcriptome-wide identification of single-stranded RNA binding proteins. 	Transcriptome-wide Identification of Single-stranded RNA Binding Proteins	DIA, RNA, transcriptome-wide	RNA-protein interactions are precisely regulated by RNA secondary structures in various biological processes. Large-scale identification of proteins that interact with particular RNA structure is important to the RBPome. Herein, a kethoxal assisted single-stranded RNA interactome capture (KASRIC) strategy was developed to globally identify single-stranded RNA binding proteins (ssRBPs). This approach combines RNA secondary structure probing technology with the conventional method of RNA-binding proteins profiling, realizing the transcriptome-wide identification of ssRBPs. Applying KASRIC, we identified 3180 candidate RBPs and 244 candidate ssRBPs in HeLa cells. Importantly, the 244 candidate ssRBPs contained 55 previously reported ssRBPs and 189 novel ssRBPs. Function analysis of the candidate ssRBPs exhibited enrichment in cellular processes related to RNA splicing and RNA degradation. The KASRIC strategy will facilitate the investigation of RNA-protein interactions.
PXD036036	37063823	Staphylococcus aureus induces tolerance in human monocytes accompanied with expression changes of cell surface markers. 	Staphylococcus aureus Mediated Tolerance Induction in Human Monocytes is accompanied with Specific Alterations in Membrane Receptor Expression	Glycoproteins, N-glycosylation, PAMP, Staphylococcus aureus, hydrazide, marker of tolerance, membrane proteins, monocyte, tolerance	Exposure of human monocytes to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or other pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMPs) induces a temporary insensitivity to subsequent LPS challenges, a cellular state called endotoxin tolerance (ET), associated with the pathogenesis of sepsis. In this study, we aimed to characterize the cellular state of human monocytes from healthy donors stimulated with Staphylococcus aureus in comparison to TLR2-specific ligands. We analyzed S. aureus induced gene expression changes after 2 and 24 hours by amplicon sequencing (RNA-AmpliSeq) and compared the pro-inflammatory response after 2 hours with the response in re-stimulation experiments. In parallel, glycoprotein expression changes in human monocytes after 24 hours of S. aureus stimulation were analyzed by proteomics and compared to stimulation experiments with TLR2 ligands Malp-2 and Pam3Cys and TLR4 ligand LPS. Finally, we analyzed peripheral blood monocytes of patients with S. aureus bloodstream infection for their ex vivo inflammatory responses towards S. aureus stimulation and their glycoprotein expression profiles. Our results demonstrate that monocytes from healthy donors stimulated with S. aureus and TLR ligands of Gram-positive bacteria entered the tolerant cell state after activation similar to LPS treatment. In particular reduced gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF, IL1beta) and chemokines (CCL20, CCL3, CCL4, CXCL2, CXCL3 and CXCL8) could be demonstrated. Glycoprotein expression changes in monocytes tolerized by the different TLR agonists were highly similar while S. aureus-stimulated monocytes shared some of the PAMP-induced changes but also exhibited a distinct expression profile. 11 glycoproteins (CD44, CD274, DSC2, ICAM1, LAMP3, LILRB1, PTGS2, SLC1A3, CR1, FGL2, and HP) were similarly up- or downregulated in all four comparisons in the tolerant cell state. Monocytes from patients with S. aureus bacteremia revealed preserved pro-inflammatory responsiveness to S. aureus stimulation ex vivo, expressed increased CD44 mRNA but no other glycoprotein of the tolerance signature was differentially expressed.
PXD038829	37065701	Gypenosides ameliorate high-fat diet-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice by regulating lipid metabolism. 	Gypenosides ameliorate high-fat diet-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice by regulating lipid metabolism	NAFLD, data mining, gypenosides, high-fat diet, transcriptome	Gypenosides (GP), extracted from the traditional Chinese herb Gynostemma pentaphyllum (Thunb.) Makino, have been used to treat metabolic disorders, including lipid metabolism disorders and diabetes. Although recent studies have confirmed their beneficial effects in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the underlying therapeutic mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we explored the protective mechanism of GP against NAFLD in mice and provided new insights into the prevention and treatment of NAFLD. Male C57BL6/J mice were divided into three experimental groups: normal diet, high-fat diet (HFD), and GP groups. The mice were fed an HFD for 16 weeks to establish an NAFLD model and then treated with GP for 22 weeks. The transcriptome and proteome of the mice livers were profiled using RNA sequencing and high-resolution mass spectrometry, respectively. The results showed that GP decreased serum lipid levels, liver index, and liver fat accumulation in mice. Principal component and heatmap analyses indicated that GP significantly modulated the changes in the expression of genes associated with HFD-induced NAFLD. The 164 differentially expressed genes recovered using GP were enriched in fatty acid and steroid metabolism pathways. Further results showed that GP reduced fatty acid synthesis by downregulating the expression of Srebf1, Fasn, Acss2, Acly, Acaca, Fads1, and Elovl6; modulated glycerolipid metabolism by inducing the expression of Mgll; promoted fatty acid transportation and degradation by inducing the expression of Slc27a1, Cpt1a, and Ehhadh; and reduced hepatic cholesterol synthesis by downregulating the expression of Tm7sf2, Ebp, Sc5d, Lss, Fdft1, Cyp51, Nsdhl, Pmvk, Mvd, Fdps, and Dhcr7. The proteomic data further indicated that GP decreased the protein expression levels of ACACA, ACLY, ACSS2, TM7SF2, EBP, FDFT1, NSDHL, PMVK, MVD, FDPS, and DHCR7 and increased those of MGLL, SLC27A1, and EHHADH. In conclusion, GP can regulate the key genes involved in hepatic lipid metabolism in NAFLD mice, providing initial evidence for the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effect of GP in NAFLD.
PXD040967	37065920	Combined transcriptomics and proteomics forecast analysis for potential biomarker in the acute phase of temporal lobe epilepsy. 	Proteomic analysis of hippocampal tissue in mice in acute temporal lobe epilepsy	Mus musculus,hippocampal tissue,temporal lobe epilepsy,TMT/iTRAQ Labeling,LC-MS/MS	Background: Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is a common chronic episodic illness of the nervous system. However, the precise mechanisms of dysfunction and diagnostic biomarkers in the acute phase of TLE are uncertain and hard to diagnose. Thus, we intended to qualify potential biomarkers in the acute phase of TLE for clinical diagnostics and therapeutic purposes. Methods: An intra-hippocampal injection of kainic acid was used to induce an epileptic model in mice. First, with a TMT/iTRAQ quantitative labeling proteomics approach, we screened for differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the acute phase of TLE. Then, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the acute phase of TLE were identified by linear modeling on microarray data (limma) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) using the publicly available microarray dataset GSE88992. Co-expressed genes (proteins) in the acute phase of TLE were identified by overlap analysis of DEPs and DEGs. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) algorithms were used to screen Hub genes in the acute phase of TLE, and logistic regression algorithms were applied to develop a novel diagnostic model for the acute phase of TLE, and the sensitivity of the diagnostic model was validated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Results: We screened a total of 10 co-expressed genes (proteins) from TLE-associated DEGs and DEPs utilizing proteomic and transcriptome analysis. LASSO and SVM-RFE algorithms for machine learning were applied to identify three Hub genes: Ctla2a, Hapln2, and Pecam1. A logistic regression algorithm was applied to establish and validate a novel diagnostic model for the acute phase of TLE based on three Hub genes in the publicly accessible datasets GSE88992, GSE49030, and GSE79129. Conclusion: Our study establishes a reliable model for screening and diagnosing the acute phase of TLE that provides a theoretical basis for adding diagnostic biomarkers for TLE acute phase genes.
PXD039240	37069444	Depletion of abundant plasma proteins for extracellular vesicle proteome characterization: benefits and pitfalls. 	Evaluation of depletion of abundant plasma proteins for proteomics characterization of EVs	DIA, EV, Extracellular vesicles, Plasma depletion	Blood extracellular vesicles (EVs) play essential roles in cell-cell communication and their molecular cargo is a promising source of disease biomarkers. However, proteomic characterization of plasma-derived EVs is challenged by the presence of highly abundant plasma proteins, which limits the detection of less abundant proteins, and by the low number of EVs in biological fluids. The aim of this study was to investigate if the removal of abundant plasma proteins prior to EV isolation could improve plasma-derived EV characterization by LC-MS/MS and expand the proteome coverage. Plasma depletion was performed using a single-use spin column and EVs were isolated from only 100 microL of non-depleted and depleted plasma by size exclusion chromatography. Afterwards, EVs were characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis and mass spectrometry-based proteomics using a data-independent acquisition approach. Depleted plasma-derived EVs had higher particle concentrations and particle-to-protein ratios. Depletion did increase the protein coverage with a higher number of identifications in EVs from depleted plasma (474 proteins) than from non-depleted (386 proteins). However, EVs derived from non-depleted plasma carried a slightly higher number of common EV markers. Overall, our findings suggest that plasma depletion prior to EV isolation by size exclusion chromatography provides higher yield and protein coverage, but slightly lower identification of EV markers. This study also showed the possibility to characterize the proteome of EVs derived from small plasma volumes, encouraging the clinical feasibility of the discovery of EV biomarkers.
PXD035971	37070168	RNA-dependent interactome allows network-based assignment of RNA-binding protein function. 	RNA-dependent interactome allows network-based assignment of RNA-binding protein function		RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) form highly diverse and dynamic ribonucleoprotein complexes, whose functions determine the molecular fate of the bound RNA. In the model organism Sacchromyces cerevisiae, the number of proteins identified as RBPs has greatly increased over the last decade. However, the cellular function of most of these novel RBPs remains largely unexplored. We used mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics to systematically identify protein-protein interactions (PPIs) and RNA-dependent interactions (RDIs) to create a novel dataset for 40 RBPs that are associated with the mRNA life cycle. Domain, functional and pathway enrichment analyses revealed an over-representation of RNA functionalities among the enriched interactors. Using our extensive PPI and RDI networks, we revealed putative new members of RNA-associated pathways, and highlighted potential new roles for several RBPs. Our RBP interactome resource is available through an online interactive platform as a community tool to guide further in-depth functional studies and RBP network analysis (https://www.butterlab.org/RINE).
PXD038902	37070193	PAXIP1 and STAG2 converge to maintain 3D genome architecture and facilitate promoter/enhancer contacts to enable stress hormone-dependent transcription. 	PAXIP1 and STAG2 converge to maintain 3D genome archi-tecture and facilitate promoter/enhancer contacts to enable stress hormone-dependent transcription	Glucocorticoid receptor, PAXIP1, RIME, STAG2	How steroid hormone receptors (SHRs) regulate transcriptional activity remains partly understood. Upon activation, SHRs bind the genome together with a co-regulator repertoire, crucial to induce gene expression. However, it remains unknown which components of the SHR-recruited co-regulator complex are essential to drive transcription following hormonal stimuli. Through a FACS-based genome-wide CRISPR screen, we functionally dissected the Glucocorticoid Receptor (GR) complex. We describe a functional cross-talk between PAXIP1 and the cohesin subunit STAG2, critical for regulation of gene expression by GR. Without altering the GR cistrome, PAXIP1 and STAG2 depletion alter the GR transcriptome, by impairing the recruitment of 3D-genome organization proteins to the GR complex. Importantly, we demonstrate that PAXIP1 is required for stability of cohesin on chromatin, its localization to GR-occupied sites, and maintenance of enhancer-promoter interactions. In lung cancer, where GR acts as tumor suppressor, PAXIP1/STAG2 loss enhances GR-mediated tumor suppressor activity by modifying local chromatin interactions. All together, we introduce PAXIP1 and STAG2 as novel co-regulators of GR, required to maintain 3D-genome architecture and drive the GR transcriptional programme following hormonal stimuli.
PXD040174	37070275	Purification of human beta- and gamma-actin from budding yeast. 	Purification of Human beta and gamma Actin from Budding Yeast	cytoplasmic actin, non-muscle actin, beta-actin, gamma-actin	Biochemical studies of human actin and its binding partners rely heavily on abundant and easily purified alpha-actin from skeletal muscle. Therefore, muscle actin has been used to evaluate and determine the activities of most actin regulatory proteins but there is an underlying concern that these proteins perform differently from actin present in non-muscle cells. To provide easily accessible and relatively abundant sources of human beta- or gamma-actin (i.e. cytoplasmic actins), we developed Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains that express each as their sole source of actin. Both beta- or gamma-actin purified in this system polymerize and interact with various binding partners, including profilin, mDia1 (formin), fascin and thymosin-beta4 (Tbeta4). Notably, Tbeta4 and profilin bind to beta- or gamma-actin with higher affinity than to alpha-actin, emphasizing the value of testing actin ligands with specific actin isoforms. These reagents will make specific isoforms of actin more accessible for future studies on actin regulation.
PXD031361	37070973	The Polyamine-Hypusine Circuit Controls an Oncogenic Translational Program Essential for Malignant Conversion in MYC-Driven Lymphoma. 	The polyamine-hypusine circuit controls an oncogenic translational program necessary for MYC-driven lymphomagenesis	Dhps, MYC, Polyamine-hypusine, eIF5A, lymphoma, translation, tumorigenesis	The MYC oncoprotein is activated in a broad spectrum of human malignancies and transcriptionally reprograms the genome to drive cancer cell growth. Given this, it is unclear if targeting a single effector of MYC will have therapeutic benefit. MYC activates the polyamine-hypusine circuit, which posttranslationally modifies the eukaryotic translation factor eIF5A. The roles of this circuit in cancer are unclear. Here we report essential intrinsic roles for hypusinated eIF5A in the development and maintenance of MYC-driven lymphoma, where the loss of eIF5A hypusination abolishes malignant transformation of MYC-overexpressing B cells. Mechanistically, integrating RNA sequencing, ribosome sequencing, and proteomic analyses revealed that efficient translation of select targets is dependent upon eIF5A hypusination, including regulators of G1-S phase cell-cycle progression and DNA replication. This circuit thus controls MYC's proliferative response, and it is also activated across multiple malignancies. These findings suggest the hypusine circuit as a therapeutic target for several human tumor types. SIGNIFICANCE: Elevated EIF5A and the polyamine-hypusine circuit are manifest in many malignancies, including MYC-driven tumors, and eIF5A hypusination is necessary for MYC proliferative signaling. Not-ably, this circuit controls an oncogenic translational program essential for the development and maintenance of MYC-driven lymphoma, supporting this axis as a target for cancer prevention and treatment. See related commentary by Wilson and Klein, p. 248. This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 247.
PXD036644	37071495	Kinome Reprogramming Is a Targetable Vulnerability in ESR1 Fusion-Driven Breast Cancer. 	Targeting kinome reprogramming in ESR1 fusion-driven breast cancer	Breast Cancer, Breast Cancer Patient-Derived Xenograft (PDX) Tumor, CPTAC Consortium, ESR1 fusion, Phosphoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Transcriptionally active ESR1 fusions (ESR1-TAF) are a potent cause of breast cancer endocrine therapy (ET) resistance. ESR1-TAFs are not directly druggable because the C-terminal estrogen/anti-estrogen-binding domain is replaced with translocated in-frame partner gene sequences that confer constitutive transactivation. To discover alternative treatments, a mass spectrometry (MS)-based kinase inhibitor pulldown assay (KIPA) was deployed to identify druggable kinases that are upregulated by diverse ESR1-TAFs. Subsequent explorations of drug sensitivity validated RET kinase as a common therapeutic vulnerability despite remarkable ESR1-TAF C-terminal sequence and structural diversity. Organoids and xenografts from a pan-ET-resistant patient-derived xenograft model that harbors the ESR1-e6>YAP1 TAF were concordantly inhibited by the selective RET inhibitor pralsetinib to a similar extent as the CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib. Together, these findings provide preclinical rationale for clinical evaluation of RET inhibition for the treatment of ESR1-TAF-driven ET-resistant breast cancer. SIGNIFICANCE: Kinome analysis of ESR1 translocated and mutated breast tumors using drug bead-based mass spectrometry followed by drug-sensitivity studies nominates RET as a therapeutic target. See related commentary by Wu and Subbiah, p. 3159.
PXD036451	37071704	Increasing Proteome Depth While Maintaining Quantitative Precision in Short-Gradient Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics. 	Increasing proteome depth while maintaining quantitative precision in short gradient data-independent acquisition proteomics	DIA, Isolation Windows, Multi-species, short-gradient	The combination of short liquid chromatography (LC) gradients and data-independent acquisition (DIA) by mass spectrometry (MS) has proven its huge potential for high-throughput proteomics. However, the optimization of isolation window schemes resulting in a certain number of data points per peak (DPPP) is understudied, although it is one of the most important parameters for the outcome of this methodology. In this study, we show that substantially reducing the number of DPPP for short-gradient DIA massively increases protein identifications while maintaining quantitative precision. This is due to a large increase in the number of precursors identified, which keeps the number of data points per protein almost constant even at long cycle times. When proteins are inferred from its precursors, quantitative precision is maintained at low DPPP while greatly increasing proteomic depth. This strategy enabled us to quantify 6018 HeLa proteins (>80 000 precursor identifications) with coefficients of variation below 20% in 30 min using a Q Exactive HF, which corresponds to a throughput of 29 samples per day. This indicates that the potential of high-throughput DIA-MS has not been fully exploited yet. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036451.
PXD039646	37072430	Plasmepsin X activates the PCRCR complex of Plasmodium falciparum by processing PfRh5 for erythrocyte invasion. 	Plasmepsin X activates function of the PCRCR complex in P. falciparum by processing PfRh5 for binding to basigin and invasion of human erythrocytes	IP-MS, Malaria, PCRCR, plasmepsin X	Plasmodium falciparum causes the most severe form of malaria in humans. The protozoan parasite develops within erythrocytes to mature schizonts, that contain more than 16 merozoites, which egress and invade fresh erythrocytes. The aspartic protease plasmepsin X (PMX), processes proteins and proteases essential for merozoite egress from the schizont and invasion of the host erythrocyte, including the leading vaccine candidate PfRh5. PfRh5 is anchored to the merozoite surface through a 5-membered complex (PCRCR), consisting of Plasmodium thrombospondin-related apical merozoite protein, cysteine-rich small secreted protein, Rh5-interacting protein and cysteine-rich protective antigen. Here, we show that PCRCR is processed by PMX in micronemes to remove the N-terminal prodomain of PhRh5 and this activates the function of the complex unmasking a form that can bind basigin on the erythrocyte membrane and mediate merozoite invasion. The ability to activate PCRCR at a specific time in merozoite invasion most likely masks potential deleterious effects of its function until they are required. These results provide an important understanding of the essential role of PMX and the fine regulation of PCRCR function in P. falciparum biology.
PXD007036	37072500	Spatial and temporal dynamics of ATP synthase from mitochondria toward the cell surface. 	Trafficking of Ectopic ATP Synthase via Mitochondrial Fission	Ectopic ATP synthases, image analysis, mitochondrial fission, protein trafficking	Ectopic ATP synthase complex (eATP synthase), located on cancer cell surface, has been reported to possess catalytic activity that facilitates the generation of ATP in the extracellular environment to establish a suitable microenvironment and to be a potential target for cancer therapy. However, the mechanism of intracellular ATP synthase complex transport remains unclear. Using a combination of spatial proteomics, interaction proteomics, and transcriptomics analyses, we find ATP synthase complex is first assembled in the mitochondria and subsequently delivered to the cell surface along the microtubule via the interplay of dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) and kinesin family member 5B (KIF5B). We further demonstrate that the mitochondrial membrane fuses to the plasma membrane in turn to anchor ATP syntheses on the cell surface using super-resolution imaging and real-time fusion assay in live cells. Our results provide a blueprint of eATP synthase trafficking and contribute to the understanding of the dynamics of tumor progression.
PXD016285	37073226	Metabolic tuning of a stable microbial community in the surface oligotrophic Indian Ocean revealed by integrated meta-omics. 	Metaproteomics analysis of microbial structure on the surface of Indian Ocean	DDA, metaproteomics, ocean microbial	Understanding the mechanisms, structuring microbial communities in oligotrophic ocean surface waters remains a major ecological endeavor. Functional redundancy and metabolic tuning are two mechanisms that have been proposed to shape microbial response to environmental forcing. However, little is known about their roles in the oligotrophic surface ocean due to less integrative characterization of community taxonomy and function. Here, we applied an integrated meta-omics-based approach, from genes to proteins, to investigate the microbial community of the oligotrophic northern Indian Ocean. Insignificant spatial variabilities of both genomic and proteomic compositions indicated a stable microbial community that was dominated by Prochlorococcus, Synechococcus, and SAR11. However, fine tuning of some metabolic functions that are mainly driven by salinity and temperature was observed. Intriguingly, a tuning divergence occurred between metabolic potential and activity in response to different environmental perturbations. Our results indicate that metabolic tuning is an important mechanism for sustaining the stability of microbial communities in oligotrophic oceans. In addition, integrated meta-omics provides a powerful tool to comprehensively understand microbial behavior and function in the ocean. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s42995-021-00119-6.
PXD039949	37074169	Enhancing Top-Down Characterization of Membrane Proteoforms with C8-Functional Amine-Bridged Hybrid Monoliths. 	Top-down proteomics of membrane proteoforms from HeLa cells and mouse hippocampus	Top-down proteomics, membrane protein, proteoforms	Comprehensive characterization of membrane proteins at the level of proteoforms in complex biological samples by top-down mass spectrometry (MS) is of vital importance in revealing their precise functions. However, severe peak broadening in the separation of hydrophobic membrane proteins, caused by resistance to mass transfer and strong adsorption on separation materials, leads to MS spectra overlap and signal suppression, which makes against the in-depth research on membrane proteoforms. Herein, C8-functional amine-bridged hybrid monoliths with an interconnected macroporous structure were developed by the in situ one-step sol-gel reaction of triethoxy(octyl)silane and bis[3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl]amine in capillaries. Due to the unique macroporous structure and bridged secondary amino groups in the framework, the monolith possessed reduced resistance to mass transfer, low nonspecific adsorption, and electrostatic repulsion to membrane proteins. These features tremendously alleviated peak broadening in the separation of membrane proteins, thus outperforming traditional reversed-phase columns in top-down characterization of membrane proteoforms. With this monolith, a total of 3100 membrane proteoforms were identified in the mouse hippocampus, representing the largest membrane proteoform database obtained by top-down analysis so far. The identified membrane proteoforms revealed abundant information, including combinatorial post-translational modifications (PTMs), truncation, and transmembrane domains. Furthermore, the proteoform information was integrated into the interaction network of membrane protein complexes involved in oxidative phosphorylation processing, opening up new opportunities to uncover more detailed molecular basis and interaction in the biological processes.
PXD040698	37076046	The Proteome and Phosphoproteome Uncovers Candidate Proteins Associated With Vacuolar Phosphate Signal Multipled by Vacuolar Phosphate Transporter 1 (VPT1) in Arabidopsis. 	The proteome and phosphoproteome uncovers candidate proteins associated with vacuolar phosphate signal multipled by Vacuolar phosphate transporter1 (VPT1) in Arabidopsis	Pi starvation response, Vacuolar phosphate transporter1, phosphoproteome	Plant vacuoles serve as the primary intracellular compartments for inorganic phosphate (Pi) storage. Passage of Pi across vacuolar membranes plays a critical role in buffering the cytoplasmic Pi level against fluctuations of external Pi and metabolic activities. To gain new insights into the proteins and processes, vacuolar Pi level regulated by vacuolar phosphate transporter 1 (VPT1) in Arabidopsis, we carried out tandem mass tag labeling proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of Arabidopsis WT and vpt1 loss-of-function mutant plants. The vpt1 mutant had a marked reduced vacuolar Pi level and a slight increased cytosol Pi level. The mutant was stunted as reflected in the reduction of the fresh weight compared with WT plants and bolting earlier under normal growth conditions in soil. Over 5566 proteins and 7965 phosphopeptides were quantified. About 146 and 83 proteins were significantly changed at protein abundance or site-specific phosphorylation levels, but only six proteins were shared between them. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the changes of Pi states in vpt1 are associated with photosynthesis, translation, RNA splicing, and defense response, consistent with similar studies in Arabidopsis. Except for PAP26, EIN2, and KIN10, which were reported to be associated with phosphate starvation signal, we also found that many differential proteins involved in abscisic acid signaling, such as CARK1, SnRK1, and AREB3, were significantly changed in vpt1. Our study illuminates several new aspects of the phosphate response and identifies important targets for further investigation and potential crop improvement.
PXD038874	37076047	Sulconazole Induces PANoptosis by Triggering Oxidative Stress and Inhibiting Glycolysis to Increase Radiosensitivity in Esophageal Cancer. 	Sulconazole induces PANoptosis to increase radiosensitivity of esophageal cancer by triggering oxidative stress and inhibiting glycolysis	PANoptosis, Sulconazole, oxidative stress	Esophageal cancer is the seventh most common cancer in the world. Although traditional treatment methods such as radiotherapy and chemotherapy have good effects, their side effects and drug resistance remain problematic. The repositioning of drug function provides new ideas for the research and development of anticancer drugs. We previously showed that the Food and Drug Administration-approved drug sulconazole can effectively inhibit the growth of esophageal cancer cells, but its molecular mechanism is not clear. Here, our study demonstrated that sulconazole had a broad spectrum of anticancer effects. It can not only inhibit the proliferation but also inhibit the migration of esophageal cancer cells. Both transcriptomic sequencing and proteomic sequencing showed that sulconazole could promote various types of programmed cell death and inhibit glycolysis and its related pathways. Experimentally, we found that sulconazole induced apoptosis, pyroptosis, necroptosis, and ferroptosis. Mechanistically, sulconazole triggered mitochondrial oxidative stress and inhibited glycolysis. Finally, we showed that low-dose sulconazole can increase radiosensitivity of esophageal cancer cells. Taken together, these new findings provide strong laboratory evidence for the clinical application of sulconazole in esophageal cancer.
PXD040370	37076483	Plasma metabolomic characterization of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron infection. 	Plasma metabolomic characterization of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron infection	Omicron, metabolomics	Omicron variants of SARS-CoV-2 have spread rapidly worldwide; however, most infected patients have mild or no symptoms. This study aimed to understand the host response to Omicron infections by performing metabolomic profiling of plasma. We observed that Omicron infections triggered an inflammatory response and innate immune, and adaptive immunity was suppressed, including reduced T-cell response and immunoglobulin antibody production. Similar to the original SARS-CoV-2 strain circulating in 2019, the host developed an anti-inflammatory response and accelerated energy metabolism in response to Omicron infection. However, differential regulation of macrophage polarization and reduced neutrophil function has been observed in Omicron infections. Interferon-induced antiviral immunity was not as strong in Omicron infections as in the original SARS-CoV-2 infections. The host response to Omicron infections increased antioxidant capacity and liver detoxification more than in the original strain. Hence, these findings suggest that Omicron infections cause weaker inflammatory alterations and immune responses than the original SARS-CoV-2 strain.
PXD039877	37076532	Poly(ADP-ribose)-binding protein RCD1 is a plant PARylation reader regulated by Photoregulatory Protein Kinases. 	Phosphorylation of RADICAL-INDUCED CELL DEATH1 by Photoregulatory Protein Kinases	PPK, RCD1, phosphorylation	Poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation (PARylation) is a reversible post-translational protein modification that has profound regulatory functions in metabolism, development and immunity, and is conserved throughout the eukaryotic lineage. Contrary to metazoa, many components and mechanistic details of PARylation have remained unidentified in plants. Here we present the transcriptional co-regulator RADICAL-INDUCED CELL DEATH1 (RCD1) as a plant PAR-reader. RCD1 is a multidomain protein with intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) separating its domains. We have reported earlier that RCD1 regulates plant development and stress-tolerance by interacting with numerous transcription factors (TFs) through its C-terminal RST domain. This study suggests that the N-terminal WWE and PARP-like domains, as well as the connecting IDR play an important regulatory role for RCD1 function. We show that RCD1 binds PAR in vitro via its WWE domain and that PAR-binding determines RCD1 localization to nuclear bodies (NBs) in vivo. Additionally, we found that RCD1 function and stability is controlled by Photoregulatory Protein Kinases (PPKs). PPKs localize with RCD1 in NBs and phosphorylate RCD1 at multiple sites affecting its stability. This work proposes a mechanism for negative transcriptional regulation in plants, in which RCD1 localizes to NBs, binds TFs with its RST domain and is degraded after phosphorylation by PPKs.
PXD038352	37077884	A complementary approach for genetic diagnosis of inborn errors of immunity using proteogenomic analysis. 	Demonstration of a complementary approach for genetic diagnosis of inborn errors of immunity using proteogenomic analysis	Data-independent acquisition, LC-MS, proteogenomi	Advances in next-generation sequencing technology have identified many genes responsible for inborn errors of immunity (IEI). However, there is still room for improvement in the efficiency of genetic diagnosis. Recently, RNA sequencing and proteomics using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) have gained attention, but only some studies have integrated these analyses in IEI. Moreover, previous proteomic studies for PBMCs have achieved limited coverage (approximately 3000 proteins). More comprehensive data are needed to gain valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying IEI. Here, we propose a state-of-the-art method for diagnosing IEI using PBMCs proteomics integrated with targeted RNA sequencing (T-RNA-seq), providing unique insights into the pathogenesis of IEI. This study analyzed 70 IEI patients whose genetic etiology had not been identified by genetic analysis. In-depth proteomics identified 6498 proteins, which covered 63% of 527 genes identified in T-RNA-seq, allowing us to examine the molecular cause of IEI and immune cell defects. This integrated analysis identified the disease-causing genes in four cases undiagnosed in previous genetic studies. Three of them could be diagnosed by T-RNA-seq, while the other could only be diagnosed by proteomics. Moreover, this integrated analysis showed high protein-mRNA correlations in B- and T-cell-specific genes, and their expression profiles identified patients with immune cell dysfunction. These results indicate that integrated analysis improves the efficiency of genetic diagnosis and provides a deep understanding of the immune cell dysfunction underlying the etiology of IEI. Our novel approach demonstrates the complementary role of proteogenomic analysis in the genetic diagnosis and characterization of IEI.
PXD017809	37078828	Elevated Nuclear PHGDH Synergistically Functions with cMyc to Reshape the Immune Microenvironment of Liver Cancer. 	Non-metabolic PHGDH facilitates cMyc to urge advanced liver cancer	PHGDH, hepatocellular carcinoma, serine synthesis	Herein, we observed that nuclear localization of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is associated with poor prognosis in liver cancer, and Phgdh is required for liver cancer progression in a mouse model. Unexpectedly, impairment of Phgdh enzyme activity exerts a slight effect in a liver cancer model. In liver cancer cells, the aspartate kinase-chorismate mutase-tyrA prephenate dehydrogenase (ACT) domain of PHGDH binds nuclear cMyc to form a transactivation axis, PHGDH/p300/cMyc/AF9, which drives chemokine CXCL1 and IL8 gene expression. Then, CXCL1 and IL8 promote neutrophil recruitment and enhance tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) filtration in the liver, thereby advancing liver cancer. Forced cytosolic localization of PHGDH or destruction of the PHGDH/cMyc interaction abolishes the oncogenic function of nuclear PHGDH. Depletion of neutrophils by neutralizing antibodies greatly hampers TAM filtration. These findings reveal a nonmetabolic role of PHGDH with altered cellular localization and suggest a promising drug target for liver cancer therapy by targeting the nonmetabolic region of PHGDH.
PXD036988	37080258	l-tyrosine modulates biofilm formation of Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579. 	Bacillus cereus biofilm formation with the aromatic amino acid L-tyrosine	Bacillus cereus, air-liquid biofilm, pathogen, shikimate pathway	Bacillus cereus is a food-borne pathogen capable of producing biofilms. Following analysis of biofilm formation by B. cereus ATCC 14579 transposon mutants in defined medium (DM), a deletion mutant of bc2939 (Deltabc2939) was constructed that showed decreased crystal violet biofilm staining and biofilm cell counts. In addition, Deltabc2939 also produced smaller colony biofilms with lower cell counts and loss of wrinkly morphology. The bc2939 gene encodes for Prephenate dehydrogenase, which converts Prephenate to 4-Hydroxy-phenylpyruvate (4-HPPA) in the l-tyrosine branch of the Shikimate pathway. While growth of the mutant and WT in DM was similar, addition of l-tyrosine was required to restore WT-like (colony) biofilm formation. Comparative proteomics showed reduced expression of Tyrosine-protein kinase/phosphatase regulators and extracellular polysaccharide cluster 1 (EPS1) proteins, aerobic electron transfer chain cytochrome aa3/d quinol oxidases, and iso-chorismate synthase involved in menaquinone synthesis in DM grown mutant biofilm cells, while multiple oxidative stress-related catalases and superoxide dismutases were upregulated. Performance in shaking cultures showed a 100-fold lower concentration of menaquinone-7 and reduction in cell counts of DM grown Deltabc2939 indicating increased oxygen sensitivity. Combining all results, points to an important role of Tyrosine-modulated EPS1 production and menaquinone-dependent aerobic respiration in B. cereus ATCC 14579 (colony) biofilm formation.
PXD037580	37080984	DeepFLR facilitates false localization rate control in phosphoproteomics. 	DeepFLR  Facilitates False Localization Rate Control in Phosphoproteomics	DeepFLR, FLR, Phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation is a post-translational modification crucial for many cellular processes and protein functions. Accurate identification and quantification of protein phosphosites at the proteome-wide level are challenging, not least because efficient tools for protein phosphosite false localization rate (FLR) control are lacking. Here, we propose DeepFLR, a deep learning-based framework for controlling the FLR in phosphoproteomics. DeepFLR includes a phosphopeptide tandem mass spectrum (MS/MS) prediction module based on deep learning and an FLR assessment module based on a target-decoy approach. DeepFLR improves the accuracy of phosphopeptide MS/MS prediction compared to existing tools. Furthermore, DeepFLR estimates FLR accurately for both synthetic and biological datasets, and localizes more phosphosites than probability-based methods. DeepFLR is compatible with data from different organisms, instruments types, and both data-dependent and data-independent acquisition approaches, thus enabling FLR estimation for a broad range of phosphoproteomics experiments.
PXD039648	37081202	A positive feedback loop controls Toxoplasma chronic differentiation. 	A positive feedback loop controls Toxoplasma chronic differentiation	T. gondii, gene expression, parasite development	Successful infection strategies must balance pathogen amplification and persistence. In the obligate intracellular parasite Toxoplasma gondii this is accomplished through differentiation into dedicated cyst-forming chronic stages that avoid clearance by the host immune system. The transcription factor BFD1 is both necessary and sufficient for stage conversion; however, its regulation is not understood. In this study we examine five factors that are transcriptionally activated by BFD1. One of these is a cytosolic RNA-binding protein of the CCCH-type zinc-finger family, which we name bradyzoite formation deficient 2 (BFD2). Parasites lacking BFD2 fail to induce BFD1 and are consequently unable to fully differentiate in culture or in mice. BFD2 interacts with the BFD1 transcript under stress, and deletion of BFD2 reduces BFD1 protein levels but not messenger RNA abundance. The reciprocal effects on BFD2 transcription and BFD1 translation outline a positive feedback loop that enforces the chronic-stage gene-expression programme. Thus, our findings help explain how parasites both initiate and commit to chronic differentiation. This work provides new mechanistic insight into the regulation of T. gondii persistence, and can be exploited in the design of strategies to prevent and treat these key reservoirs of human infection.
PXD041147	37082238	Multiple targets related to mitochondrial function unveiled by metabolomics and proteomics profiles of hearts from atrial fibrillation patients. 	Proteomics profiles of hearts from atrial fibrillation patients	atrial fibrillation, hearts	Background: The prominent mitochondrial metabolic changes of the atrium reportedly have significant impact on electrical signals and structural remodeling which play important roles in the occurrence and development of atrial fibrillation (AF). However, the mechanism is not completely known. Objective: This study was aimed to explore the mitochondrial metabolism reprogrammed in AF patients by integrating metabolomics as well as proteomics of human atrium tissues. Methods and Results: Left atrial tissue samples were harvested from 10 non-valvular AF patients and 10 matched samples from healthy donors for transplantation. In metabolomics analysis, 113 metabolites were upregulated and 10 metabolites were downregulated in AF, where multiple pathways related to mitochondrial energy metabolism were enriched. Correlation analysis between the differentially expressed proteins and metabolites identified several hub proteins related to mitochondrial function including Glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase 2 (GPD2), Synemin (SYNM), Plectin (PLEC), with MCC score of 27, 17, 16, respectively, which have the most interactions with the dysregulated metabolites and ranked at the top in network string interactions scored by MCC method. All 330 differentially expressed proteins including 225 upregulated and 105 downregulated molecules were revealed and analyzed, which identified the downregulation of GPD2 (p = 0.02 and FC = 0.77), PLEC (p < 0.001 and FC = 0.71) and SYNM (p = 0.04 and FC = 0.76) in AF patients. Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSEA) showed mitochondrial metabolism-associated pathways including oxidative phosphorylation (NES: -1.73) and ATP biosynthetic process (NES: -2.29), were dramatically diversified in human AF. In GSVA, the expression levels of GPD2, PLEC, and SYNM were demonstrated to be associated with multiple metabolic pathways related to mitochondrial function (e.g., lipid metabolism and AMP activated protein kinase signaling) and cardiac structural and electrical remodeling (e.g., contractile fiber, ion homeostasis), which were proven vital in the development and maintenance of AF. Conclusion: In all, this study provides new insights into understanding the mechanisms of AF progression, especially the reprogramming mitochondrial metabolism, and identifies several genes related to mitochondrial function as novel targets for AF, which may be involved in the occurrence and development of AF.
PXD034071	37083226	LSM14B is an Oocyte-Specific RNA-Binding Protein Indispensable for Maternal mRNA Metabolism and Oocyte Development in Mice. 	Proteomic profiling of RNA binding proteins in mouse oocyte	mouse,oocyte,RBPs	Mammalian oogenesis features reliance on the mRNAs produced and stored during early growth phase. These are essential for producing an oocyte competent to undergo meiotic maturation and embryogenesis later when oocytes are transcriptionally silent. The fate of maternal mRNAs hence ensures the success of oogenesis and the quality of the resulting eggs. Nevertheless, how the fate of maternal mRNAs is determined remains largely elusive. RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are crucial regulators of oogenesis, yet the identity of the full complement of RBPs expressed in oocytes is unknown. Here, a global view of oocyte-expressed RBPs is presented: mRNA-interactome capture identifies 1396 RBPs in mouse oocytes. An analysis of one of these RBPs, LSM family member 14 (LSM14B), demonstrates that this RBP is specific to oocytes and associated with many networks essential for oogenesis. Deletion of Lsm14b results in female-specific infertility and a phenotype characterized by oocytes incompetent to complete meiosis and early embryogenesis. LSM14B serves as an interaction hub for proteins and mRNAs throughout oocyte development and regulates translation of a subset of its bound mRNAs. Therefore, RNP complexes tethered by LSM14B are found exclusively in oocytes and are essential for the control of maternal mRNA fate and oocyte development.
PXD042004	37083684	TRIM21 enhances bortezomib sensitivity in multiple myeloma by halting prosurvival autophagy. 	TRIM21 enhances bortezomib sensitivity in multiple myeloma by halting pro-survival autophagy	TRIM21, bortezomib, multiple myeloma	Bortezomib (bort) is an effective therapeutic agent for patients with multiple myeloma (MM); however, most patients develop drug resistance. Autophagy, a highly conserved process that recycles cytosol or entire organelles via lysosomal activity, is essential for the survival, homeostasis, and drug resistance in MM. Growing evidence has highlighted that E3 ligase tripartite motif-containing protein 21 (TRIM21) not only interacts with multiple autophagy regulators but also participates in drug resistance in various cancers. However, to date, the direct substrates and additional roles of TRIM21 in MM remain unexplored. In this study, we demonstrated that low TRIM21 expression is a factor for relapse in MM. TRIM21 knockdown (KD) made MM cells more resistant to bort, whereas TRIM21 overexpression (OE) resulted in increased MM sensitivity to bort. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic studies of TRIM21 KD MM cells showed that bort resistance was associated with increased oxidative stress and elevated prosurvival autophagy. Our results showed that TRIM21 KD MM cell lines induced prosurvival autophagy after bort treatment, suppressing autophagy by 3-methyladenine treatment or by the short hairpin RNA of autophagy-related gene 5 (ATG5)-restored-bort sensitivity. Indeed, ATG5 expression was increased and decreased by TRIM21 KD and OE, respectively. TRIM21 affected autophagy by ubiquitinating ATG5 through K48 for proteasomal degradation. Importantly, we confirmed that TRIM21 could potentiate the antimyeloma effect of bort through in vitro and in vivo experiments. Overall, our findings define the key role of TRIM21 in MM bort resistance and provide a foundation for a novel targeted therapeutic approach.
PXD033163	37084140	eEF2 improves dense connective tissue repair and healing outcome by regulating cellular death, autophagy, apoptosis, proliferation and migration. 	functional biomarker which could be used to predict connective healing based on an Achilles Tendon Model	MS, biomarker, connective tissue, eEF2, fibroblast, healing	Outcomes following human dense connective tissue (DCT) repair are often variable and suboptimal, resulting in compromised function and development of chronic painful degenerative diseases. Moreover, biomarkers and mechanisms that guide good clinical outcomes after DCT injuries are mostly unknown. Here, we characterize the proteomic landscape of DCT repair following human Achilles tendon rupture and its association with long-term patient-reported outcomes. Moreover, the potential regulatory mechanisms of relevant biomarkers were assessed partly by gene silencing experiments. A mass-spectrometry based proteomic approach quantified a large number (769) of proteins, including 51 differentially expressed proteins among 20 good versus 20 poor outcome patients. A novel biomarker, elongation factor-2 (eEF2) was identified as being strongly prognostic of the 1-year clinical outcome. Further bioinformatic and experimental investigation revealed that eEF2 positively regulated autophagy, cell proliferation and migration, as well as reduced cell death and apoptosis, leading to improved DCT repair and outcomes. Findings of eEF2 as novel prognostic biomarker could pave the way for new targeted treatments to improve healing outcomes after DCT injuries.Trial registration: NCT02318472 registered 17 December 2014 and NCT01317160 registered 17 March 2011, with URL http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02318472 and http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/study/NCT01317160 .
PXD037349	37084618	Variation in microbiological heterogeneity in Chinese strong-flavor Baijiu fermentation for four representative varieties of sorghum. 	Metaproteomic analysis of microbial community in Zaopei for Chinese Baijiu production	Metaproteomics, Microbial community, Strong-flavor Baijiu, Zaopei	The quality and composition of strong-flavor Baijiu (SFB), a type of Chinese liquor, depends on the variety of sorghum used in fermentation. However, comprehensive in situ studies measuring the effects sorghum varieties on the fermentation are lacking and the underlying microbial mechanisms remains poorly understood. We studied the in situ fermentation of SFB by using metagenomic, metaproteomic, and metabolomic techniques across four sorghum varieties. Sensory characteristics were best for SFB made from glutinous variety Luzhouhong, followed by glutinous hybrid Jinnuoliang and Jinuoliang, and those made with non-glutinous Dongzajiao. In agreement with sensory evaluations, the volatile composition of SFB samples differed between sorghum varieties (P < 0.05). Fermentation of different sorghum varieties varied in microbial diversity, structure, volatile compounds, and physicochemical properties (pH, temperature, starch, reducing sugar, and moisture) (P < 0.05), with most changes occurring within the first 21 days. Additionally, the microbial interactions and their relationship with volatiles, as well as the physicochemical factors that govern microbial succession, differed between varieties of sorghum. The number of physicochemical factors affecting bacterial communities outweighed those affecting fungal communities, suggesting that bacteria were less resilient to the brewing conditions. This correlates with the finding that bacteria play a major role in the differences in microbial communities and metabolic functions during fermentation with the different varieties of sorghum. Metagenomic function analysis revealed differences in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism between sorghum varieties throughout most of the brewing process. Metaproteomics further indicated most differential proteins were found in these two pathways, related to differences in volatiles between sorghum varieties of Baijiu and originating from Lactobacillus. These results provide insight into the microbial principles underlying Baijiu production and can be used to improve the quality of Baijiu by selecting the appropriate raw materials and optimizing fermentation parameters.
PXD033080	37084685	Identification of novel prognostic indicators for oral squamous cell carcinoma based on proteomics and metabolomics. 	Identification of novel prognostic indicators for oral squamous cell carcinoma based on proteomics	oral squamous cell carcinoma	BACKGROUND: The low 5-year survival rate of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) suggests that new prognostic indicators need to be identified to aid the clinical management of patients. METHODS: Saliva samples from OSCC patients and healthy controls were collected for proteomic and metabolomic sequencing. Gene expressed profiling was downloaded from TCGA and GEO databases. After the differential analysis, proteins with a significant impact on the prognosis of OSCC patients were screened. Correlation analysis was performed with metabolites and core proteins were identified. Cox regression analysis was utilized to stratify OSCC samples based on core proteins. The prognostic predictive ability of the core protein was then evaluated. Differences in infiltration of immune cells between the different strata were identified. RESULTS: There were 678 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), 94 intersected DEPs among them by intersecting with differentially expressed genes in TCGA and GSE30784 dataset. Seven core proteins were identified that significantly affected OSCC patient survival and strongly correlated with differential metabolites (R(2) > 0.8). The samples were divided into high- and low-risk groups according to median risk score. The risk score and core proteins were well prognostic factor in OSCC patients. Genes in high-risk group were enriched in Notch signaling pathway, epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT), and angiogenesis. Core proteins were strongly associated with the immune status of OSCC patients. CONCLUSIONS: The results established a 7-protein signatures with the hope of early detection and the capacity for risk assessment of OSCC patient prognosis. Further providing more potential targets for the treatment of OSCC.
PXD025800	37084954	Novel Time-dependent Multi-omics Integration in Sepsis-associated Liver Dysfunction. 	Integrative multi-omics analysis in sepsis-associated liver dysfunction	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Toxicoproteomics (B/D-HPP), integrative omics, liver dysfunction, multiomics, sepsis	The recently developed technologies that allow the analysis of each single omics have provided an unbiased insight into ongoing disease processes. However, it remains challenging to specify the study design for the subsequent integration strategies that can associate sepsis pathophysiology and clinical outcomes. Here, we conducted a time-dependent multi-omics integration (TDMI) in a sepsis-associated liver dysfunction (SALD) model. We successfully deduced the relation of the toll-like receptor (TLR4) pathway with SALD. Although TLR4 is a critical factor in sepsis progression, it is not specified in single omics results but only in the TDMI analysis. This result indicates that the TDMI-based approach is more advantageous than single omics analysis in terms of exploring the underlying pathophysiological mechanism of this disease. Furthermore, this approach can be an ideal paradigm for insightful biological interpretations of multi-omics datasets that will potentially reveal novel insights into basic biology, health, and diseases, thus allowing the identification of promising candidates for therapeutic strategies.
PXD019779	37085479	RNA binding protein SYNCRIP maintains proteostasis and self-renewal of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. 	Proteomic analysis of SYNCRIP deficient HSPCs	LC-MSMS AML murine SYNCRIP transcription regulation	Tissue homeostasis is maintained after stress by engaging and activating the hematopoietic stem and progenitor compartments in the blood. Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are essential for long-term repopulation after secondary transplantation. Here, using a conditional knockout mouse model, we revealed that the RNA-binding protein SYNCRIP is required for maintenance of blood homeostasis especially after regenerative stress due to defects in HSCs and progenitors. Mechanistically, we find that SYNCRIP loss results in a failure to maintain proteome homeostasis that is essential for HSC maintenance. SYNCRIP depletion results in increased protein synthesis, a dysregulated epichaperome, an accumulation of misfolded proteins and induces endoplasmic reticulum stress. Additionally, we find that SYNCRIP is required for translation of CDC42 RHO-GTPase, and loss of SYNCRIP results in defects in polarity, asymmetric segregation, and dilution of unfolded proteins. Forced expression of CDC42 recovers polarity and in vitro replating activities of HSCs. Taken together, we uncovered a post-transcriptional regulatory program that safeguards HSC self-renewal capacity and blood homeostasis.
PXD041143	37085493	Transcription tuned by S-nitrosylation underlies a mechanism for Staphylococcus aureus to circumvent vancomycin killing. 	S-nitrosylated cysteine residues identification in Staphylococcus aureus XN108	S-nitrosylation, Staphylococcus aureus	Treatment of Staphylococcus aureus infections is a constant challenge due to emerging resistance to vancomycin, a last-resort drug. S-nitrosylation, the covalent attachment of a nitric oxide (NO) group to a cysteine thiol, mediates redox-based signaling for eukaryotic cellular functions. However, its role in bacteria is largely unknown. Here, proteomic analysis revealed that S-nitrosylation is a prominent growth feature of vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus. Deletion of NO synthase (NOS) or removal of S-nitrosylation from the redox-sensitive regulator MgrA or WalR resulted in thinner cell walls and increased vancomycin susceptibility, which was due to attenuated promoter binding and released repression of genes involved in cell wall metabolism. These genes failed to respond to H2O2-induced oxidation, suggesting distinct transcriptional responses to alternative modifications of the cysteine residue. Furthermore, treatment with a NOS inhibitor significantly decreased vancomycin resistance in S. aureus. This study reveals that transcriptional regulation via S-nitrosylation underlies a mechanism for NO-mediated bacterial antibiotic resistance.
PXD041290	37085665	RAB35 is required for murine hippocampal development and functions by regulating neuronal cell distribution. 	TMT-based quantitative proteomics in Rab35 cKO P0 hippocampus	Rab35, TMT, hippocampus	RAB35 is a multifunctional small GTPase that regulates endocytic recycling, cytoskeletal rearrangement, and cytokinesis. However, its physiological functions in mammalian development remain unclear. Here, we generated Rab35-knockout mice and found that RAB35 is essential for early embryogenesis. Interestingly, brain-specific Rab35-knockout mice displayed severe defects in hippocampal lamination owing to impaired distribution of pyramidal neurons, although defects in cerebral cortex formation were not evident. In addition, Rab35-knockout mice exhibited defects in spatial memory and anxiety-related behaviors. Quantitative proteomics indicated that the loss of RAB35 significantly affected the levels of other RAB proteins associated with endocytic trafficking, as well as some neural cell adhesion molecules, such as contactin-2. Collectively, our findings revealed that RAB35 is required for precise neuronal distribution in the developing hippocampus by regulating the expression of cell adhesion molecules, thereby influencing spatial memory.
PXD040860	37085710	Machine learning reveals limited contribution of trans-only encoded variants to the HLA-DQ immunopeptidome. 	Machine learning reveals limited contribution of trans-only encoded variants to the HLA-DQ immunopeptidome	HLA-DQ, Immunopeptidome, Machine learning	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II antigen presentation is key for controlling and triggering T cell immune responses. HLA-DQ molecules, which are believed to play a major role in autoimmune diseases, are heterodimers that can be formed as both cis and trans variants depending on whether the alpha- and beta-chains are encoded on the same (cis) or opposite (trans) chromosomes. So far, limited progress has been made for predicting HLA-DQ antigen presentation. In addition, the contribution of trans-only variants (i.e. variants not observed in the population as cis) in shaping the HLA-DQ immunopeptidome remains largely unresolved. Here, we seek to address these issues by integrating state-of-the-art immunoinformatics data mining models with large volumes of high-quality HLA-DQ specific mass spectrometry immunopeptidomics data. The analysis demonstrates highly improved predictive power and molecular coverage for models trained including these novel HLA-DQ data. More importantly, investigating the role of trans-only HLA-DQ variants reveals a limited to no contribution to the overall HLA-DQ immunopeptidome. In conclusion, this study furthers our understanding of HLA-DQ specificities and casts light on the relative role of cis versus trans-only HLA-DQ variants in the HLA class II antigen presentation space. The developed method, NetMHCIIpan-4.2, is available at https://services.healthtech.dtu.dk/services/NetMHCIIpan-4.2 .
PXD021629	37086911	Untargeted proteomic differences between clinical strains of methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcusaureus. 	Proteomic differences in methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus	MRSA, MSSA, Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin resistance	Staphylococcus aureus is a common disease-causing bacterium that has developed resistances to a wide variety of antibiotics. This increasing antibiotic resistance has made management of these infections difficult. A better understanding of the general differences among clinical S. aureus strains beyond the well characterized resistance mechanisms may help in identifying new anti-microbial targets. This study aimed to identify and compare the general differences in protein profiles among clinical strains of S. aureus sensitive and resistant to methicillin. The proteomic profiles of five methicillin sensitive (MSSA) and five methicillin resistant (MRSA) S. aureus strains were analyzed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Protein identification was done using Progenesis QI for Proteomics and the UniProt S. aureus database. Proteins that play roles in virulence, metabolism, and protein synthesis were found to be present at different abundances between MSSA and MRSA (Data available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021629). This study shows differences in protein profiles between antibiotic sensitive and antibiotic resistant clinical strains of S. aureus that may affect the resistance mechanism. Further research on these differences may identify new drug targets against methicillin resistant S. aureus strains.
PXD037028	37087475	A novel protein encoded by circINSIG1 reprograms cholesterol metabolism by promoting the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of INSIG1 in colorectal cancer. 	Identification of interacting proteins with circINSIG1-121 in hunan colorectal cancer cell by LC-MS	LC-MS, circINSIG1-121, hunan colorectal cancer cell, interacting proteins	BACKGROUND: Hypoxia is a hallmark of solid tumors and leads to the metabolic reprogramming of cancer cells. The role of epigenetic regulation between hypoxia and aberrant cholesterol metabolism in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains elusive. METHODS: Hypoxia-responsive circular RNAs (circRNAs) were identified by high throughput RNA sequencing between CRC cells cultured under normoxia or hypoxia. The protein-coding potential of circINSIG1 was identified by polysome profiling and LC-MS. The function of circINSIG1 was validated in vitro and in vivo by gain or loss of function assays. Mechanistic results were concluded by immunoprecipitation analyses. RESULTS: A novel hypoxia-responsive circRNA named circINSIG1 was identified, which was upregulated in CRC tissues and correlated with advanced clinical stages and poor survival. Mechanistically, circINSIG1 encoded a 121 amino acid protein circINSIG1-121 to promote K48-linked ubiquitination of the critical cholesterol metabolism regulator INSIG1 at lysine 156 and 158 by recruiting CUL5-ASB6 complex, a ubiquitin E3 ligase complex, thereby inducing cholesterol biosynthesis to promote CRC proliferation and metastasis. The orthotopic xenograft tumor models and patient-derived xenograft models further identified the role of circINSIG1 in CRC progression and potential therapeutic target of CRC. CONCLUSIONS: circINSIG1 presents an epigenetic mechanism which provides insights into the crosstalk between hypoxia and cholesterol metabolism, and provides a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of CRC.
PXD039828	37088717	Development and Characterization of Selective FAK Inhibitors and PROTACs with In Vivo Activity. 	Development and characterization of selective FAK inhibitors and PROTACs with in vivo activity	FAK, PROTAC, degrader, inhibitor	Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is an attractive drug target due to its overexpression in cancer. FAK functions as a non-receptor tyrosine kinase and scaffolding protein, coordinating several downstream signaling effectors and cellular processes. While drug discovery efforts have largely focused on targeting FAK kinase activity, FAK inhibitors have failed to show efficacy as single agents in clinical trials. Here, using structure-guided design, we report the development of a selective FAK inhibitor (BSJ-04-175) and degrader (BSJ-04-146) to evaluate the consequences and advantages of abolishing all FAK activity in cancer models. BSJ-04-146 achieves rapid and potent FAK degradation with high proteome-wide specificity in cancer cells and induces durable degradation in mice. Compared to kinase inhibition, targeted degradation of FAK exhibits pronounced improved activity on downstream signaling and cancer cell viability and migration. Together, BSJ-04-175 and BSJ-04-146 are valuable chemical tools to dissect the specific consequences of targeting FAK through small-molecule inhibition or degradation.
PXD039045	37089578	A metabolomic and proteomic study to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of immunotherapy resistance in patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma. 	A metabolomic and proteomic study to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of immunotherapy resistance in patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma	PD-1 monoclonal antibody, immunotherapy, metabolics, oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC)	Systemic chemotherapy, the standard first-line treatment option for patients with advanced oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), results in a median survival of ~1 year. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a breakthrough oncology treatment option; however, most patients with advanced OSCC develop primary and acquired resistance to programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibody, severely affecting their prognosis. Therefore, there is an urgent need to investigate the molecular mechanism underlying resistance to treatment. The present study aimed to explore the mechanism of resistance to PD-1 monoclonal antibody. Plasma samples were collected from patients with OSCC treated with immunotherapy, who achieved pathological response/partial response (CR/PR) or stable disease/progressive disease (SD/PD) after the fourth treatment cycle. TM-widely targeted metabolomics, widely targeted lipidomics, and DIA proteomics assays were performed. Differential metabolites were screened based on fold change (FC) >=1.5 or <=0.67 and a VIP >=1; differential proteins were screened based on FC >1.5 or <0.67 and P<0.05. The identified metabolites were annotated and mapped using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway databases. The differential proteins were annotated to the Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway databases. A correlation network diagram was drawn using differential expressed proteins and metabolites with (Pearson correlation coefficient) r>0.80 and P<0.05. Finally, 197 and 113 differential metabolites and proteins were screened, respectively, in patients with CR/PR and SD/PD groups. The KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that all of these metabolites and proteins were enriched in cholesterol metabolism and in the NF-kappaB and phospholipase D signalling pathways. The present study is the first to demonstrate that PD-1 inhibitor resistance may be attributed to cholesterol metabolism or NF-kappaB and phospholipase D signalling pathway activation. This finding suggests that targeting these signalling pathways may be a promising novel therapeutic approach in OSCC which may improve prognosis in patients undergoing immunotherapy.
PXD040646	37091229	Thrombospondin1 mimics rapidly relieve depression via Shank3 dependent uncoupling between dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. 	Effect of TSP1 on peotein expression  of mice mPFC	MDD, Shank3, TSP1, mPFC	Deficits in astrocyte function contribute to major depressive disorder (MDD) and suicide, but the therapeutic effect of directly reactivating astrocytes for depression remains unclear. Here, specific gains and losses of astrocytic cell functions in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) bidirectionally regulate depression-like symptoms. Remarkably, recombinant human Thrombospondin-1 (rhTSP1), an astrocyte-secreted protein, exerted rapidly antidepressant-like actions through tyrosine hydroxylase (Th)/dopamine (DA)/dopamine D2 receptors (D2Rs) pathways, but not dopamine D1 receptors (D1Rs), which was dependent on SH3 and multiple ankyrin repeat domains 3 (Shank3) in the mPFC. TSP1 in the mPFC might have potential as a target for treating clinical depression.
PXD038684	37091547	Mitoribosome sensitivity to HSP70 inhibition uncovers metabolic liabilities of castration-resistant prostate cancer. 	Mitoribosome sensitivity to HSP70 inhibition uncovers metabolic liabilities of castration-resistant prostate cancer	Hsp70, HspA9, JG-98, Prostate cancer, mitoribosome	The androgen receptor is a key regulator of prostate cancer and the principal target of current prostate cancer therapies collectively termed androgen deprivation therapies. Insensitivity to these drugs is a hallmark of progression to a terminal disease state termed castration-resistant prostate cancer. Therefore, novel therapeutic options that slow progression of castration-resistant prostate cancer and combine effectively with existing agents are in urgent need. We show that JG-98, an allosteric inhibitor of HSP70, re-sensitizes castration-resistant prostate cancer to androgen deprivation drugs by targeting mitochondrial HSP70 (HSPA9) to suppress aerobic respiration. Rather than impacting androgen receptor stability as previously described, JG-98's primary effect is inhibition of mitochondrial translation, leading to disruption of electron transport chain activity. Although functionally distinct from HSPA9 inhibition, direct inhibition of the electron transport chain with a complex I or II inhibitor creates a similar physiological state capable of re-sensitizing castration-resistant prostate cancer to androgen deprivation therapies. These data identify a significant role for HspA9 in mitochondrial ribosome function and highlight an actionable metabolic vulnerability of castration-resistant prostate cancer.
PXD027220	37092553	MKRN3 inhibits puberty onset via interaction with IGF2BP1 and regulation of hypothalamic plasticity. 	Proteomic Analysis of Mkrn3 WT vs KO mouse brain	Brain, E3 ubiquitin ligase, Precocious Puberty, TMT	Makorin ring finger protein 3 (MKRN3) was identified as an inhibitor of puberty initiation with the report of loss-of-function mutations in association with central precocious puberty. Consistent with this inhibitory role, a prepubertal decrease in Mkrn3 expression was observed in the mouse hypothalamus. Here, we investigated the mechanisms of action of MKRN3 in the central regulation of puberty onset. We showed that MKRN3 deletion in hypothalamic neurons derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells was associated with significant changes in expression of genes controlling hypothalamic development and plasticity. Mkrn3 deletion in a mouse model led to early puberty onset in female mice. We found that Mkrn3 deletion increased the number of dendritic spines in the arcuate nucleus but did not alter the morphology of GnRH neurons during postnatal development. In addition, we identified neurokinin B (NKB) as an Mkrn3 target. Using proteomics, we identified insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1) as another target of MKRN3. Interactome analysis revealed that IGF2BP1 interacted with MKRN3, along with several members of the polyadenylate-binding protein family. Our data show that one of the mechanisms by which MKRN3 inhibits pubertal initiation is through regulation of prepubertal hypothalamic development and plasticity, as well as through effects on NKB and IGF2BP1.
PXD029300	37093804	Detection of Mutant Peptides of SARS-CoV-2 Variants by LC/MS in the DDA Approach Using an In-House Database. 	Detection of mutated peptides of SARS-CoV-2 from COVID-19-infected patients	COVID-19, Mutant peptides, SARS-CoV-2	Equipped with a dramatically high mutation rate, which happens to be a signature of RNA viruses, SARS-CoV-2 trampled across the globe infecting individuals of all ages and ethnicities. As the variants of concern (VOC) loomed large, definitive detection of SARS-CoV-2 strains became a matter of utmost importance in epidemiological and clinical research. Besides, unveiling the disease pathogenesis at the molecular level and deciphering the therapeutic targets became key priorities since the emergence of the pandemic. Mass spectrometry has been largely used in this regard. A critical part of mass spectrometric analyses is the proteome database required for the identification of peptides. Presently, the mutational information on proteins available on SARS-CoV-2 databases cannot be used to analyze data extracted from mass spectrometers. Hence, we developed the novel Mutant Peptide Database (MPD) for the mass spectrometry (MS)-based identification of mutated peptides, which contains information from 11 proteins of SARS-CoV-2 from a total of 21,549 SARS-CoV-2 variants across different regions of India. The database was validated using clinical samples, and its applicability was also demonstrated with the mutated peptides extracted from the literature. We believe that MPD will support broad-spectrum MS-based studies like viral detection, disease pathogenesis, and therapeutics with respect to SARS-CoV-2 and its variants.
PXD038809	37093976	Elucidating the RNA-Protein Interactomes of Target RNAs in Tissue. 	Elucidating the RNA-protein Interactomes of Target RNAs in Tissue	MALAT1, RNA binding proteins, RNA metabolism, hybridization, interactome, lncRNA	RNA-protein interactions are key to many aspects of cellular homeostasis and their identification is important to understanding cellular function. Multiple strategies have been developed for the RNA-centric characterization of RNA-protein complexes. However, these studies have all been done in immortalized cell lines that do not capture the complexity of heterogeneous tissue samples. Here, we develop hybridization purification of RNA-protein complexes followed by mass spectrometry (HyPR-MS) for use in tissue samples. We isolated both polyadenylated RNA and the specific long noncoding RNA MALAT1 and characterized their protein interactomes. These results demonstrate the feasibility of HyPR-MS in tissue for the multiplexed characterization of specific RNA-protein complexes.
PXD029422	37094092	Beauveria bassiana rewires molecular mechanisms related to growth and defense in tomato. 	Beauveria bassiana manipulates host plant physiology to promote growth and defense	Beauveria bassiana, Mass-spectrometry, Solanum lycopersicum L., tomato leaves	Plant roots can exploit beneficial associations with soil-inhabiting microbes, promoting growth and expanding the immune capacity of the host plant. In this work, we aimed to provide new information on changes occurring in tomato interacting with the beneficial fungus Beauveria bassiana. The tomato leaf proteome revealed perturbed molecular pathways during the establishment of the plant-fungus relationship. In the early stages of colonization (5-7 d), proteins related to defense responses to the fungus were down-regulated and proteins related to calcium transport were up-regulated. At later time points (12-19 d after colonization), up-regulation of molecular pathways linked to protein/amino acid turnover and to biosynthesis of energy compounds suggests beneficial interaction enhancing plant growth and development. At the later stage, the profile of leaf hormones and related compounds was also investigated, highlighting up-regulation of those related to plant growth and defense. Finally, B. bassiana colonization was found to improve plant resistance to Botrytis cinerea, impacting plant oxidative damage. Overall, our findings further expand current knowledge on the possible mechanisms underlying the beneficial role of B. bassiana in tomato plants.
PXD033342	37094167	In situ architecture and membrane fusion of SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant. 	N-linked glycan analysis of native SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant Spike	Covid-19, N-linked glycan, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2	Among the current five Variants of Concern, infections caused by SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant are often associated with the greatest severity. Despite recent advances on the molecular basis of elevated pathogenicity using recombinant proteins, the architecture of intact Delta virions remains veiled. Moreover, pieces of molecular evidence for the detailed mechanism of S-mediated membrane fusion are missing. Here, we showed the pleomorphic nature of Delta virions from electron beam inactivated samples and reported the in situ structure and distribution of S on the authentic Delta variant. We also captured the virus-virus fusion events, which provided pieces of structural evidence for Delta's attenuated dependency on cellular factors for fusion activation, and proposed a model of S-mediated membrane fusion. Besides, site-specific glycan analysis revealed increased oligomannose-type glycosylation of native Delta S than that of the WT S. Together, these results disclose distinctive factors of Delta being the most virulent SARS-CoV-2 variant.
PXD020553	37095322	PBRM1-deficient PBAF complexes target aberrant genomic loci to activate the NF-kappaB pathway in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. 	PBRM1-deficient PBAF complexes target de novo genomic loci to activate pro-survival genes in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (BRG1 dataset)	BRG1, PBAF, PBRM1, cancer	PBRM1 encodes an accessory subunit of the PBAF SWI/SNF chromatin remodeller, and the inactivation of PBRM1 is a frequent event in kidney cancer. However, the impact of PBRM1 loss on chromatin remodelling is not well examined. Here we show that, in VHL-deficient renal tumours, PBRM1 deficiency results in ectopic PBAF complexes that localize to de novo genomic loci, activating the pro-tumourigenic NF-kappaB pathway. PBRM1-deficient PBAF complexes retain the association between SMARCA4 and ARID2, but have loosely tethered BRD7. The PBAF complexes redistribute from promoter proximal regions to distal enhancers containing NF-kappaB motifs, heightening NF-kappaB activity in PBRM1-deficient models and clinical samples. The ATPase function of SMARCA4 maintains chromatin occupancy of pre-existing and newly acquired RELA specific to PBRM1 loss, activating downstream target gene expression. Proteasome inhibitor bortezomib abrogates RELA occupancy, suppresses NF-kappaB activation and delays growth of PBRM1-deficient tumours. In conclusion, PBRM1 safeguards the chromatin by repressing aberrant liberation of pro-tumourigenic NF-kappaB target genes by residual PBRM1-deficient PBAF complexes.
PXD041424	37095490	A novel protein encoded by circRsrc1 regulates mitochondrial ribosome assembly and translation during spermatogenesis. 	Identification and quantitative proteomic analysis of a novel protein in GC-1 cell line and mouse testis.	GC-1, Protein quantification, mouse testis, novel protein	BACKGROUND: Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a large class of mammalian RNAs. Several protein products translated by circRNAs have been reported to be involved in the development of various tissues and systems; however, their physiological functions in male reproduction have yet not been explored. RESULTS: Here, we report an endogenous circRNA (circRsrc1) that encodes a novel 161-amino-acid protein which we named Rsrc1-161aa through circRNA sequencing coupled with mass spectrometry analysis on mouse testicular tissues. Deletion of Rsrc1-161aa in mice impaired male fertility with a significant decrease in sperm count and motility due to dysfunctions of mitochondrial energy metabolism. A series of in vitro rescue experiments revealed that circRsrc1 regulates mitochondrial functions via its encoded protein Rsrc1-161aa. Mechanistically, Rsrc1-161aa directly interacts with mitochondrial protein C1qbp and enhances its binding activity to mitochondrial mRNAs, thereby regulating the assembly of mitochondrial ribosomes and affecting the translation of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) proteins and mitochondrial energy metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Our studies reveal that Rsrc1-161aa protein encoded by circRsrc1 regulates mitochondrial ribosome assembly and translation during spermatogenesis, thereby affecting male fertility.
PXD027661	37095530	Positive mood-related gut microbiota in a long-term closed environment: a multiomics study based on the "Lunar Palace 365" experiment. 	Hunam gut microbiome metaproteomcis  in LP1	LP1, human gut microbiome, mood	BACKGROUND: Psychological health risk is one of the most severe and complex risks in manned deep-space exploration and long-term closed environments. Recently, with the in-depth research of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, gut microbiota has been considered a new approach to maintain and improve psychological health. However, the correlation between gut microbiota and psychological changes inside long-term closed environments is still poorly understood. Herein, we used the "Lunar Palace 365" mission, a 1-year-long isolation study in the Lunar Palace 1 (a closed manned Bioregenerative Life Support System facility with excellent performance), to investigate the correlation between gut microbiota and psychological changes, in order to find some new potential psychobiotics to maintain and improve the psychological health of crew members. RESULTS: We report some altered gut microbiota that were associated with psychological changes in the long-term closed environment. Four potential psychobiotics (Bacteroides uniformis, Roseburia inulinivorans, Eubacterium rectale, and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii) were identified. On the basis of metagenomic, metaproteomic, and metabolomic analyses, the four potential psychobiotics improved mood mainly through three pathways related to nervous system functions: first, by fermenting dietary fibers, they may produce short-chain fatty acids, such as butyric and propionic acids; second, they may regulate amino acid metabolism pathways of aspartic acid, glutamic acid, tryptophan, etc. (e.g., converting glutamic acid to gamma-aminobutyric acid; converting tryptophan to serotonin, kynurenic acid, or tryptamine); and third, they may regulate other pathways, such as taurine and cortisol metabolism. Furthermore, the results of animal experiments confirmed the positive regulatory effect and mechanism of these potential psychobiotics on mood. CONCLUSIONS: These observations reveal that gut microbiota contributed to a robust effect on the maintenance and improvement of mental health in a long-term closed environment. Our findings represent a key step towards a better understanding the role of the gut microbiome in mammalian mental health during space flight and provide a basis for future efforts to develop microbiota-based countermeasures that mitigate risks to crew mental health during future long-term human space expeditions on the moon or Mars. This study also provides an essential reference for future applications of psychobiotics to neuropsychiatric treatments. Video Abstract.
PXD037816	37096763	Utility of CYP2D6 copy number variants as prognostic biomarker in localized anal squamous cell carcinoma. 	Utility of CYP2D6 copy number variants as prognostic biomarker in localized anal squamous cell carcinoma	5FU, ASCC, Anal squamous cell carcinoma, DIA, FFPE, MMC, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, radiotherapy	BACKGROUND: Anal squamous cell carcinoma (ASCC) is an infrequent tumor whose treatment has not changed since the 1970s. The aim of this study is the identification of biomarkers allowing personalized treatments and improvement of therapeutic outcomes. METHODS: Forty-six paraffin tumor samples from ASCC patients were analyzed by whole-exome sequencing. Copy number variants (CNVs) were identified and their relation to disease-free survival (DFS) was studied and validated in an independent retrospective cohort of 101 ASCC patients from the Multidisciplinary Spanish Digestive Cancer Group (GEMCAD). GEMCAD cohort proteomics allowed assessing the biological features of these tumors. RESULTS: On the discovery cohort, the median age was 61 years old, 50% were males, stages I/II/III: 3 (7%)/16 (35%)/27 (58%), respectively, median DFS was 33 months, and overall survival was 45 months. Twenty-nine genes whose duplication was related to DFS were identified. The most representative was duplications of the CYP2D locus, including CYP2D6, CYP2D7P, and CYP2D8P genes. Patients with CYP2D6 CNV had worse DFS at 5 years than those with two CYP2D6 copies (21% vs. 84%; p < .0002, hazard ratio [HR], 5.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.7-24.9). In the GEMCAD validation cohort, patients with CYP2D6 CNV also had worse DFS at 5 years (56% vs. 87%; p = .02, HR = 3.6; 95% CI, 1.1-5.7). Mitochondria and mitochondrial cell-cycle proteins were overexpressed in patients with CYP2D6 CNV. CONCLUSIONS: Tumor CYP2D6 CNV identified patients with a significantly worse DFS at 5 years among localized ASCC patients treated with 5-fluorouracil, mitomycin C, and radiotherapy. Proteomics pointed out mitochondria and mitochondrial cell-cycle genes as possible therapeutic targets for these high-risk patients. PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Anal squamous cell carcinoma is an infrequent tumor whose treatment has not been changed since the 1970s. However, disease-free survival in late staged tumors is between 40% and 70%. The presence of an alteration in the number of copies of CYP2D6 gene is a biomarker of worse disease-free survival. The analysis of the proteins in these high-risk patients pointed out mitochondria and mitochondrial cell-cycle genes as possible therapeutic targets. Therefore, the determination of the number of copies of CYP2D6 allows the identification of anal squamous carcinoma patients with a high-risk of relapse that could be redirected to a clinical trial. Additionally, this study may be useful to suggest new treatment strategies to increase current therapy efficacy.
PXD034925	37097202	Quantitative Proteomics for the Development and Manufacturing of Human-Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Neural Stem Cells Using Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry. 	Quantitative proteomics for efficient differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells into neural stem cells using data independent acquisition mass spectrometry.	DIA-MS, Neural differentiation, Neural stem cells, iPS cells	Human-induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neural stem cells (NSCs) have several potential applications in regenerative medicine. A deep understanding of stem cell characteristics is critical for developing appropriate products for use in the clinic. This study aimed to develop approaches for characterizing iPSC-derived NSCs. Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) was used to obtain temporal proteomic profiles of differentiating cells. Principal component analysis of the proteome profiles allowed for the discrimination of cells cultured for different periods. Cells were characterized by Gene Ontology analysis to annotate the upregulated proteins based on their functions. We found that trophoblast glycoprotein (TPBG), a membrane glycoprotein that inhibits the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, was elevated in NSC and that silencing TPBG promoted proliferation rather than neuronal differentiation. Treatment with Wnt/beta-catenin pathway activators and inhibitors showed that modulating the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway is crucial for differentiation into NSC. These results suggest that the level of TPBG is critical for differentiation into NSC, and TPBG is a potentially critical quality attribute of differentiating cells. In summary, DIA-MS-based proteomics is a promising multi-attribute method for characterizing stem cell-derived products.
PXD041271	37097255	Automated Enrichment of Phosphotyrosine Peptides for High-Throughput Proteomics. 	Automated Enrichment of Phosphotyrosine Peptides for High-Throughput Proteomics	HeLa, KingFisher, Orbitrap Eclipse, Orbitrap Exploris 480, Phosphotyrosine enrichment	Phosphotyrosine (pY) enrichment is critical for expanding the fundamental and clinical understanding of cellular signaling by mass spectrometry-based proteomics. However, current pY enrichment methods exhibit a high cost per sample and limited reproducibility due to expensive affinity reagents and manual processing. We present rapid-robotic phosphotyrosine proteomics (R2-pY), which uses a magnetic particle processor and pY superbinders or antibodies. R2-pY can handle up to 96 samples in parallel, requires 2 days to go from cell lysate to mass spectrometry injections, and results in global proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and tyrosine-specific phosphoproteomic samples. We benchmark the method on HeLa cells stimulated with pervanadate and serum and report over 4000 unique pY sites from 1 mg of peptide input, strong reproducibility between replicates, and phosphopeptide enrichment efficiencies above 99%. R2-pY extends our previously reported R2-P2 proteomic and global phosphoproteomic sample preparation framework, opening the door to large-scale studies of pY signaling in concert with global proteome and phosphoproteome profiling.
PXD035511	37097733	Material Stiffness in Cooperation with Macrophage Paracrine Signals Determines the Tenogenic Differentiation of Mesenchymal Stem Cells. 	The data of protein expression of hMSCs in Soft, Medium and Stiff group	stem cell, stiffness, tenogenic differentiation	Stiffness is an important physical property of biomaterials that determines stem cell fate. Guiding stem cell differentiation via stiffness modulation has been considered in tissue engineering. However, the mechanism by which material stiffness regulates stem cell differentiation into the tendon lineage remains controversial. Increasing evidence demonstrates that immune cells interact with implanted biomaterials and regulate stem cell behaviors via paracrine signaling; however, the role of this mechanism in tendon differentiation is not clear. In this study, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) substrates with different stiffnesses are developed, and the tenogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) exposed to different stiffnesses and macrophage paracrine signals is investigated. The results reveal that lower stiffnesses facilitates tenogenic differentiation of MSCs, while macrophage paracrine signals at these stiffnesses suppress the differentiation. When exposed to these two stimuli, MSCs still exhibit enhanced tendon differentiation, which is further elucidated by global proteomic analysis. Following subcutaneous implantation in rats for 2 weeks, soft biomaterial induces only low inflammation and promotes tendon-like tissue formation. In conclusion, the study demonstrates that soft, rather than stiff, material has a greater potential to guide tenogenic differentiation of stem cells, which provides comprehensive evidence for optimized bioactive scaffold design in tendon tissue engineering.
PXD028462	37098122	MICU1 regulates mitochondrial cristae structure and function independently of the mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter channel. 	Identifying global and mtCU independent MICU1 interactome utilizing BioID2 based proximity labeling and screening	bioid2, calcium, mcu, micu1, mitochondria, proximity-labelling	MICU1 is a calcium (Ca(2+))-binding protein that regulates the mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter channel complex (mtCU) and mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake. MICU1 knockout mice display disorganized mitochondrial architecture, a phenotype that is distinct from that of mice with deficiencies in other mtCU subunits and, thus, is likely not explained by changes in mitochondrial matrix Ca(2+) content. Using proteomic and cellular imaging techniques, we found that MICU1 localized to the mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS) and directly interacted with the MICOS components MIC60 and CHCHD2 independently of the mtCU. We demonstrated that MICU1 was essential for MICOS complex formation and that MICU1 ablation resulted in altered cristae organization, mitochondrial ultrastructure, mitochondrial membrane dynamics, and cell death signaling. Together, our results suggest that MICU1 is an intermembrane space Ca(2+) sensor that modulates mitochondrial membrane dynamics independently of matrix Ca(2+) uptake. This system enables distinct Ca(2+) signaling in the mitochondrial matrix and at the intermembrane space to modulate cellular energetics and cell death in a concerted manner.
PXD036303	37099381	A potential histone-chaperone activity for the MIER1 histone deacetylase complex. 	An unexpected histone-binding activity for the MIER1 histone deacetylase complex suggests a potential chaperone function.	Histone, deacetylase, methylation	Histone deacetylases 1 and 2 (HDAC1/2) serve as the catalytic subunit of six distinct families of nuclear complexes. These complexes repress gene transcription through removing acetyl groups from lysine residues in histone tails. In addition to the deacetylase subunit, these complexes typically contain transcription factor and/or chromatin binding activities. The MIER:HDAC complex has hitherto been poorly characterized. Here, we show that MIER1 unexpectedly co-purifies with an H2A:H2B histone dimer. We show that MIER1 is also able to bind a complete histone octamer. Intriguingly, we found that a larger MIER1:HDAC1:BAHD1:C1QBP complex additionally co-purifies with an intact nucleosome on which H3K27 is either di- or tri-methylated. Together this suggests that the MIER1 complex acts downstream of PRC2 to expand regions of repressed chromatin and could potentially deposit histone octamer onto nucleosome-depleted regions of DNA.
PXD037185	37099450	Profiling Plant Proteome and Transcriptome Changes during Grapevine Fanleaf Virus Infection. 	: Proteomic analysis of Nicotiana benthamiana upon infection of grapevine fanleaf virus strains	grapevine, plant, tobacco, virus	Viruses can elicit varying types and severities of symptoms during plant host infection. We investigated changes in the proteome and transcriptome of Nicotiana benthamiana plants infected by grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) with an emphasis on vein clearing symptom development. Comparative, time-course liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and 3' ribonucleic acid sequencing analyses of plants infected by two wildtype GFLV strains, one symptomatic and one asymptomatic, and their asymptomatic mutant strains carrying a single amino acid change in the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP) were conducted to identify host biochemical pathways involved in viral symptom development. During peak vein clearing symptom display at 7 days post-inoculation (dpi), protein and gene ontologies related to immune response, gene regulation, and secondary metabolite production were overrepresented when contrasting wildtype GFLV strain GHu and mutant GHu-1EK802G(Pol). Prior to the onset of symptom development at 4 dpi and when symptoms faded away at 12 dpi, protein and gene ontologies related to chitinase activity, hypersensitive response, and transcriptional regulation were identified. This systems biology approach highlighted how a single amino acid of a plant viral RdRP mediates changes to the host proteome (~1%) and transcriptome (~8.5%) related to transient vein clearing symptoms and the network of pathways involved in the virus-host arms race.
PXD027357	37101405	Metabololipidomic and proteomic profiling reveals aberrant macrophage activation and interrelated immunomodulatory mediator release during aging. 	Impaired M2 macrophage polarization in aging shifts the lipidome to pro-inflammatory mediators driving chronic inflammation and impairing tissue maintenance	aging, differentiation, immune system, macrophages	Macrophages adapt distinct pro-inflammatory (M1-like) and pro-resolving (M2-like) phenotypes with specific tasks in the immune response and tissue homeostasis. Altered macrophage responses with age are causative for unresolved inflammation, so-called inflammaging, and lead to higher infection susceptibility with unfavorable progression. Here, we reveal molecular determinants of age-related changes in phenotypic functions of murine peritoneal macrophages (PM) by employing comprehensive mass spectrometry-based proteomics (4746 protein groups) and metabololipidomics (>40 lipid mediators). Divergent expression of various macrophage-specific marker proteins and signaling pathways indicates aberrant PM phenotypes in old mice which detrimentally impact their capabilities to release immunomodulatory chemokines and cytokines. We show that aging strikingly compromises the polarization process of macrophages to adapt either pro-inflammatory or pro-resolving phenotypes, thereby yielding aberrant and afunctional macrophage subtypes that cannot be readily assigned to either a typical M1 or M2 phenotype. In particular, the phenotypic adaptation of the bacteria-challenged metabololipidome in macrophages related to inflammation is severely limited by age, which persists across ex vivo polarization towards M1 and M2a macrophages. Our results establish distinct age-associated PM phenotypes outside of the simplified M1 and M2 dichotomy and challenge the dogma of increased pro-inflammatory macrophage pre-activation due to aging by revealing maladaptive functions throughout all phases of inflammation, including resolution.
PXD033430	37101412	Dysregulated cellular redox status during hyperammonemia causes mitochondrial dysfunction and senescence by inhibiting sirtuin-mediated deacetylation. 	Dysregulated cellular redox status during hyperammonemia causes mitochondrial dysfunction by inhibiting sirtuin mediated deacetylation	Sirtuin, hyperacetylation, mitochondria, multiomic, redox ratio	Perturbed metabolism of ammonia, an endogenous cytotoxin, causes mitochondrial dysfunction, reduced NAD(+) /NADH (redox) ratio, and postmitotic senescence. Sirtuins are NAD(+) -dependent deacetylases that delay senescence. In multiomics analyses, NAD metabolism and sirtuin pathways are enriched during hyperammonemia. Consistently, NAD(+) -dependent Sirtuin3 (Sirt3) expression and deacetylase activity were decreased, and protein acetylation was increased in human and murine skeletal muscle/myotubes. Global acetylomics and subcellular fractions from myotubes showed hyperammonemia-induced hyperacetylation of cellular signaling and mitochondrial proteins. We dissected the mechanisms and consequences of hyperammonemia-induced NAD metabolism by complementary genetic and chemical approaches. Hyperammonemia inhibited electron transport chain components, specifically complex I that oxidizes NADH to NAD(+) , that resulted in lower redox ratio. Ammonia also caused mitochondrial oxidative dysfunction, lower mitochondrial NAD(+) -sensor Sirt3, protein hyperacetylation, and postmitotic senescence. Mitochondrial-targeted Lactobacillus brevis NADH oxidase (MitoLbNOX), but not NAD+ precursor nicotinamide riboside, reversed ammonia-induced oxidative dysfunction, electron transport chain supercomplex disassembly, lower ATP and NAD(+) content, protein hyperacetylation, Sirt3 dysfunction and postmitotic senescence in myotubes. Even though Sirt3 overexpression reversed ammonia-induced hyperacetylation, lower redox status or mitochondrial oxidative dysfunction were not reversed. These data show that acetylation is a consequence of, but is not the mechanism of, lower redox status or oxidative dysfunction during hyperammonemia. Targeting NADH oxidation is a potential approach to reverse and potentially prevent ammonia-induced postmitotic senescence in skeletal muscle. Since dysregulated ammonia metabolism occurs with aging, and NAD(+) biosynthesis is reduced in sarcopenia, our studies provide a biochemical basis for cellular senescence and have relevance in multiple tissues.
PXD034000	37102148	A human skeletal muscle stem/myotube model reveals multiple signaling targets of cancer secretome in skeletal muscle. 	Mechanisms associated with systemic effects of cancer	LC-MSMS., biomarker, breast cancer, cancer cell line, miR-486, muscle stem cells, skeletal muscle	Skeletal muscle dysfunction or reprogramming due to the effects of the cancer secretome is observed in multiple malignancies. Although mouse models are routinely used to study skeletal muscle defects in cancer, because of species specificity of certain cytokines/chemokines in the secretome, a human model system is required. Here, we establish simplified multiple skeletal muscle stem cell lines (hMuSCs), which can be differentiated into myotubes. Using single nuclei ATAC-seq (snATAC-seq) and RNA-seq (snRNA-seq), we document chromatin accessibility and transcriptomic changes associated with the transition of hMuSCs to myotubes. Cancer secretome accelerated stem to myotube differentiation, altered the alternative splicing machinery and increased inflammatory, glucocorticoid receptor, and wound healing pathways in hMuSCs. Additionally, cancer secretome reduced metabolic and survival pathway associated miR-486, AKT, and p53 signaling in hMuSCs. hMuSCs underwent myotube differentiation when engrafted into NSG mice and thus providing a humanized in vivo skeletal muscle model system to study cancer cachexia.
PXD027361	37104196	Multilevel Comparison of Indian Naja Venoms and Their Cross-Reactivity with Indian Polyvalent Antivenoms. 	Compositional analysis of venom in three species of Indian cobra (Naja) and their cross-reactivity with Indian polyvalent Antivenom	Naja kaouthia, Naja naja, Naja oxiana, Polyvalent antivenom, Snakebites, Thermofisher  Qexactive HF, antivenomics, venom variation, venomics	Snake envenoming is caused by many biological species, rather than a single infectious agent, each with a multiplicity of toxins in their venom. Hence, developing effective treatments is challenging, especially in biodiverse and biogeographically complex countries such as India. The present study represents the first genus-wide proteomics analysis of venom composition across Naja species (N. naja, N. oxiana, and N. kaouthia) found in mainland India. Venom proteomes were consistent between individuals from the same localities in terms of the toxin families present, but not in the relative abundance of those in the venom. There appears to be more compositional variation among N. naja from different locations than among N. kaouthia. Immunoblotting and in vitro neutralization assays indicated cross-reactivity with Indian polyvalent antivenom, in which antibodies raised against N. naja are present. However, we observed ineffective neutralization of PLA2 activities of N. naja venoms from locations distant from the source of immunizing venoms. Antivenom immunoprofiling by antivenomics revealed differential antigenicity of venoms from N. kaouthia and N. oxiana, and poor reactivity towards 3FTxs and PLA2s. Moreover, there was considerable variation between antivenoms from different manufacturers. These data indicate that improvements to antivenom manufacturing in India are highly desirable.
PXD040764	37104204	Proteomics of Vespa velutina nigrithorax Venom Sac Queens and Workers: A Quantitative SWATH-MS Analysis. 	Venom Proteomics of Vespa velutina nigrithorax (Hym.: Vespidae) Queens and Workers: A Quantitative SWATH-MS Analysis	Allergy., Asian hornet, Hymenopteran, SWATH-MS, Venom, Vespa spp., Vespa velutina nigrithorax	Health risks caused by stings from Vespa velutina nigrithorax (VV), also known as the yellow-legged Asian hornet, have become a public concern, but little is known about its venom composition. This study presents the proteome profile of the VV's venom sac (VS) based on Sequential Window Acquisition of all Theoretical Mass Spectra (SWATH-MS). The study also performed proteomic quantitative analysis and examined the biological pathways and molecular functions of the proteins in the VS of VV gynes (i.e., future queens [SQ]) and workers [SW]. The total protein content per VS was significantly higher in the SW than in the SQ (274 +/- 54 microg/sac vs. 175 +/- 22 microg/sac; p = 0.02). We quantified a total of 228 proteins in the VS, belonging to 7 different classes: Insecta (n = 191); Amphibia and Reptilia (n = 20); Bacilli, gamma-Proteobacteria and Pisoniviricetes (n = 12); and Arachnida (n = 5). Among the 228 identified proteins, 66 showed significant differential expression between SQ and SW. The potential allergens hyaluronidase A, venom antigen 5 and phospholipase A1 were significantly downregulated in the SQ venom.
PXD040418	37104448	Urinary Proteins of Female Domestic Dog (Canis familiaris) during Ovarian Cycle. 	Proteomic evaluation of urine of the female of domestic dog (Canis familiaris), during different stages of ovarian cycle	cycle, dog, estrus, urine	The presence and identity of non-volatile chemical signals remain elusive in canines. In this study, we aim to evaluate the urinary proteins of female domestic dogs in the estrus and anestrus phases to evidence the presence of non-volatile chemical signals and to elucidate their identities. We collected urine samples from eight female dogs in the estrus and anestrus phases. A total of 240 proteins were identified in the urine samples using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS analysis). The comparison of the proteins revealed a significant difference between the estrus and anestrus urine. We identified proteins belonging to the lipocalin family of canines (beta-lactoglobulin-1 and beta-lactoglobulin-2, P33685 and P33686, respectively), one of whose function was the transport of pheromones and which was present only in the estrus urine samples. Moreover, proteins such as Clusterin (CLU), Liver-expressed antimicrobial peptide 2 (LEAP2), and Proenkephalin (PENK) were more abundant in the estrus urine when compared to the anestrus urine. LEAP2 was recently described as a ghrelin receptor antagonist and implicated in regulating food intake and body weight in humans and mice. Proenkephalin, a polypeptide hormone cleaved into opioid peptides, was also recognized as a candidate to determine kidney function. As of yet, none of these have played a role in chemical communication. Clusterin, an extracellular chaperone protecting from protein aggregation implicated in stress-induced cell apoptosis, is a plausible candidate in chemical communication, which is a claim that needs to be ascertained further. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD040418.
PXD019266	37105170	Vascular cells improve functionality of human cardiac organoids. 	Proteomics of vascularized cardiac organoids	cardioac organoids, endothelial cells	Crosstalk between cardiac cells is critical for heart performance. Here we show that vascular cells within human cardiac organoids (hCOs) enhance their maturation, force of contraction, and utility in disease modeling. Herein we optimize our protocol to generate vascular populations in addition to epicardial, fibroblast, and cardiomyocyte cells that self-organize into in-vivo-like structures in hCOs. We identify mechanisms of communication between endothelial cells, pericytes, fibroblasts, and cardiomyocytes that ultimately contribute to cardiac organoid maturation. In particular, (1) endothelial-derived LAMA5 regulates expression of mature sarcomeric proteins and contractility, and (2) paracrine platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRbeta) signaling from vascular cells upregulates matrix deposition to augment hCO contractile force. Finally, we demonstrate that vascular cells determine the magnitude of diastolic dysfunction caused by inflammatory factors and identify a paracrine role of endothelin driving dysfunction. Together this study highlights the importance and role of vascular cells in organoid models.
PXD038645	37105983	Generating Detailed Spectral Libraries for Canine Proteomes Obtained from Serum and Urine. 	Proteomic profiling of canine (dog) serum and urine	Canis lupus familiaris, Serum, Spectrum library, Urine	Domestic dogs (Canis lupus familiaris) are popular companion animals. Increase in medical expenses associated with them and demand for extending their lifespan in a healthy manner has created the need to develop new diagnostic technology. Companion dogs also serve as important animal models for non-clinical research as they can provide various biological phenotypes. Proteomics have been increasingly used on dogs and humans to identify novel biomarkers of various diseases. Despite the growing applications of proteomics in liquid biopsy in veterinary medicine, no publicly available spectral assay libraries have been created for the proteome of canine serum and urine. In this study, we generated spectral assay libraries for the two-representative liquid-biopsy samples using mid-pH fractionation that allows in-depth understanding of proteome coverage. The resultant canine serum and urine spectral assay libraries include 1,132 and 4,749 protein groups and 5,483 and 25,228 peptides, respectively. We built these complimentary accessible resources for proteomic biomarker discovery studies through ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD034770.
PXD040806	37105989	DNA polymerase POLD1 promotes proliferation and metastasis of bladder cancer by stabilizing MYC. 	DNA polymerase POLD1 promotes proliferation and metastasis of bladder cancer by stabilizing MYC	Bladder cancer (BLCA), DNA polymerase delta (POLD1), FBXW7, MYC, Ubiquitination degradation.	To date, most studies on the DNA polymerase, POLD1, have focused on the effect of POLD1 inactivation mutations in tumors. However, the implications of high POLD1 expression in tumorigenesis remains elusive. Here, we determine that POLD1 has a pro-carcinogenic role in bladder cancer (BLCA) and is associated to the malignancy and prognosis of BLCA. Our studies demonstrate that POLD1 promotes the proliferation and metastasis of BLCA via MYC. Mechanistically, POLD1 stabilizes MYC in a manner independent of its' DNA polymerase activity. Instead, POLD1 attenuates FBXW7-mediated ubiquitination degradation of MYC by directly binding to the MYC homology box 1 domain competitively with FBXW7. Moreover, we find that POLD1 forms a complex with MYC to promote the transcriptional activity of MYC. In turn, MYC increases expression of POLD1, forming a POLD1-MYC positive feedback loop to enhance the pro-carcinogenic effect of POLD1-MYC on BLCA. Overall, our study identifies POLD1 as a promotor of BCLA via a MYC driven mechanism and suggest its potential as biomarker for BLCA.
PXD036611	37105991	Cryo-EM structures of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense ISG65 with human complement C3 and C3b and their roles in alternative pathway restriction. 	Human complement factor 3 LC-MS/MS	C3, Human serum, complement	African Trypanosomes have developed elaborate mechanisms to escape the adaptive immune response, but little is known about complement evasion particularly at the early stage of infection. Here we show that ISG65 of the human-infective parasite Trypanosoma brucei gambiense is a receptor for human complement factor C3 and its activation fragments and that it takes over a role in selective inhibition of the alternative pathway C5 convertase and thus abrogation of the terminal pathway. No deposition of C4b, as part of the classical and lectin pathway convertases, was detected on trypanosomes. We present the cryo-electron microscopy (EM) structures of native C3 and C3b in complex with ISG65 which reveal a set of modes of complement interaction. Based on these findings, we propose a model for receptor-ligand interactions as they occur at the plasma membrane of blood-stage trypanosomes and may facilitate innate immune escape of the parasite.
PXD031578	37106019	A widely applicable and cost-effective method for specific RNA-protein complex isolation. 	A universal and cost-effective method for general and specific RNA-protein complex isolation_RBPome	RBPome isolation, SAPS	Although methodological advances have been made over the past years, a widely applicable, easily scalable and cost-effective procedure that can be routinely used to isolate specific ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) remains elusive. We describe the "Silica-based Acidic Phase Separation (SAPS)-capture" workflow. This versatile method combines previously described techniques in a cost-effective, optimal and widely applicable protocol. The specific RNP isolation procedure is performed on a pre-purified RNP sample instead of cell lysate. This combination of protocols results in an increased RNP/bead ratio and by consequence a reduced experimental cost. To validate the method, the 18S rRNP of S. cerevisiae was captured and to illustrate its applicability we isolated the complete repertoire of RNPs in A. thaliana. The procedure we describe can provide the community with a powerful tool to advance the study of the ribonome of a specific RNA molecule in any organism or tissue type.
PXD039229	37106095	Spatiotemporal and global profiling of DNA-protein interactions enables discovery of low-affinity transcription factors. 	Spatiotemporal and global profiling of DNA-protein interactions enables discovery of low-affinity transcription factors	DNA-protein interaction, Spatiotemporal, crosslinking, transcription factor	Precise dissection of DNA-protein interactions is essential for elucidating the recognition basis, dynamics and gene regulation mechanism. However, global profiling of weak and dynamic DNA-protein interactions remains a long-standing challenge. Here, we establish the light-induced lysine (K) enabled crosslinking (LIKE-XL) strategy for spatiotemporal and global profiling of DNA-protein interactions. Harnessing unique abilities to capture weak and transient DNA-protein interactions, we demonstrate that LIKE-XL enables the discovery of low-affinity transcription-factor/DNA interactions via sequence-specific DNA baits, determining the binding sites for transcription factors that have been previously unknown. More importantly, we successfully decipher the dynamics of the transcription factor subproteome in response to drug treatment in a time-resolved manner, and find downstream target transcription factors from drug perturbations, providing insight into their dynamic transcriptional networks. The LIKE-XL strategy offers a complementary method to expand the DNA-protein profiling toolbox and map accurate DNA-protein interactomes that were previously inaccessible via non-covalent strategies, for better understanding of protein function in health and disease.
PXD039766	37106808	Secretome Screening of BRAFV600E-Mutated Colon Cancer Cells Resistant to Vemurafenib. 	The secretome features associated with the development of re-sistance to vemurafenib in BRAFV600E mutated colon cancer cells	BRAF inhibition, BRAFV600E, DNA replication, ER stress, HSPA5/ GRP78, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, RPA1, chemoresistance, colon cancer, secretome, vemurafenib	Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) carrying BRAFV600E mutation have worse response to chemotherapy and poor prognosis. The BRAFV600E inhibitor vemurafenib has shown modest efficacy as monotherapy in BRAF-mutated mCRC due to the development of resistance. The aim of this study was to conduct a comparative proteomics profiling of the secretome from vemurafenib-sensitive vs. -resistant colon cancer cells harboring BRAFV600E mutation in order to identify specific secretory features potentially associated with changes in the resistant cells' phenotype. Towards this aim, we employed two complementary proteomics approaches including two-dimensional gel electrophoresis coupled with MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometry and label-free quantitative LC-MS/MS analysis. Obtained results pointed to aberrant regulation of DNA replication and endoplasmic reticulum stress as the major secretome features associated with chemoresistant phenotype. Accordingly, two proteins implicated in these processes including RPA1 and HSPA5/GRP78 were discussed in more details in the context of biological networks and their importance as potential secretome targets for further functional and clinical evaluation. Expression patterns of RPA1 and HSPA5/GRP78 in tumor tissues from colon cancer patients were also found in additional in silico analyses to be associated with BRAFV600E mutation status, which opens the possibility to extrapolate our findings and their clinical implication to other solid tumors harboring BRAFV600E mutation, such as melanoma.
PXD039132	37107161	Large-Scale Qualitative and Quantitative Assessment of Dityrosine Crosslinking Omics in Response to Endogenous and Exogenous Hydrogen Peroxide in Escherichia coli. 	Large-scale qualitative and quantitative research of dityrosine crosslinking omics in Escherichia coli	Dityrosine crosslinking, Hydrogen peroxide, Label-free proteomics	Excessive hydrogen peroxide causes oxidative stress in cells. The oxidation of two tyrosine residues in proteins can generate o,o'-dityrosine, a putative biomarker for protein oxidation, which plays critical roles in a variety of organisms. Thus far, few studies have investigated dityrosine crosslinking under endogenous or exogenous oxidative conditions at the proteome level, and its physiological function remains largely unknown. In this study, to investigate qualitative and quantitative dityrosine crosslinking, two mutant Escherichia coli strains and one mutant strain supplemented with H2O2 were used as models for endogenous and exogenous oxidative stress, respectively. By integrating high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and bioinformatic analysis, we created the largest dityrosine crosslinking dataset in E. coli to date, identifying 71 dityrosine crosslinks and 410 dityrosine loop links on 352 proteins. The dityrosine-linked proteins are mainly involved in taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, citrate cycle, glyoxylate, dicarboxylate metabolism, carbon metabolism, etc., suggesting that dityrosine crosslinking may play a critical role in regulating the metabolic pathways in response to oxidative stress. In conclusion, we have reported the most comprehensive dityrosine crosslinking in E. coli for the first time, which is of great significance in revealing its function in oxidative stress.
PXD040890	37107167	An Electrophysiological and Proteomic Analysis of the Effects of the Superoxide Dismutase Mimetic, MnTMPyP, on Synaptic Signalling Post-Ischemia in Isolated Rat Hippocampal Slices. 	An electrophysiological and proteomic analysis of the effects of the superoxide dismutase mimetic, MnTMPyP, on synaptic signalling post ischemia in isolated rat hippocampal slices.	EPSP, Hippocampus, Hypoxia, Ischemia reperfusion injury, MnTMPyP, Oxidative stress, Oxygen glucose deprivation, Synaptic transmission, superoxide dismutase, synaptic plasticity	Metabolic stress and the increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are two main contributors to neuronal damage and synaptic plasticity in acute ischemic stroke. The superoxide scavenger MnTMPyP has been previously reported to have a neuroprotective effect in organotypic hippocampal slices and to modulate synaptic transmission after in vitro hypoxia and oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). However, the mechanisms involved in the effect of this scavenger remain elusive. In this study, two concentrations of MnTMPyP were evaluated on synaptic transmission during ischemia and post-ischemic synaptic potentiation. The complex molecular changes supporting cellular adaptation to metabolic stress, and how these are modulated by MnTMPyP, were also investigated. Electrophysiological data showed that MnTMPyP causes a decrease in baseline synaptic transmission and impairment of synaptic potentiation. Proteomic analysis performed on MnTMPyP and hypoxia-treated tissue indicated an impairment in vesicular trafficking mechanisms, including reduced expression of Hsp90 and actin signalling. Alterations of vesicular trafficking may lead to reduced probability of neurotransmitter release and AMPA receptor activity, resulting in the observed modulatory effect of MnTMPyP. In OGD, protein enrichment analysis highlighted impairments in cell proliferation and differentiation, such as TGFbeta1 and CDKN1B signalling, in addition to downregulation of mitochondrial dysfunction and an increased expression of CAMKII. Taken together, our results may indicate modulation of neuronal sensitivity to the ischemic insult, and a complex role for MnTMPyP in synaptic transmission and plasticity, potentially providing molecular insights into the mechanisms mediating the effects of MnTMPyP during ischemia.
PXD040011	37107182	O-GlcNAcylation Is Required for the Survival of Cerebellar Purkinje Cells by Inhibiting ROS Generation. 	Cerebellum PC O-GlcNAcylation TMT analysis	Cerebellum, LC-MS, O-GlcNAc, Purkinje cell	Purkinje cells (PCs), as a unique type of neurons output from the cerebellar cortex, are essential for the development and physiological function of the cerebellum. However, the intricate mechanisms underlying the maintenance of Purkinje cells are unclear. The O-GlcNAcylation (O-GlcNAc) of proteins is an emerging regulator of brain function that maintains normal development and neuronal circuity. In this study, we demonstrate that the O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) in PCs maintains the survival of PCs. Furthermore, a loss of OGT in PCs induces severe ataxia, extensor rigidity and posture abnormalities in mice. Mechanistically, OGT regulates the survival of PCs by inhibiting the generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS). These data reveal a critical role of O-GlcNAc signaling in the survival and maintenance of cerebellar PCs.
PXD041347	37107313	Bacillus subtilis YtpP and Thioredoxin A Are New Players in the Coenzyme-A-Mediated Defense Mechanism against Cellular Stress. 	Bacillus subtilis YtpP and thioredoxin A are new players in the CoA-mediated defense mechanism against cellular stress	Bacillus megaterium, Bacillus subtilis, Coenzyme A, antioxidant, mixed-disulfide, oxidative stress, protein CoAlation, protein deCoAlation	Coenzyme A (CoA) is an important cellular metabolite that is critical for metabolic processes and the regulation of gene expression. Recent discovery of the antioxidant function of CoA has highlighted its protective role that leads to the formation of a mixed disulfide bond with protein cysteines, which is termed protein CoAlation. To date, more than 2000 CoAlated bacterial and mammalian proteins have been identified in cellular responses to oxidative stress, with the majority being involved in metabolic pathways (60%). Studies have shown that protein CoAlation is a widespread post-translational modification which modulates the activity and conformation of the modified proteins. The induction of protein CoAlation by oxidative stress was found to be rapidly reversed after the removal of oxidizing agents from the medium of cultured cells. In this study, we developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-based deCoAlation assay to detect deCoAlation activity from Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus megaterium lysates. We then used a combination of ELISA-based assay and purification strategies to show that deCoAlation is an enzyme-driven mechanism. Using mass-spectrometry and deCoAlation assays, we identified B. subtilis YtpP (thioredoxin-like protein) and thioredoxin A (TrxA) as enzymes that can remove CoA from different substrates. With mutagenesis studies, we identified YtpP and TrxA catalytic cysteine residues and proposed a possible deCoAlation mechanism for CoAlated methionine sulfoxide reducatse A (MsrA) and peroxiredoxin 5 (PRDX5) proteins, which results in the release of both CoA and the reduced form of MsrA or PRDX5. Overall, this paper reveals the deCoAlation activity of YtpP and TrxA and opens doors to future studies on the CoA-mediated redox regulation of CoAlated proteins under various cellular stress conditions.
PXD039572	37107593	SLC38A10 Deficiency in Mice Affects Plasma Levels of Threonine and Histidine in Males but Not in Females: A Preliminary Characterization Study of SLC38A10(-/-) Mice. 	Proteomic study of whole brain in SNAT10 deficient mice	SNAT10, Slc38a10, amino acid transporter	Solute carriers belong to the biggest group of transporters in the human genome, but more knowledge is needed to fully understand their function and possible role as therapeutic targets. SLC38A10, a poorly characterized solute carrier, is preliminary characterized here. By using a knockout mouse model, we studied the biological effects of SLC38A10 deficiency in vivo. We performed a transcriptomic analysis of the whole brain and found seven differentially expressed genes in SLC38A10-deficient mice (Gm48159, Nr4a1, Tuba1c, Lrrc56, mt-Tp, Hbb-bt and Snord116/9). By measuring amino acids in plasma, we found lower levels of threonine and histidine in knockout males, whereas no amino acid levels were affected in females, suggesting that SLC38A10(-/-) might affect sexes differently. Using RT-qPCR, we investigated the effect of SLC38A10 deficiency on mRNA expression of other SLC38 members, Mtor and Rps6kb1 in the brain, liver, lung, muscle, and kidney, but no differences were found. Relative telomere length measurement was also taken, as a marker for cellular age, but no differences were found between the genotypes. We conclude that SLC38A10 might be important for keeping amino acid homeostasis in plasma, at least in males, but no major effects were seen on transcriptomic expression or telomere length in the whole brain.
PXD025581	37108203	Analysis of Ku70 S155 Phospho-Specific BioID2 Interactome Identifies Ku Association with TRIP12 in Response to DNA Damage. 	Screening for Ku70 phosphoS155-dependent proximal proteins	BioID2, Ku70, LC-ESI-MS/MS, S155, T-REx 293	The Ku heterodimer, composed of subunits Ku70 and Ku80, is known for its essential role in repairing double-stranded DNA breaks via non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). We previously identified Ku70 S155 as a novel phosphorylation site within the von Willebrand A-like (vWA) domain of Ku70 and documented an altered DNA damage response in cells expressing a Ku70 S155D phosphomimetic mutant. Here, we conducted proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID2) screening using wild-type Ku70, Ku70 S155D mutant, and Ku70 with a phosphoablative substitution (S155A) to identify Ku70 S155D-specific candidate proteins that may rely on this phosphorylation event. Using the BioID2 screen with multiple filtering approaches, we compared the protein interactor candidate lists for Ku70 S155D and S155A. TRIP12 was exclusive to the Ku70 S155D list, considered a high confidence interactor based on SAINTexpress analysis, and appeared in all three biological replicates of the Ku70 S155D-BioID2 mass spectrometry results. Using proximity ligation assays (PLA), we demonstrated a significantly increased association between Ku70 S155D-HA and TRIP12 compared to wild-type Ku70-HA cells. In addition, we were able to demonstrate a robust PLA signal between endogenous Ku70 and TRIP12 in the presence of double-stranded DNA breaks. Finally, co-immunoprecipitation analyses showed an enhanced interaction between TRIP12 and Ku70 upon treatment with ionizing radiation, suggesting a direct or indirect association in response to DNA damage. Altogether, these results suggest an association between Ku70 phospho-S155 and TRIP12.
PXD037902	37108327	Secreted Amyloid Precursor Protein Alpha (sAPPalpha) Regulates the Cellular Proteome and Secretome of Mouse Primary Astrocytes. 	The brain protein secreted amyloid precursor protein alpha (sAPPalpha) regulates neurologically-important proteins of the cellular proteome and secretome of mouse primary astrocytes	Amyloid Precuror Protein, Astrocytes, secretome	Secreted amyloid precursor protein alpha (sAPPalpha), processed from a parent mammalian brain protein, amyloid precursor protein, can modulate learning and memory. Recently it has been shown to modulate the transcriptome and proteome of human neurons, including proteins with neurological functions. Here, we analysed whether the acute administration of sAPPalpha facilitated changes in the proteome and secretome of mouse primary astrocytes in culture. Astrocytes contribute to the neuronal processes of neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity. Cortical mouse astrocytes in culture were exposed to 1 nM sAPPalpha, and changes in both the whole-cell proteome (2 h) and the secretome (6 h) were identified with Sequential Window Acquisition of All Theoretical Fragment Ion Spectra-Mass Spectrometry (SWATH-MS). Differentially regulated proteins were identified in both the cellular proteome and secretome that are involved with neurologically related functions of the normal physiology of the brain and central nervous system. Groups of proteins have a relationship to APP and have roles in the modulation of cell morphology, vesicle dynamics and the myelin sheath. Some are related to pathways containing proteins whose genes have been previously implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The secretome is also enriched in proteins related to Insulin Growth Factor 2 (IGF2) signaling and the extracellular matrix (ECM). There is the promise that a more specific investigation of these proteins will help to understand the mechanisms of how sAPPalpha signaling affects memory formation.
PXD033539	37108394	Proteomic Analysis of Arsenic Resistance during Cyanide Assimilation by Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344. 	Proteome of arsenite in P. pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344	Biorremediation, THF, arsenite, quantitative proteomics	Wastewater from mining and other industries usually contains arsenic and cyanide, two highly toxic pollutants, thereby creating the need to develop bioremediation strategies. Here, molecular mechanisms triggered by the simultaneous presence of cyanide and arsenite were analyzed by quantitative proteomics, complemented with qRT-PCR analysis and determination of analytes in the cyanide-assimilating bacterium Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344. Several proteins encoded by two ars gene clusters and other Ars-related proteins were up-regulated by arsenite, even during cyanide assimilation. Although some proteins encoded by the cio gene cluster responsible for cyanide-insensitive respiration decreased in the presence of arsenite, the nitrilase NitC required for cyanide assimilation was unaffected, thus allowing bacterial growth with cyanide and arsenic. Two complementary As-resistance mechanisms were developed in this bacterium, the extrusion of As(III) and its extracellular sequestration in biofilm, whose synthesis increased in the presence of arsenite, and the formation of organoarsenicals such as arseno-phosphoglycerate and methyl-As. Tetrahydrofolate metabolism was also stimulated by arsenite. In addition, the ArsH2 protein increased in the presence of arsenite or cyanide, suggesting its role in the protection from oxidative stress caused by both toxics. These results could be useful for the development of bioremediation strategies for industrial wastes co-contaminated with cyanide and arsenic.
PXD036348	37108401	A Novel Gemcitabine-Resistant Gallbladder Cancer Model Provides Insights into Molecular Changes Occurring during Acquired Resistance. 	Transcriptome and phosphoproteome analyses of gemcitabine-resistant gallbladder cancer cells provide novel insights into molecular changes occurring during acquired resistance	Gallbladder cancer, gemcitabine resistance	Treatment options for advanced gallbladder cancer (GBC) are scarce and usually rely on cytotoxic chemotherapy, but the effectiveness of any regimen is limited and recurrence rates are high. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms of acquired resistance in GBC through the development and characterization of two gemcitabine-resistant GBC cell sublines (NOZ GemR and TGBC1 GemR). Morphological changes, cross-resistance, and migratory/invasive capabilities were evaluated. Then, microarray-based transcriptome profiling and quantitative SILAC-based phosphotyrosine proteomic analyses were performed to identify biological processes and signaling pathways dysregulated in gemcitabine-resistant GBC cells. The transcriptome profiling of parental and gemcitabine-resistant cells revealed the dysregulation of protein-coding genes that promote the enrichment of biological processes such as epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and drug metabolism. On the other hand, the phosphoproteomics analysis of NOZ GemR identified aberrantly dysregulated signaling pathways in resistant cells as well as active kinases, such as ABL1, PDGFRA, and LYN, which could be novel therapeutic targets in GBC. Accordingly, NOZ GemR showed increased sensitivity toward the multikinase inhibitor dasatinib compared to parental cells. Our study describes transcriptome changes and altered signaling pathways occurring in gemcitabine-resistant GBC cells, which greatly expands our understanding of the underlying mechanisms of acquired drug resistance in GBC.
PXD040622	37108455	Alveolar-Capillary Barrier Protection In Vitro: Lung Cell Type-Specific Effects and Molecular Mechanisms Induced by 1alpha, 25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3. 	Analysis of the cellular effect of 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 on lung NCI-H441 cells	NCI-H441 cells, Vitamin D3, alveolar-capillary barrier, biomarker, isobaric labelling, lung	Low serum levels of 1alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (VD3) are associated with a higher mortality in trauma patients with sepsis or ARDS. However, the molecular mechanisms behind this observation are not yet understood. VD3 is known to stimulate lung maturity, alveolar type II cell differentiation, or pulmonary surfactant synthesis and guides epithelial defense during infection. In this study, we investigated the impact of VD3 on the alveolar-capillary barrier in a co-culture model of alveolar epithelial cells and microvascular endothelial cells respectively in the individual cell types. After stimulation with bacterial LPS (lipopolysaccharide), gene expression of inflammatory cytokines, surfactant proteins, transport proteins, antimicrobial peptide, and doublecortin-like kinase 1 (DCLK1) were analyzed by real-time PCR, while corresponding proteins were evaluated by ELISA, immune-fluorescence, or Western blot. The effect of VD3 on the intracellular protein composition in H441 cells was analyzed by quantitative liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based proteomics. VD3 effectively protected the alveolar-capillary barrier against LPS treatment, as indicated by TEER measurement and morphological assessment. VD3 did not inhibit the IL-6 secretion by H441 and OEC but restricted the diffusion of IL-6 to the epithelial compartment. Further, VD3 could significantly suppress the surfactant protein A expression induced in the co-culture system by LPS treatment. VD3 induced high levels of the antimicrobial peptide LL-37, which counteracted effects by LPS and strengthened the barrier. Quantitative proteomics identified VD3-dependent protein abundance changes ranging from constitutional extracellular matrix components and surfactant-associated proteins to immune-regulatory molecules. DCLK1, as a newly described target molecule for VD3, was prominently stimulated by VD3 (10 nM) and seems to influence the alveolar-epithelial cell barrier and regeneration.
PXD041321	37108803	Proteomic Profiling of Mouse Brain Pyruvate Kinase Binding Proteins: A Hint for Moonlighting Functions of PKM1? 	Proteomic profiling of mouse brain pyruvate kinase binding proteins: a hint for moonlighting functions of PKM1?	PKM, PKM-binding proteins, interacto, interactomete kinase, non-canonical moonlighting functions, pyruvapyruvate kinase, pyruvate kinase isoforms	Affinity-based proteomic profiling is widely used for the identification of proteins involved in the formation of various interactomes. Since protein-protein interactions (PPIs) reflect the role of particular proteins in the cell, identification of interaction partners for a protein of interest can reveal its function. The latter is especially important for the characterization of multifunctional proteins, which can play different roles in the cell. Pyruvate kinase (PK), a classical glycolytic enzyme catalyzing the last step of glycolysis, exists in four isoforms: PKM1, PKM2, PKL, and PKR. The enzyme isoform expressed in actively dividing cells, PKM2, exhibits many moonlighting (noncanonical) functions. In contrast to PKM2, PKM1, predominantly expressed in adult differentiated tissues, lacks well-documented moonlighting functions. However, certain evidence exists that it can also perform some functions unrelated to glycolysis. In order to evaluate protein partners, bound to PKM1, in this study we have combined affinity-based separation of mouse brain proteins with mass spectrometry identification. The highly purified PKM1 and a 32-mer synthetic peptide (PK peptide), sharing high sequence homology with the interface contact region of all PK isoforms, were used as the affinity ligands. This proteomic profiling resulted in the identification of specific and common proteins bound to both affinity ligands. Quantitative affinity binding to the affinity ligands of selected identified proteins was validated using a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) biosensor. Bioinformatic analysis has shown that the identified proteins, bound to both full-length PKM1 and the PK peptide, form a protein network (interactome). Some of these interactions are relevant for the moonlighting functions of PKM1. The proteomic dataset is available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD041321.
PXD037725	37108821	Integrative Proteomics and Metabolomics Analysis Reveals the Role of Small Signaling Peptide Rapid Alkalinization Factor 34 (RALF34) in Cucumber Roots. 	Proteomic analysis of the role of RALF34 small signaling peptides in the regulation of cucumber (Cucumis sativus) root development	CsRALF34, Cucumber, Cucumis sativus, RALF34, lateral root initiation	The main role of RALF small signaling peptides was reported to be the alkalization control of the apoplast for improvement of nutrient absorption; however, the exact function of individual RALF peptides such as RALF34 remains unknown. The Arabidopsis RALF34 (AtRALF34) peptide was proposed to be part of the gene regulatory network of lateral root initiation. Cucumber is an excellent model for studying a special form of lateral root initiation taking place in the meristem of the parental root. We attempted to elucidate the role of the regulatory pathway in which RALF34 is a participant using cucumber transgenic hairy roots overexpressing CsRALF34 for comprehensive, integrated metabolomics and proteomics studies, focusing on the analysis of stress response markers. CsRALF34 overexpression resulted in the inhibition of root growth and regulation of cell proliferation, specifically in blocking the G2/M transition in cucumber roots. Based on these results, we propose that CsRALF34 is not part of the gene regulatory networks involved in the early steps of lateral root initiation. Instead, we suggest that CsRALF34 modulates ROS homeostasis and triggers the controlled production of hydroxyl radicals in root cells, possibly associated with intracellular signal transduction. Altogether, our results support the role of RALF peptides as ROS regulators.
PXD035766	37108947	Extracellular Vesicles of the Plant Pathogen Botrytis cinerea. 	Proteomic analysis of the extracellular vesicles of the filamentous fungus Botrytis cinerea.	Botrytis cinerea, extracellular vesicles	Fungal secretomes are known to contain a multitude of components involved in nutrition, cell growth or biotic interactions. Recently, extra-cellular vesicles have been identified in a few fungal species. Here, we used a multidisciplinary approach to identify and characterize extracellular vesicles produced by the plant necrotroph Botrytis cinerea. Transmission electron microscopy of infectious hyphae and hyphae grown in vitro revealed extracellular vesicles of various sizes and densities. Electron tomography showed the co-existence of ovoid and tubular vesicles and pointed to their release via the fusion of multi-vesicular bodies with the cell plasma membrane. The isolation of these vesicles and exploration of their protein content using mass spectrometry led to the identification of soluble and membrane proteins involved in transport, metabolism, cell wall synthesis and remodeling, proteostasis, oxidoreduction and traffic. Confocal microscopy highlighted the capacity of fluorescently labeled vesicles to target cells of B. cinerea, cells of the fungus Fusarium graminearum, and onion epidermal cells but not yeast cells. In addition, a specific positive effect of these vesicles on the growth of B. cinerea was quantified. Altogether, this study broadens our view on the secretion capacity of B. cinerea and its cell-to-cell communication.
PXD040406	37110862	Identification of Protein Quality Markers in Toad Venom from Bufo gargarizans. 	Identification of Protein Biomarkers in Toad Venom from Bufo gargarizans	Bufo gargarizans, biomarker, ear-side glands, extracellular proteins, function, toad venom	Toad venom is a traditional Chinese medicine with high medicinal value. The existing quality evaluation standards of toad venom have obvious limitations because of the lack of research on proteins. Thus, it is necessary to screen suitable quality markers and establish appropriate quality evaluation methods for toad venom proteins to guarantee their safety and efficacy in clinical applications. SDS-PAGE, HPLC, and cytotoxicity assays were used to analyze differences in protein components of toad venom from different areas. Functional proteins were screened as potential quality markers by proteomic and bioinformatic analyses. The protein components and small molecular components of toad venom were not correlated in content. Additionally, the protein component had strong cytotoxicity. Proteomics analysis showed that 13 antimicrobial proteins, four anti-inflammatory and analgesic proteins, and 20 antitumor proteins were differentially expressed extracellular proteins. A candidate list of functional proteins was coded as potential quality markers. Moreover, Lysozyme C-1, which has antimicrobial activity, and Neuropeptide B (NPB), which has anti-inflammatory and analgesic activity, were identified as potential quality markers for toad venom proteins. Quality markers can be used as the basis of quality studies of toad venom proteins and help to construct and improve safe, scientific, and comprehensive quality evaluation methods.
PXD039726	37111311	TEAD Inhibitors Sensitize KRAS(G12C) Inhibitors via Dual Cell Cycle Arrest in KRAS(G12C)-Mutant NSCLC. 	TEAD inhibitor K-975 enhances KRASG12C inhibitor adagrasib-mediated cancer cell proliferation inhibition via dual cell cycle arrest 	KRAS Quantitative Proteomics, TEAD	KRAS(G12C) is one of the most common mutations detected in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, and it is a marker of poor prognosis. The first FDA-approved KRAS(G12C) inhibitors, sotorasib and adagrasib, have been an enormous breakthrough for patients with KRAS(G12C) mutant NSCLC; however, resistance to therapy is emerging. The transcriptional coactivators YAP1/TAZ and the family of transcription factors TEAD1-4 are the downstream effectors of the Hippo pathway and regulate essential cellular processes such as cell proliferation and cell survival. YAP1/TAZ-TEAD activity has further been implicated as a mechanism of resistance to targeted therapies. Here, we investigate the effect of combining TEAD inhibitors with KRAS(G12C) inhibitors in KRAS(G12C) mutant NSCLC tumor models. We show that TEAD inhibitors, while being inactive as single agents in KRAS(G12C)-driven NSCLC cells, enhance KRAS(G12C) inhibitor-mediated anti-tumor efficacy in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, the dual inhibition of KRAS(G12C) and TEAD results in the downregulation of MYC and E2F signatures and in the alteration of the G2/M checkpoint, converging in an increase in G1 and a decrease in G2/M cell cycle phases. Our data suggest that the co-inhibition of KRAS(G12C) and TEAD leads to a specific dual cell cycle arrest in KRAS(G12C) NSCLC cells.
PXD032673	37112941	Analysis of Nipah Virus Replication and Host Proteome Response Patterns in Differentiated Porcine Airway Epithelial Cells Cultured at the Air-Liquid Interface. 	Analysis of Nipah virus replication and host proteome response patterns in differentiated porcine airway epithelial cells cultured at the air-liquid interface	sdgf, sdgsdf	Respiratory tract epithelium infection plays a primary role in Nipah virus (NiV) pathogenesis and transmission. Knowledge about infection dynamics and host responses to NiV infection in respiratory tract epithelia is scarce. Studies in non-differentiated primary respiratory tract cells or cell lines indicate insufficient interferon (IFN) responses. However, studies are lacking in the determination of complex host response patterns in differentiated respiratory tract epithelia for the understanding of NiV replication and spread in swine. Here we characterized infection and spread of NiV in differentiated primary porcine bronchial epithelial cells (PBEC) cultivated at the air-liquid interface (ALI). After the initial infection of only a few apical cells, lateral spread for 12 days with epithelium disruption was observed without releasing substantial amounts of infectious virus from the apical or basal sides. Deep time course proteomics revealed pronounced upregulation of genes related to type I/II IFN, immunoproteasomal subunits, transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP)-mediated peptide transport, and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) I antigen presentation. Spliceosomal factors were downregulated. We propose a model in which NiV replication in PBEC is slowed by a potent and broad type I/II IFN host response with conversion from 26S proteasomes to immunoproteasomal antigen processing and improved MHC I presentation for adaptive immunity priming. NiV induced cytopathic effects could reflect the focal release of cell-associated NiV, which may contribute to efficient airborne viral spread between pigs.
PXD032267	37115698	Pressure overload induces ISG15 to facilitate adverse ventricular remodeling and promote heart failure. 	Proteome wide screening for ubiquitination, ISGylation and NEDDylation sites in wildtype and ISG15 knockout mouse hearts after transverse aortic constriction	Heart, ISGylation, K-e-GG motif, TAC, ubiquitination	Inflammation promotes adverse ventricular remodeling, a common antecedent of heart failure. Here, we set out to determine how inflammatory cells affect cardiomyocytes in the remodeling heart. Pathogenic cardiac macrophages induced an IFN response in cardiomyocytes, characterized by upregulation of the ubiquitin-like protein IFN-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), which posttranslationally modifies its targets through a process termed ISGylation. Cardiac ISG15 is controlled by type I IFN signaling, and ISG15 or ISGylation is upregulated in mice with transverse aortic constriction or infused with angiotensin II; rats with uninephrectomy and DOCA-salt, or pulmonary artery banding; cardiomyocytes exposed to IFNs or CD4+ T cell-conditioned medium; and ventricular tissue of humans with nonischemic cardiomyopathy. By nanoscale liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, we identified the myofibrillar protein filamin-C as an ISGylation target. ISG15 deficiency preserved cardiac function in mice with transverse aortic constriction and led to improved recovery of mouse hearts ex vivo. Metabolomics revealed that ISG15 regulates cardiac amino acid metabolism, whereas ISG15 deficiency prevented misfolded filamin-C accumulation and induced cardiomyocyte autophagy. In sum, ISG15 upregulation is a feature of pathological ventricular remodeling, and protein ISGylation is an inflammation-induced posttranslational modification that may contribute to heart failure development by altering cardiomyocyte protein turnover.
PXD040266	37116489	Simultaneous targeting of PD-1 and IL-2Rbetagamma with radiation therapy inhibits pancreatic cancer growth and metastasis. 	Simultaneous targeting of PD-1 and IL2RBY with radiation therapy to inhibit pancreatic cancer growth and metastasis	pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, timsTOF, tumor immunology	In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients, we show that response to radiation therapy (RT) is characterized by increased IL-2Rbeta and IL-2Rgamma along with decreased IL-2Ralpha expression. The bispecific PD1-IL2v is a PD-1-targeted IL-2 variant (IL-2v) immunocytokine with engineered IL-2 cis targeted to PD-1 and abolished IL-2Ralpha binding, which enhances tumor-antigen-specific T cell activation while reducing regulatory T cell (Treg) suppression. Using PD1-IL2v in orthotopic PDAC KPC-driven tumor models, we show marked improvement in local and metastatic survival, along with a profound increase in tumor-infiltrating CD8(+) T cell subsets with a transcriptionally and metabolically active phenotype and preferential activation of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells. In combination with single-dose RT, PD1-IL2v treatment results in a robust, durable expansion of polyfunctional CD8(+) T cells, T cell stemness, tumor-specific memory immune response, natural killer (NK) cell activation, and decreased Tregs. These data show that PD1-IL2v leads to profound local and distant response in PDAC.
PXD035664	37116708	Mutational screens highlight glycosylation as a modulator of colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) activity. 	Mutational screens highlight glycosylation as a modulator of colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) activity	glycoprotein, mutagenesis, neutrophil, receptor	The colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) controls the growth of neutrophils, the most abundant type of white blood cell. In healthy neutrophils, signaling is dependent on CSF3R binding to its ligand, CSF3. A single amino acid mutation in CSF3R, T618I, instead allows for constitutive, ligand-independent cell growth and leads to a rare type of cancer called chronic neutrophilic leukemia. However, the disease mechanism is not well understood. Here, we investigated why this threonine to isoleucine substitution is the predominant mutation in chronic neutrophilic leukemia and how it leads to uncontrolled neutrophil growth. Using protein domain mapping, we demonstrated that the single CSF3R domain containing residue 618 is sufficient for ligand-independent activity. We then applied an unbiased mutational screening strategy focused on this domain and found that activating mutations are enriched at sites normally occupied by asparagine, threonine, and serine residues-the three amino acids which are commonly glycosylated. We confirmed glycosylation at multiple CSF3R residues by mass spectrometry, including the presence of GalNAc and Gal-GalNAc glycans at WT threonine 618. Using the same approach applied to other cell surface receptors, we identified an activating mutation, S489F, in the interleukin-31 receptor alpha chain. Combined, these results suggest a role for glycosylated hotspot residues in regulating receptor signaling, mutation of which can lead to ligand-independent, uncontrolled activity and human disease.
PXD031304	37117180	Dependency of NELF-E-SLUG-KAT2B epigenetic axis in breast cancer carcinogenesis. 	Dependency of NELF-E-KAT2B epigenetic axis in breast cancer carcinogenesis	EMT, NELF, TMT, breast cancer, qPLEX-RIME	Cancer cells undergo transcriptional reprogramming to drive tumor progression and metastasis. Using cancer cell lines and patient-derived tumor organoids, we demonstrate that loss of the negative elongation factor (NELF) complex inhibits breast cancer development through downregulating epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness-associated genes. Quantitative multiplexed Rapid Immunoprecipitation Mass spectrometry of Endogenous proteins (qPLEX-RIME) further reveals a significant rewiring of NELF-E-associated chromatin partners as a function of EMT and a co-option of NELF-E with the key EMT transcription factor SLUG. Accordingly, loss of NELF-E leads to impaired SLUG binding on chromatin. Through integrative transcriptomic and genomic analyses, we identify the histone acetyltransferase, KAT2B, as a key functional target of NELF-E-SLUG. Genetic and pharmacological inactivation of KAT2B ameliorate the expression of EMT markers, phenocopying NELF ablation. Elevated expression of NELF-E and KAT2B is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer patients, highlighting the clinical relevance of our findings. Taken together, we uncover a crucial role of the NELF-E-SLUG-KAT2B epigenetic axis in breast cancer carcinogenesis.
PXD033691	37117185	USP7 controls NGN3 stability and pancreatic endocrine lineage development. 	Identifying new interactors of NGN3 through IP-MS	Diabetes (B/D-HPP), HA-tag, HEK293A, Human Proteome Project, IP-MS, NGN3, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP)	Understanding the factors and mechanisms involved in beta-cell development will guide therapeutic efforts to generate fully functional beta cells for diabetes. Neurogenin 3 (NGN3) is the key transcription factor that marks endocrine progenitors and drives beta-cell differentiation. Here we screen for binding partners of NGN3 and identify the deubiquitylating enzyme USP7 as a key regulator of NGN3 stability. Mechanistically, USP7 interacts with, deubiquitinates and stabilizes NGN3. In vivo, conditional knockout of Usp7 in the mouse embryonic pancreas causes a dramatic reduction in islet formation and hyperglycemia in adult mice, due to impaired NGN3-mediated endocrine specification during pancreatic development. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of USP7 during endocrine specification in human iPSC models of beta-cell differentiation decreases NGN3 expressing progenitor cell numbers and impairs beta cell differentiation. Thus, the USP7-NGN3 axis is an essential mechanism for driving endocrine development and beta-cell differentiation, which can be therapeutically exploited.
PXD037296	37119611	Effect of antibiotic-administration period on hepatic bile acid profile and expression of pharmacokinetic-related proteins in mouse liver, kidney, and brain capillaries. 	Proteomic study of the mice treated with antibiotics	DIA, antibiotics, brain capillaries, kidney, liver	Antibiotic administration affects pharmacokinetics through changes in the intestinal microbiota, and bile acids are involved in this regulation. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the effect of different periods of antibiotic administration on the hepatic bile acid profile and expression of pharmacokinetic-related proteins in mouse liver, kidney, and brain capillaries. Vancomycin and polymyxin B were orally administered to mice for either 5- or 25-days. The hepatic bile acid profile of the 25-day treatment group was distinct. In the liver, the protein expression of cytochrome P450 (Cyp)3a11 showed the greatest reduction to 11.4% after the 5-day treatment and further reduced to 7.01% after the 25-day treatment. Similar reductions were observed for sulfotransferase 1d1, Cyp2b10, carboxylesterase 2e, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (Ugt)1a5, and Ugt1a9. In the kidney and brain capillaries, no drug-metabolizing enzymes or drug transporters were changed with >1.5-fold or <0.66-fold statistical significance in either period. These results suggest that bile acids and metabolizing enzymes in the liver are affected in a period-dependent manner by antibiotic treatment, while the blood-brain barrier and kidneys are less affected. Drug-drug interactions of antibiotics via the intestinal microbiota should be considered by changing drug metabolism in the liver.
PXD038794	37119799	Discovery and validation of glucose-sensitive peptide biomarkers from human serum albumin to diagnose type 2 diabetes mellitus. 	Discovery and validation of glucose-sensitive peptides from human serum albumin as the candidate peptide biomarkers for diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus	12C/13C-labeling, Diabetes mellitus, Human serum albumin, LC-ESI-MRM, Peptide biomarkers	Glycated albumin (GA), which represents the global glycation level of albumin, has emerged as a biomarker for diagnosing prediabetes and diabetes. In our previous study, we developed a peptide-based strategy and found three putative peptide biomarkers from the tryptic peptides of GA to diagnose type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). However, the trypsin cleavage sites at the carboxyl side of lysine (K) and arginine (R) are consistent with the nonenzymatic glycation modification site residues, which considerably increases the number of missed cleavage sites and half-cleaved peptides. To solve this problem, the endoproteinase Glu-C was used to digest GA from human serum to screen putative peptides to diagnose T2DM. In the discovery phase, we found eighteen and fifteen glucose-sensitive peptides from purified albumin and human serum incubated with (13)C glucose in vitro, respectively. In the validation phase, eight glucose-sensitive peptides were screened and validated in 72 clinical samples (28 healthy controls and 44 patients with diabetes) using label-free LC-ESI-MRM. Three putative sensitive peptides (VAHRFKDLGEE, FKPLVEEPQNLIKQNCE and NQDSISSKLKE) from albumin exhibited good specificity and sensitivity based on receiver operating characteristic analysis. In summary, three peptides were found as promising biomarkers for the diagnosis and assessment of T2DM based on mass spectrometry.
PXD030039	37119817	Stress granule formation inhibits stress-induced apoptosis by selectively sequestering executioner caspases. 	BioID-based mass spectrometry data	BioID	Cytoplasmic stress granules (SGs) are phase-separated membrane-less organelles that form in response to various stress stimuli. SGs are mainly composed of non-canonical stalled 48S preinitiation complexes. In addition, many other proteins also accumulate into SGs, but the list is still incomplete. SG assembly suppresses apoptosis and promotes cell survival under stress. Furthermore, hyperformation of SGs is frequently observed in various human cancers and accelerates tumor development and progression by reducing stress-induced damage of cancer cells. Therefore, they are of clinical importance. However, the precise mechanism underlying SG-mediated inhibition of apoptosis remains ill-defined. Here, using a proximity-labeling proteomic approach, we comprehensively analyzed SG-resident proteins and identified the executioner caspases, caspase-3 and -7, as SG components. We demonstrate that accumulation of caspase-3/7 into SGs is mediated by evolutionarily conserved amino acid residues within their large catalytic domains and inhibits caspase activities and consequent apoptosis induced by various stresses. Expression of an SG-localization-deficient caspase-3 mutant in cells largely counteracted the anti-apoptotic effect of SGs, whereas enforced relocalization of the caspase-3 mutant to SGs restored it. Thus, SG-mediated sequestration of executioner caspases is a mechanism underlying the broad cytoprotective function of SGs. Furthermore, using a mouse xenograft tumor model, we show that this mechanism prevents cancer cells from apoptosis in tumor tissues, thereby promoting cancer progression. Our results reveal the functional crosstalk between SG-mediated cell survival and caspase-mediated cell death signaling pathways and delineate a molecular mechanism that dictates cell-fate decisions under stress and promotes tumorigenesis.
PXD035256	37120454	mTORC2 interactome and localization determine aggressiveness of high-grade glioma cells through association with gelsolin. 	mTORC2 interactome and localization determine aggressiveness of high-grade glioma cells through association with gelsolin.	AP-MS, Gelsolin, cell migration, glioblastoma, mTORC2 interactome	mTOR complex 2 (mTORC2) has been implicated as a key regulator of glioblastoma cell migration. However, the roles of mTORC2 in the migrational control process have not been entirely elucidated. Here, we elaborate that active mTORC2 is crucial for GBM cell motility. Inhibition of mTORC2 impaired cell movement and negatively affected microfilament and microtubule functions. We also aimed to characterize important players involved in the regulation of cell migration and other mTORC2-mediated cellular processes in GBM cells. Therefore, we quantitatively characterized the alteration of the mTORC2 interactome under selective conditions using affinity purification-mass spectrometry in glioblastoma. We demonstrated that changes in cell migration ability specifically altered mTORC2-associated proteins. GSN was identified as one of the most dynamic proteins. The mTORC2-GSN linkage was mostly highlighted in high-grade glioma cells, connecting functional mTORC2 to multiple proteins responsible for directional cell movement in GBM. Loss of GSN disconnected mTORC2 from numerous cytoskeletal proteins and affected the membrane localization of mTORC2. In addition, we reported 86 stable mTORC2-interacting proteins involved in diverse molecular functions, predominantly cytoskeletal remodeling, in GBM. Our findings might help expand future opportunities for predicting the highly migratory phenotype of brain cancers in clinical investigations.
PXD035369	37121272	The Proteome Landscape of Human Placentas for Monochorionic Twins with Selective Intrauterine Growth Restriction. 	The proteome landscape of human placentas for monochorionic twins with selective intrauterine growth restriction	placenta, sIUGR	In perinatal medicine, intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is one of the greatest challenges. The etiology of IUGR is multifactorial, but most cases are thought to arise from placental insufficiency. However, identifying the placental cause of IUGR can be difficult due to numerous confounding factors. Selective IUGR (sIUGR) would be a good model to investigate how impaired placentation affects fetal development, as the growth discordance between monochorionic twins cannot be explained by confounding genetic or maternal factors. Herein, we constructed and analyzed the placental proteomic profiles of IUGR twins and normal cotwins. Specifically, we identified a total of 5481 proteins and 233 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), including 57 upregulated and 176 downregulated DEPs in IUGR twins. Bioinformatics analysis indicates that these DEPs are mainly associated with cardiovascular system development and function, organismal survival, and organismal development. Notably, 34 DEPs are significantly enriched in angiogenesis, and diminished placental angiogenesis in IUGR twins has been further elaborately confirmed. Moreover, we found decreased expression of metadherin (MTDH) in the placentas of IUGR twins and demonstrated that MTDH contributes to placental angiogenesis and fetal growth in vitro. Collectively, our findings reveal the comprehensive proteomic signature of placentas for sIUGR twins, and the DEPs identified may provide in-depth insights into the pathogenesis of placental dysfunction and subsequent impaired fetal growth.
PXD040669	37122867	Comparison of proteomic landscape of extracellular vesicles in pleural effusions isolated by three strategies. 	Comparison isolation method and proteomic landscape of pleural effusion derived extracellular vesicles	density gradient ultracentrifugation, extracellular vesicles, pleural effusion, size-exclusion chromatography, ultracentrifugation	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from pleural effusion (PE) is emerging as disease biomarkers. However, the methods for isolation of EVs from PE (pEVs) were rarely studied. In our study, three methods for isolating pEVs of lung cancer patients were compared, including ultracentrifugation (UC), a combination of UC and size exclusion chromatography (UC-SEC) and a combination of UC and density gradient ultracentrifugation (UC-DGU). The subpopulation of pEVs was identified by nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Western blotting (WB) and nano-flow cytometry (nFCM). Additionally, the proteomic landscape of pEVs was analyzed by Label-free proteomics. The results showed that, compared with UC and UC-DGU, the UC-SEC method separated pEVs with the highest purity. In the proteomic analysis, on average, 1595 proteins were identified in the pEVs isolated by UC-SEC, much more than pEVs isolated by UC (1222) or UC-DGU (807). Furthermore, approximately 90% of identified proteins in each method were found in the EVs public database ExoCarta. Consistent with this, GO annotation indicated that the core proteins identified in each method were mainly enriched in "extracellular exosome." Many of the top 100 proteins with high expression in each method were suggested as protein markers to validate the presence of EVs in the MISEV2018 guidelines. In addition, combined with lung tissue-specific proteins and vesicular membrane proteins, we screened out and validated several novel protein markers (CD11C, HLA DPA1 and HLA DRB1), which were enriched in pEVs rather than in plasma EVs. In conclusion, our study shows that the method of UC-SEC could significantly improve the purity of EVs and the performance of mass spectrometry-based proteomic profiling in analyzing pEVs. The exosomal proteins CD11C, HLA DPA1 and HLA DRB1 may act as potential markers of pEVs. The proteomic analysis of pEVs provides important information and new ideas for studying diseases complicated with PE.
PXD041011	37123219	Interaction between GPR110 (ADGRF1) and tight junction protein occludin implicated in blood-brain barrier permeability. 	Interaction between GPR110 (ADGFR1) and tight junction protein occludin implicated in blood-brain barrier permeability	GPR110, HEK cells, crosslinking, occludin	Activation of adhesion receptor GPR110 by the endogenous ligand synaptamide promotes neurogenesis, neurite growth, and synaptogenesis in developing brains through cAMP signal transduction. However, interacting partners of GPR110 and their involvement in cellular function remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate using chemical crosslinking, affinity purification, and quantitative mass spectrometry that GPR110 interacts with the tight junction adhesion protein occludin. By removing non-specific partners by comparing the binding proteins of GPR110 WT and an inactive mutant exhibiting impaired surface expression, occludin was distinguished as a true binding partner which was further confirmed by reciprocal co-immunoprecipitation assay. Deletion of GPR110 in mice led to the disruption of blood-brain barrier (BBB) and reduced occludin phosphorylation at Y285 in the brain. The Y285 phosphorylation increased upon the ligand-induced activation of GPR110. These data suggest an important role of GPR110-occludin interaction in BBB function and association of previously unknown GPR110-dependent occludin phosphorylation at Y285 with BBB integrity.
PXD032332	37123244	TIAR and FMRP shape pro-survival nascent proteome of leukemia cells in the bone marrow microenvironment. 	TIAR and FMRP shape pro-survival nascent proteome of leukemia cells in the bone marrow microenvironment	Chronic myeloid leukemia, FMRP, QuaNCAT, TIAR	Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cells circulate between blood and bone marrow niche, representing different microenvironments. We studied the role of the two RNA-binding proteins, T-cell-restricted intracellular antigen (TIAR), and the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) in the regulation of protein translation in CML cells residing in settings mimicking peripheral blood microenvironment (PBM) and bone marrow microenvironment (BMM). The outcomes showed how conditions shaped the translation process through TIAR and FMRP activity, considering its relevance in therapy resistance. The QuaNCAT mass-spectrometric approach revealed that TIAR and FMRP have a discrete modulatory effect on protein synthesis and thus affect distinct aspects of leukemic cells functioning in the hypoxic niche. In the BMM setup, FMRP impacted metabolic adaptation of cells and TIAR substantially supported the resistance of CML cells to translation inhibition by homoharringtonine. Overall, our results demonstrated that targeting post-transcriptional control should be considered when designing anti-leukemia therapeutic solutions.
PXD039422	37123245	Effects of lysate/tissue storage at -80degreesC on subsequently extracted EVs of epithelial ovarian cancer tissue origins. 	Effect of cryopreservation of lysate/tissue on EOC tissue-derived EVs	Extracellular Vesicles, Ovarian Cancer	Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) and large extracellular vesicles (lEVs), play vital roles in intercellular communication. We optimized a method that extracts EVs from epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) tissues for the purpose of investigating whether cryopreservation of EOC tissues affects the phenotypes, contents, and biological functions of extracted EVs. EV morphology, the number and size distribution of EVs, and EV-related markers were analyzed. Storage of lysates at -80degreesC decreased lEV yield and increased sEV yield, whereas storage of tissues at -80degreesC increased both sEV and lEV yields; neither changed the morphology or particle mass ratio of EVs. The two cryopreservation groups retained over 90% of proteins and 80% of miRNAs detected in the "fresh" group. EVs extracted following lysate/tissue storage at -80degreesC could also promote angiogenesis and invasive migration ability in human endothelial cells. Cryopreserved EOC tissue may benefit clinical applications for studies of tissue-derived EVs, especially EV proteins-related ones.
PXD034408	37123850	Inactivation of photosynthetic cyclic electron transports upregulates photorespiration for compensation of efficient photosynthesis in Arabidopsis. 	Proteome differences between CET-PSI mutants and WT	NDH, PGR5, photorespiration, photosynthetic cyclic electron transports	Plants have multiple mechanisms to maintain efficient photosynthesis. Photosynthetic cyclic electron transports around photosystem I (CET), which includes the PGR5/PGRL1 and NDH pathways, and photorespiration play a crucial role in photosynthetic efficiency. However, how these two mechanisms are functionally linked is not clear. In this study, we revealed that photorespiration could compensate for the function of CET in efficient photosynthesis by comparison of the growth phenotypes, photosynthetic properties monitored with chlorophyll fluorescence parameters and photosynthetic oxygen evolution in leaves and photorespiratory activity monitored with the difference of photosynthetic oxygen evolution rate under high and low concentration of oxygen conditions between the deleted mutant PGR5 or PGRL1 under NDH defective background (pgr5 crr2 or pgrl1a1b crr2). Both CET mutants pgr5 crr2 and pgrl1a1b crr2 displayed similar suppression effects on photosynthetic capacities of light reaction and growth phenotypes under low light conditions. However, the total CET activity and photosynthetic oxygen evolution of pgr5 crr2 were evidently lower than those of pgrl1a1b crr2, accompanied by the upregulation of photorespiratory activity under low light conditions, resulting in severe suppression of photosynthetic capacities of light reaction and finally photodamaged phenotype under high light or fluctuating light conditions. Based on these findings, we suggest that photorespiration compensates for the loss of CET functions in the regulation of photosynthesis and that coordination of both mechanisms is essential for maintaining the efficient operation of photosynthesis, especially under stressed conditions.
PXD039376	37124724	Proteome profiling of endogenous and potential S-nitrosylation in colorectal cancer. 	Proteome Profiling of Endogenous and Potential S-nitrolysation in Colorectal Cancer	Biotin switch, Colorectal Cancer, S-Nitrosoglutathione., S-nitrosylation	Background: As a common cancer with high incidence rate and mortality, colorectal cancer (CRC) is seriously threatening human health. S-nitrosylation (SNO) proteins mediated by nitric oxide (NO) has important implications in the genesis, progression, and apoptosis of CRC. It's worth noting that the SNO proteins also play an important role in the tumor endocrine and metabolic pathways of CRC. Materials and methods: In this study, the protein extracts of human tissues and cell lines were treated by biotin switch technology and magnetic beads enrichment. The proteomic results of endogenous and potential SNO proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry (MS). Through the comparison and analysis of MS results, Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, and literatures, some endogenous and potential SNO proteins were identified in CRC, which were closely related to the tumor endocrine and metabolic pathways, the apoptotic signaling pathways, protein maturation, and other biological processes of the proliferation and apoptosis of CRC cells. Results: A total of 19 proteins containing potential or endogenous SNO sites were detected in both human cancer tissue and SW 480 cells. Through the cross validation of MS results, GO analysis, and literatures, several SNO proteins were identified frequently in CRC, such as the actin, cytoplasmic 1 (ACTB), peroxiredoxin-4 (PRDX4), protein S100A8 (S100A8), pyruvate kinase PKM (PKM), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), which were closely related to the tumor endocrine and metabolic pathways and the apoptotic signaling pathways of CRC. Conclusion: Different CRC cells and tissues contained potential and endogenous SNO modified proteins. In addition, some SNO proteins could participate in the proliferation, metastasis and apoptosis of CRC by regulating the tumor endocrine and metabolic pathways.
PXD034553	37126374	High-Coverage Four-Dimensional Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Enabled by Deep Learning-Driven Multidimensional Predictions. 	High-Coverage Four-Dimensional Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Enabled by Deep Learning-Driven Multi-Dimensional Prediction	4D proteomics, DIA, Phosphoproteomic, ion mobility	Four-dimensional (4D) data-independent acquisition (DIA)-based proteomics is a promising technology. However, its full performance is restricted by the time-consuming building and limited coverage of a project-specific experimental library. Herein, we developed a versatile multifunctional deep learning model Deep4D based on self-attention that could predict the collisional cross section, retention time, fragment ion intensity, and charge state with high accuracies for both the unmodified and phosphorylated peptides and thus established the complete workflows for high-coverage 4D DIA proteomics and phosphoproteomics based on multidimensional predictions. A 4D predicted library containing ~2 million peptides was established that could realize experimental library-free DIA analysis, and 33% more proteins were identified than using an experimental library of single-shot measurement in the example of HeLa cells. These results show the great values of the convenient high-coverage 4D DIA proteomics methods.
PXD033121	37126448	The ribosome-associated protein RACK1 represses Kir4.1 translation in astrocytes and influences neuronal activity. 	Translation regulation mechanisms in astrocytes	Astrocytes, Brain, Polyribosomes-associated proteins, Regulation of translation	The regulation of translation in astrocytes, the main glial cells in the brain, remains poorly characterized. We developed a high-throughput proteomics screen for polysome-associated proteins in astrocytes and focused on ribosomal protein receptor of activated protein C kinase 1 (RACK1), a critical factor in translational regulation. In astrocyte somata and perisynaptic astrocytic processes (PAPs), RACK1 preferentially binds to a number of mRNAs, including Kcnj10, encoding the inward-rectifying potassium (K(+)) channel Kir4.1. By developing an astrocyte-specific, conditional RACK1 knockout mouse model, we show that RACK1 represses production of Kir4.1 in hippocampal astrocytes and PAPs. Upregulation of Kir4.1 in the absence of RACK1 increases astrocytic Kir4.1-mediated K(+) currents and volume. It also modifies neuronal activity attenuating burst frequency and duration. Reporter-based assays reveal that RACK1 controls Kcnj10 translation through the transcript's 5' untranslated region. Hence, translational regulation by RACK1 in astrocytes represses Kir4.1 expression and influences neuronal activity.
PXD035841	37126699	Stress resilience-enhancing drugs preserve tissue structure and function in degenerating retina via phosphodiesterase inhibition. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of ARPE19 cells and Abca4-/-Rdh8-/- mice exposed to stress	Vision, cell culture, neurodegeneration, neuroprotection, phosphodiesterases, retina, stress	Chronic, progressive retinal diseases, such as age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic retinopathy, and retinitis pigmentosa, arise from genetic and environmental perturbations of cellular and tissue homeostasis. These disruptions accumulate with repeated exposures to stress over time, leading to progressive visual impairment and, in many cases, legal blindness. Despite decades of research, therapeutic options for the millions of patients suffering from these disorders remain severely limited, especially for treating earlier stages of pathogenesis when the opportunity to preserve the retinal structure and visual function is greatest. To address this urgent, unmet medical need, we employed a systems pharmacology platform for therapeutic development. Through integrative single-cell transcriptomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics, we identified universal molecular mechanisms across distinct models of age-related and inherited retinal degenerations, characterized by impaired physiological resilience to stress. Here, we report that selective, targeted pharmacological inhibition of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs), which serve as critical regulatory nodes that modulate intracellular second messenger signaling pathways, stabilized the transcriptome, proteome, and phosphoproteome through downstream activation of protective mechanisms coupled with synergistic inhibition of degenerative processes. This therapeutic intervention enhanced resilience to acute and chronic forms of stress in the degenerating retina, thus preserving tissue structure and function across various models of age-related and inherited retinal disease. Taken together, these findings exemplify a systems pharmacology approach to drug discovery and development, revealing a new class of therapeutics with potential clinical utility in the treatment or prevention of the most common causes of blindness.
PXD030417	37127628	Molecular mechanism of engineered Zymomonas mobilis to furfural and acetic acid stress. 	Molecular mechanism of Engineered Zymomonas mobilis response to furfural and acetic acid stress	Acetic acid, Furfural, Lignocellulosic biomass, RNA-Seq, Zymomonas mobilis	Acetic acid and furfural (AF) are two major inhibitors of microorganisms during lignocellulosic ethanol production. In our previous study, we successfully engineered Zymomonas mobilis 532 (ZM532) strain by genome shuffling, but the molecular mechanisms of tolerance to inhibitors were still unknown. Therefore, this study investigated the responses of ZM532 and its wild-type Z. mobilis (ZM4) to AF using multi-omics approaches (transcriptomics, genomics, and label free quantitative proteomics). Based on RNA-Seq data, two differentially expressed genes, ZMO_RS02740 (up-regulated) and ZMO_RS06525 (down-regulated) were knocked out and over-expressed through CRISPR-Cas technology to investigate their roles in AF tolerance. Overall, we identified 1865 and 14 novel DEGs in ZM532 and wild-type ZM4. In contrast, 1532 proteins were identified in ZM532 and wild-type ZM4. Among these, we found 96 important genes in ZM532 involving acid resistance mechanisms and survival rates against stressors. Furthermore, our knockout results demonstrated that growth activity and glucose consumption of mutant strains ZM532incrementZMO_RS02740 and ZM4incrementZMO_RS02740 decreased with increased fermentation time from 42 to 55 h and ethanol production up to 58% in ZM532 than that in ZM532incrementZMO_RS02740. Hence, these findings suggest ZMO_RS02740 as a protective strategy for ZM ethanol production under stressful conditions.
PXD034772	37127787	The immunopeptidome landscape associated with T cell infiltration, inflammation and immune editing in lung cancer. 	The immunopeptidome landscape associated with T cell infiltration, inflammation   and immune-editing in lung cancer	Immunopeptidomics, lung cancer, neoantigens, proteogenomics	One key barrier to improving efficacy of personalized cancer immunotherapies that are dependent on the tumor antigenic landscape remains patient stratification. Although patients with CD3(+)CD8(+) T cell-inflamed tumors typically show better response to immune checkpoint inhibitors, it is still unknown whether the immunopeptidome repertoire presented in highly inflamed and noninflamed tumors is substantially different. We surveyed 61 tumor regions and adjacent nonmalignant lung tissues from 8 patients with lung cancer and performed deep antigen discovery combining immunopeptidomics, genomics, bulk and spatial transcriptomics, and explored the heterogeneous expression and presentation of tumor (neo)antigens. In the present study, we associated diverse immune cell populations with the immunopeptidome and found a relatively higher frequency of predicted neoantigens located within HLA-I presentation hotspots in CD3(+)CD8(+) T cell-excluded tumors. We associated such neoantigens with immune recognition, supporting their involvement in immune editing. This could have implications for the choice of combination therapies tailored to the patient's mutanome and immune microenvironment.
PXD031771	37128318	Breast cancer cell secretome analysis to decipher miRNA regulating the tumor microenvironment and discover potential biomarkers. 	Breast Cancer Cell Secretome Analysis to Decipher miRNA Tumor Biology and Discover Potential Biomarkers	Bioinformatics, Biomarker, Breast Cancer, Estrogen Receptor-Positive (ER+), Luminal A, MicroRNA, Secretome, Systems Biology, Tumor Microenvironment (TME), miR526b, miR655	MicroRNA (miRNA/miR) 526 b- and miR655-overexpressed tumor cell-free secretions regulate the breast cancer tumor microenvironment (TME) by promoting tumor-associated angiogenesis, oxidative stress, and hypoxic responses. Additionally, premature miRNA (pri-miR526b and pri-miR655) are established breast cancer blood biomarkers. However, the mechanisms of how these miRNAs regulate the TME has yet to be investigated. Mass spectrometry analysis of miRNA-overexpressed cell lines MCF7-miR526b, MCF7-miR655, and miRNA-low MCF7-Mock cell-free secretomes identified 34 differentially expressed proteins coded by eight genes. In both miRNA-high cell secretomes, four markers are upregulated: YWHAB, SFN, TXNDC12, and MYL6B, and four are downregulated: PEA15, PRDX4, PSMB6, and FN1. All upregulated marker transcripts are significantly high in both total cellular RNA pool and cell-free secretions of miRNA-high cell lines, validated with quantitative RT-PCR. Bioinformatics tools were used to investigate these markers' roles in breast cancer. These markers' top gene ontology functions are related to apoptosis, oxidative stress, membrane transport, and motility supporting oncogenic miR526b- and miR655-induced functions. Gene transcription factor analysis tools were used to show how these miRNAs regulate the expression of each secretory marker. Data extracted from the Human Protein Atlas showed that YWHAB, SFN, and TXNDC12 expression could distinguish early and late-stage breast cancer in various breast cancer subtypes and are associated with poor patient survival. Additionally, immunohistochemistry analysis showed the expression of each marker in breast tumors. A stronger correlation between miRNA clusters and upregulated secretory markers gene expression was found in the luminal A tumor subtype. YWHAB, SFN, and MYL6B are upregulated in breast cancer patient's blood, showing biomarker potential. Of these identified novel miRNA secretory markers, SFN and YWHAB successfully passed all validations and are the best candidates to further investigate their roles in miRNA associated TME regulation. Also, these markers show the potential to serve as blood-based breast cancer biomarkers, especially for luminal-A subtypes.
PXD024130	37129543	PepGM: a probabilistic graphical model for taxonomic inference of viral proteome samples with associated confidence scores. 	The proteome of trained immunity	Immunity, Monocytes, Trained	MOTIVATION: Inferring taxonomy in mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics is a complex task. In multi-species or viral samples of unknown taxonomic origin, the presence of proteins and corresponding taxa must be inferred from a list of identified peptides, which is often complicated by protein homology: many proteins do not only share peptides within a taxon but also between taxa. However, the correct taxonomic inference is crucial when identifying different viral strains with high-sequence homology-considering, e.g., the different epidemiological characteristics of the various strains of severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus-2. Additionally, many viruses mutate frequently, further complicating the correct identification of viral proteomic samples. RESULTS: We present PepGM, a probabilistic graphical model for the taxonomic assignment of virus proteomic samples with strain-level resolution and associated confidence scores. PepGM combines the results of a standard proteomic database search algorithm with belief propagation to calculate the marginal distributions, and thus confidence scores, for potential taxonomic assignments. We demonstrate the performance of PepGM using several publicly available virus proteomic datasets, showing its strain-level resolution performance. In two out of eight cases, the taxonomic assignments were only correct on the species level, which PepGM clearly indicates by lower confidence scores. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: PepGM is written in Python and embedded into a Snakemake workflow. It is available at https://github.com/BAMeScience/PepGM.
PXD030178	37130519	IFNalpha primes cancer cells for Fusicoccin-induced cell death via 14-3-3 PPI stabilization. 	Effects of Fusicoccin towards 14-3-3 interactions in IFNa-primed OVCAR3 cells	Fusicoccin, label-free quantification MS	The natural product family of the fusicoccanes (FCs) has been shown to display anti-cancer activity, especially when combined with established therapeutic agents. FCs stabilize 14-3-3 protein-protein interactions (PPIs). Here, we tested combinations of a small library of FCs with interferon alpha (IFNalpha) on different cancer cell lines and report a proteomics approach to identify the specific 14-3-3 PPIs that are induced by IFNalpha and stabilized by FCs in OVCAR-3 cells. Among the identified 14-3-3 target proteins are THEMIS2, receptor interacting protein kinase 2 (RIPK2), EIF2AK2, and several members of the LDB1 complex. Biophysical and structural biology studies confirm these 14-3-3 PPIs as physical targets of FC stabilization, and transcriptome as well as pathway analyses suggest possible explanations for the observed synergistic effect of IFNalpha/FC treatment on cancer cells. This study elucidates the polypharmacological effects of FCs in cancer cells and identifies potential targets from the vast interactome of 14-3-3s for therapeutic intervention in oncology.
PXD036381	37131486	Extracellular vesicles of Pseudomonas aeruginosa downregulate pyruvate fermentation enzymes and inhibit the initial growth of Staphylococcus aureus. 	Proteomic analysis of Staphylococcus aureus after treating with extracellular membrane vesicles from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PaOMVs)	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, SWATH, Staphylococcus aureus, extracellular membrane vesicles	Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa are well-known opportunistic pathogens that frequently coexist in chronic wounds and cystic fibrosis. The exoproducts of P. aeruginosa have been shown to affect the growth and pathogenicity of S. aureus, but the detailed mechanisms are not well understood. In this study, we investigated the effect of extracellular vesicles from P. aeruginosa (PaEVs) on the growth of S. aureus. We found that PaEVs inhibited the S. aureus growth independently of iron chelation and showed no bactericidal activity. This growth inhibitory effect was also observed with methicillin-resistant S. aureus but not with Acinetobacter baumannii, Enterococcus faecalis, S. Typhimurium, E. coli, Listeria monocytogenes, or Candida albicans, suggesting that the growth inhibitory effect of PaEVs is highly specific for S. aureus. To better understand the detailed mechanism, the difference in protein production of S. aureus between PaEV-treated and non-treated groups was further analyzed. The results revealed that lactate dehydrogenase 2 and formate acetyltransferase enzymes in the pyruvate fermentation pathway were significantly reduced after PaEV treatment. Likewise, the expression of ldh2 gene for lactate dehydrogenase 2 and pflB gene for formate acetyltransferase in S. aureus was reduced by PaEV treatment. In addition, this inhibitory effect of PaEVs was abolished by supplementation with pyruvate or oxygen. These results suggest that PaEVs inhibit the growth of S. aureus by suppressing the pyruvate fermentation pathway. This study reported a mechanism of PaEVs in inhibiting S. aureus growth which may be important for better management of S. aureus and P. aeruginosa co-infections.
PXD037197	37132462	Regional Transcriptomics and Proteomics of Pharmacokinetics-Related Genes in Human Intestine. 	Gene expression profile of epithelial cells from five regions of human intestinal.	Intestinal tract	The intestine is an organ responsible for the absorption and metabolism of orally administered drugs. To predict pharmacokinetics behavior in the small intestine, it is necessary to examine the human intestinal expression profiles of the genes related to drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME). In this study, to obtain more accurate expression profiles in various regions of the human intestine, biopsy samples were collected from endoscopically noninflamed mucosa of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon, and rectum from Japanese including Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis patients, and both RNA-seq and quantitative proteomics analyses were performed. We also analyzed the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes (cytochromes P450 (CYPs) and non-CYP enzymes), drug transporters, and nuclear receptors. Overall, the mRNA expression levels of these ADME-related genes correlated highly with the protein expression levels. The characteristics of the expression of ADME-related genes differed significantly between the small and large intestines, including the expression levels of CYP enzymes, which were higher and lower in the small and large intestines, respectively. Most CYPs were expressed dominantly in the small intestine, especially the jejunum, but were rarely expressed in the large intestine. On the other hand, non-CYP enzymes were expressed in the large intestine but at lower expression levels than in the small intestine. Moreover, the expression levels of drug metabolizing enzyme genes differed even between the proximal and distal small intestine. Transporters were expressed most highly in the ileum. The data in the present study will enhance understanding of the intestinal ADME of drug candidates and would be useful for drug discovery research.
PXD039584	37134263	Distinct modulation of cellular immunopeptidome by the allosteric regulatory site of ER aminopeptidase 1. 	Distinct modulation of cellular immunopeptidome by the allosteric regulatory site of ER aminopeptidase 1	ERAP1, HLA, Immunopeptidomics, MHC class1, allosteric, aminopetidase, inhibitor	ER aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) is an ER-resident aminopeptidase that excises N-terminal residues of peptides that then bind onto Major Histocompatibility Complex I molecules (MHC-I) and indirectly modulates adaptive immune responses. ERAP1 contains an allosteric regulatory site that accommodates the C-terminus of at least some peptide substrates, raising questions about its exact influence on antigen presentation and the potential of allosteric inhibition for cancer immunotherapy. We used an inhibitor that targets this regulatory site to study its effect on the immunopeptidome of a human cancer cell line. The immunopeptidomes of allosterically inhibited and ERAP1 KO cells contain high-affinity peptides with sequence motifs consistent with the cellular HLA class I haplotypes but are strikingly different in peptide composition. Compared to KO cells, allosteric inhibition did not affect the length distribution of peptides and skewed the peptide repertoire both in terms of sequence motifs and HLA allele utilization, indicating significant mechanistic differences between the two ways of disrupting ERAP1 function. These findings suggest that the regulatory site of ERAP1 plays distinct roles in antigenic peptide selection, which should be taken into consideration when designing therapeutic interventions targeting the cancer immunopeptidome.
PXD029392	37137667	Mouse nuclear RNAi-defective 2 promotes splicing of weak 5' splice sites. 	Novel RNA-binding Proteins Bind U1 snRNA to Promote Splicing of Weak 5' Splice Sites	CCDC174, NRDE2, Protein-RNA interactions, RNA-binding proteins, spliceosome, splicing factors	Removal of introns during pre-mRNA splicing, which is central to gene expression, initiates by base pairing of U1 snRNA with a 5' splice site (5'SS). In mammals, many introns contain weak 5'SSs that are not efficiently recognized by the canonical U1 snRNP, suggesting alternative mechanisms exist. Here, we develop a cross-linking immunoprecipitation coupled to a high-throughput sequencing method, BCLIP-seq, to identify NRDE2 (nuclear RNAi-defective 2), and CCDC174 (coiled-coil domain-containing 174) as novel RNA-binding proteins in mouse ES cells that associate with U1 snRNA and 5'SSs. Both proteins bind directly to U1 snRNA independently of canonical U1 snRNP-specific proteins, and they are required for the selection and effective processing of weak 5'SSs. Our results reveal that mammalian cells use noncanonical splicing factors bound directly to U1 snRNA to effectively select suboptimal 5'SS sequences in hundreds of genes, promoting proper splice site choice, and accurate pre-mRNA splicing.
PXD041103	37137912	N-Formimidoylation/-iminoacetylation modification in aminoglycosides requires FAD-dependent and ligand-protein NOS bridge dual chemistry. 	The sulfonic-containing peptides (at C281) from trypsin-treated Orf1 in H218O.	N-formimmidolation and iminoacetylation enzyme	Oxidized cysteine residues are highly reactive and can form functional covalent conjugates, of which the allosteric redox switch formed by the lysine-cysteine NOS bridge is an example. Here, we report a noncanonical FAD-dependent enzyme Orf1 that adds a glycine-derived N-formimidoyl group to glycinothricin to form the antibiotic BD-12. X-ray crystallography was used to investigate this complex enzymatic process, which showed Orf1 has two substrate-binding sites that sit 13.5 Aa apart unlike canonical FAD-dependent oxidoreductases. One site could accommodate glycine and the other glycinothricin or glycylthricin. Moreover, an intermediate-enzyme adduct with a NOS-covalent linkage was observed in the later site, where it acts as a two-scissile-bond linkage facilitating nucleophilic addition and cofactor-free decarboxylation. The chain length of nucleophilic acceptors vies with bond cleavage sites at either N-O or O-S accounting for N-formimidoylation or N-iminoacetylation. The resultant product is no longer sensitive to aminoglycoside-modifying enzymes, a strategy that antibiotic-producing species employ to counter drug resistance in competing species.
PXD031141	37137944	Antibodies to variable surface antigens induce antigenic variation in the intestinal parasite Giardia lamblia. 	Antibodies to protozoan variable surface antigens induce antigenic variation	Giardia, antigenic variation, exosomes, microvesicles	The genomes of most protozoa encode families of variant surface antigens. In some parasitic microorganisms, it has been demonstrated that mutually exclusive changes in the expression of these antigens allow parasites to evade the host's immune response. It is widely assumed that antigenic variation in protozoan parasites is accomplished by the spontaneous appearance within the population of cells expressing antigenic variants that escape antibody-mediated cytotoxicity. Here we show, both in vitro and in animal infections, that antibodies to Variant-specific Surface Proteins (VSPs) of the intestinal parasite Giardia lamblia are not cytotoxic, inducing instead VSP clustering into liquid-ordered phase membrane microdomains that trigger a massive release of microvesicles carrying the original VSP and switch in expression to different VSPs by a calcium-dependent mechanism. This novel mechanism of surface antigen clearance throughout its release into microvesicles coupled to the stochastic induction of new phenotypic variants not only changes current paradigms of antigenic switching but also provides a new framework for understanding the course of protozoan infections as a host/parasite adaptive process.
PXD040137	37138872	Succinylation modification provides new insights for the treatment of immunocompromised individuals with drug-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus infection. 	Succinylation modification provides a new sight in the treatment of immunocompromised populations with drug-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus infection	Aspergillus fumigatus, Succinylation, drug-resistance	Invasive Aspergillus fumigatus infection poses a serious threat to global human health, especially to immunocompromised individuals. Currently, triazole drugs are the most commonly used antifungals for aspergillosis. However, owing to the emergence of drug-resistant strains, the effect of triazole drugs is greatly restricted, resulting in a mortality rate as high as 80%. Succinylation, a novel post-translational modification, is attracting increasing interest, although its biological function in triazole resistance remains unclear. In this study, we initiated the screening of lysine succinylation in A. fumigatus. We discovered that some of the succinylation sites differed significantly among strains with unequal itraconazole (ITR) resistance. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the succinylated proteins are involved in a broad range of cellular functions with diverse subcellular localizations, the most notable of which is cell metabolism. Further antifungal sensitivity tests confirmed the synergistic fungicidal effects of dessuccinylase inhibitor nicotinamide (NAM) on ITR-resistant A. fumigatus. In vivo experiments revealed that treatment with NAM alone or in combination with ITR significantly increased the survival of neutropenic mice infected with A. fumigatus. In vitro experiments showed that NAM enhanced the killing effect of THP-1 macrophages on A. fumigatus conidia. Our results suggest that lysine succinylation plays an indispensable role in ITR resistance of A. fumigatus. Dessuccinylase inhibitor NAM alone or in combination with ITR exerted good effects against A. fumigatus infection in terms of synergistic fungicidal effect and enhancing macrophage killing effect. These results provide mechanistic insights that will aid in the treatment of ITR-resistant fungal infections.
PXD036428	37139155	Deregulated expression of the 14q32 miRNA cluster in clear cell renal cancer cells. 	Deregulated Expression of the 14q32 miRNA Cluster in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinomas	14q32, ATXN2, DIA, DNMT1, LPA, Q-TOF, ccRCC, claudin-1, iron, timsTOF Pro	Clear cell renal cell carcinomas (ccRCC) are characterized by arm-wide chromosomal alterations. Loss at 14q is associated with disease aggressiveness in ccRCC, which responds poorly to chemotherapeutics. The 14q locus contains one of the largest miRNA clusters in the human genome; however, little is known about the contribution of these miRNAs to ccRCC pathogenesis. In this regard, we investigated the expression pattern of selected miRNAs at the 14q32 locus in TCGA kidney tumors and in ccRCC cell lines. We demonstrated that the miRNA cluster is downregulated in ccRCC (and cell lines) as well as in papillary kidney tumors relative to normal kidney tissues (and primary renal proximal tubule epithelial (RPTEC) cells). We demonstrated that agents modulating expression of DNMT1 (e.g., 5-Aza-deoxycytidine) could modulate 14q32 miRNA expression in ccRCC cell lines. Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA, a lysophospholipid mediator elevated in ccRCC) not only increased labile iron content but also modulated expression of a 14q32 miRNA. Through an overexpression approach targeting a subset of 14q32 miRNAs (specifically at subcluster A: miR-431-5p, miR-432-5p, miR-127-3p, and miR-433-3p) in 769-P cells, we uncovered changes in cellular viability and claudin-1, a tight junction marker. A global proteomic approach was implemented using these miRNA overexpressing cell lines which uncovered ATXN2 as a highly downregulated target. Collectively, these findings support a contribution of miRNAs at 14q32 in ccRCC pathogenesis.
PXD039463	37139603	Breast Cancer Stem Cell-Derived Tumors Escape from gammadelta T-cell Immunosurveillance In Vivo by Modulating gammadelta T-cell Ligands. 	Breast cancer stem cell-derived tumors escape from gammadelta T cell immunosurveillance in vivo by modulating gammadelta T cell ligands	LC-MS, TMT, Triple negative breast cancer, breast cancer stem cells, immune-escape, immunotherapy, phosphoantigens, quantitation, gammadelta T cells	There are no targeted therapies for patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). TNBC is enriched in breast cancer stem cells (BCSC), which play a key role in metastasis, chemoresistance, relapse, and mortality. gammadelta T cells hold great potential in immunotherapy against cancer and might provide an approach to therapeutically target TNBC. gammadelta T cells are commonly observed to infiltrate solid tumors and have an extensive repertoire of tumor-sensing mechanisms, recognizing stress-induced molecules and phosphoantigens (pAgs) on transformed cells. Herein, we show that patient-derived triple-negative BCSCs are efficiently recognized and killed by ex vivo expanded gammadelta T cells from healthy donors. Orthotopically xenografted BCSCs, however, were refractory to gammadelta T-cell immunotherapy. We unraveled concerted differentiation and immune escape mechanisms: xenografted BCSCs lost stemness, expression of gammadelta T-cell ligands, adhesion molecules, and pAgs, thereby evading immune recognition by gammadelta T cells. Indeed, neither promigratory engineered gammadelta T cells, nor anti-PD-1 checkpoint blockade, significantly prolonged overall survival of tumor-bearing mice. BCSC immune escape was independent of the immune pressure exerted by the gammadelta T cells and could be pharmacologically reverted by zoledronate or IFNalpha treatment. These results pave the way for novel combinatorial immunotherapies for TNBC.
PXD041002	37140039	Updated MS(2)PIP web server supports cutting-edge proteomics applications. 	TMT data from ovarian cancer cells	TMT cancer	Interest in the use of machine learning for peptide fragmentation spectrum prediction has been strongly on the rise over the past years, especially for applications in challenging proteomics identification workflows such as immunopeptidomics and the full-proteome identification of data independent acquisition spectra. Since its inception, the MS(2)PIP peptide spectrum predictor has been widely used for various downstream applications, mostly thanks to its accuracy, ease-of-use, and broad applicability. We here present a thoroughly updated version of the MS(2)PIP web server, which includes new and more performant prediction models for both tryptic- and non-tryptic peptides, for immunopeptides, and for CID-fragmented TMT-labeled peptides. Additionally, we have also added new functionality to greatly facilitate the generation of proteome-wide predicted spectral libraries, requiring only a FASTA protein file as input. These libraries also include retention time predictions from DeepLC. Moreover, we now provide pre-built and ready-to-download spectral libraries for various model organisms in multiple DIA-compatible spectral library formats. Besides upgrading the back-end models, the user experience on the MS(2)PIP web server is thus also greatly enhanced, extending its applicability to new domains, including immunopeptidomics and MS3-based TMT quantification experiments. MS(2)PIP is freely available at https://iomics.ugent.be/ms2pip/.
PXD034535	37141889	Organism-wide, cell-type-specific secretome mapping of exercise training in mice. 	Organism-wide secretome mapping of tissue crosstalk in exercise	Plasma, exercise, in vivo, mice, secreteome	There is a significant interest in identifying blood-borne factors that mediate tissue crosstalk and function as molecular effectors of physical activity. Although past studies have focused on an individual molecule or cell type, the organism-wide secretome response to physical activity has not been evaluated. Here, we use a cell-type-specific proteomic approach to generate a 21-cell-type, 10-tissue map of exercise training-regulated secretomes in mice. Our dataset identifies >200 exercise training-regulated cell-type-secreted protein pairs, the majority of which have not been previously reported. Pdgfra-cre-labeled secretomes were the most responsive to exercise training. Finally, we show anti-obesity, anti-diabetic, and exercise performance-enhancing activities for proteoforms of intracellular carboxylesterases whose secretion from the liver is induced by exercise training.
PXD039414	37142056	Robust and High-Throughput Analytical Flow Proteomics Analysis of Cynomolgus Monkey and Human Matrices With Zeno SWATH Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Robust and High-Throughput Analytical Flow Proteomics Analysis of Cynomolgus Monkey and Human Matrices with Zeno SWATH Data Independent Acquisition	7600 ZenoTOF, DIA, Tissues, Zeno SWATH, biofluids	Modern mass spectrometers routinely allow deep proteome coverage in a single experiment. These methods are typically operated at nanoflow and microflow regimes, but they often lack throughput and chromatographic robustness, which is critical for large-scale studies. In this context, we have developed, optimized, and benchmarked LC-MS methods combining the robustness and throughput of analytical flow chromatography with the added sensitivity provided by the Zeno trap across a wide range of cynomolgus monkey and human matrices of interest for toxicological studies and clinical biomarker discovery. Sequential Window Acquisition of All Theoretical Fragment Ion Mass Spectra (SWATH) data-independent acquisition (DIA) experiments with Zeno trap activated (Zeno SWATH DIA) provided a clear advantage over conventional SWATH DIA in all sample types tested with improved sensitivity, quantitative robustness, and signal linearity as well as increased protein coverage by up to 9-fold. Using a 10-min gradient chromatography, up to 3300 proteins were identified in tissues at 2 mug peptide load. Importantly, the performance gains with Zeno SWATH translated into better biological pathway representation and improved the ability to identify dysregulated proteins and pathways associated with two metabolic diseases in human plasma. Finally, we demonstrate that this method is highly stable over time with the acquisition of reliable data over the injection of 1000+ samples (14.2 days of uninterrupted acquisition) without the need for human intervention or normalization. Altogether, Zeno SWATH DIA methodology allows fast, sensitive, and robust proteomic workflows using analytical flow and is amenable to large-scale studies.
PXD041469	37142566	Dynamic changes of the Prf/Pto tomato resistance complex following effector recognition. 	TFT3 interacts with MAPKKK by coimmunoprecipitation	plant defecnce, tomato	In both plants and animals, nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NLR) immune receptors play critical roles in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. In plants, NLRs recognise pathogen-derived effector proteins and initiate effector-triggered immunity (ETI). However, the molecular mechanisms that link NLR-mediated effector recognition and downstream signalling are not fully understood. By exploiting the well-characterised tomato Prf/Pto NLR resistance complex, we identified the 14-3-3 proteins TFT1 and TFT3 as interacting partners of both the NLR complex and the protein kinase MAPKKKalpha. Moreover, we identified the helper NRC proteins (NLR-required for cell death) as integral components of the Prf /Pto NLR recognition complex. Notably our studies revealed that TFTs and NRCs interact with distinct modules of the NLR complex and, following effector recognition, dissociate facilitating downstream signalling. Thus, our data provide a mechanistic link between activation of immune receptors and initiation of downstream signalling cascades.
PXD032128	37142709	Hierarchical helical carbon nanotube fibre as a bone-integrating anterior cruciate ligament replacement. 	Hierarchical Helical Carbon Nanotube Fibre as a Bone Integrating ACL Replacement	Hierarchically assembled helical fiber integrates effectively with bones	High rates of ligament damage require replacements; however, current synthetic materials have issues with bone integration leading to implant failure. Here we introduce an artificial ligament that has the required mechanical properties and can integrate with the host bone and restore movement in animals. The ligament is assembled from aligned carbon nanotubes formed into hierarchical helical fibres bearing nanometre and micrometre channels. Osseointegration of the artificial ligament is observed in an anterior cruciate ligament replacement model where clinical polymer controls showed bone resorption. A higher pull-out force is found after a 13-week implantation in rabbit and ovine models, and animals can run and jump normally. The long-term safety of the artificial ligament is demonstrated, and the pathways involved in integration are studied.
PXD036903	37146716	STK33 Phosphorylates Fibrous Sheath Protein AKAP3/4 to Regulate Sperm Flagella Assembly in Spermiogenesis. 	TMT-based phosphoproteomics and proteomics analysis in Stk33-/- mouse testis	Stk33, TMT, phosphoproteomics, testis	Spermatogenesis defects are important for male infertility; however, the etiology and pathogenesis are still unknown. Herein, we identified two loss-of-function mutations of STK33 in seven individuals with non-obstructive azoospermia. Further functional studies of these frameshift and nonsense mutations revealed that Stk33(-/KI) male mice were sterile, and Stk33(-/KI) sperm were abnormal with defects in the mitochondrial sheath, fibrous sheath, outer dense fiber, and axoneme. Stk33(KI/KI) male mice were subfertile and had oligoasthenozoospermia. Differential phosphoproteomic analysis and in vitro kinase assay identified novel phosphorylation substrates of STK33, fibrous sheath components A-kinase anchoring protein 3 and A-kinase anchoring protein 4, whose expression levels decreased in testis after deletion of Stk33. STK33 regulated the phosphorylation of A-kinase anchoring protein 3/4, affected the assembly of fibrous sheath in the sperm, and played an essential role in spermiogenesis and male infertility.
PXD041372	37146970	PKA mediates modality-specific modulation of the mechanically gated ion channel PIEZO2. 	Multisite phosphorylation by protein kinase A mediates modality-specific modulation of PIEZO2	PIEZO2, Phosphorylation, Protein Kinase A	PKA is a downstream effector of many inflammatory mediators that induce pain hypersensitivity by increasing the mechanosensitivity of nociceptive sensory afferent. Here, we examine the molecular mechanism underlying PKA-dependent modulation of the mechanically activated ion channel PIEZO2, which confers mechanosensitivity to many nociceptors. Using phosphorylation site prediction algorithms, we identified multiple putative and highly conserved PKA phosphorylation sites located on intracellular intrinsically disordered regions of PIEZO2. Site-directed mutagenesis and patch-clamp recordings showed that substitution of one or multiple putative PKA sites within a single intracellular domain does not alter PKA-induced PIEZO2 sensitization, whereas mutation of a combination of nine putative sites located on four different intracellular regions completely abolishes PKA-dependent PIEZO2 modulation, though it remains unclear whether all or just some of these nine sites are required. By demonstrating that PIEZO1 is not modulated by PKA, our data also reveal a previously unrecognized functional difference between PIEZO1 and PIEZO2. Moreover, by demonstrating that PKA only modulates PIEZO2 currents evoked by focal mechanical indentation of the cell, but not currents evoked by pressure-induced membrane stretch, we provide evidence suggesting that PIEZO2 is a polymodal mechanosensor that engages different protein domains for detecting different types of mechanical stimuli.
PXD040200	37147285	KK-LC-1 as a therapeutic target to eliminate ALDH(+) stem cells in triple negative breast cancer. 	KK-LC-1 as a feasible therapeutic target to eliminate ALDH+ stem cells in triple negative breast cancer	ALDH+ stemness, Hippo signaling pathway, TNBC, cancer stem cell, protein-protein inhibitor.	Failure to achieve complete elimination of triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) stem cells after adjuvant therapy is associated with poor outcomes. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ALDH1) is a marker of breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs), and its enzymatic activity regulates tumor stemness. Identifying upstream targets to control ALDH(+) cells may facilitate TNBC tumor suppression. Here, we show that KK-LC-1 determines the stemness of TNBC ALDH(+) cells via binding with FAT1 and subsequently promoting its ubiquitination and degradation. This compromises the Hippo pathway and leads to nuclear translocation of YAP1 and ALDH1A1 transcription. These findings identify the KK-LC-1-FAT1-Hippo-ALDH1A1 pathway in TNBC ALDH(+) cells as a therapeutic target. To reverse the malignancy due to KK-LC-1 expression, we employ a computational approach and discover Z839878730 (Z8) as an small-molecule inhibitor which may disrupt KK-LC-1 and FAT1 binding. We demonstrate that Z8 suppresses TNBC tumor growth via a mechanism that reactivates the Hippo pathway and decreases TNBC ALDH(+) cell stemness and viability.
PXD055618	37147584	iTRAQ-based comparative proteomics reveal an enhancing role of PRDX6 in the freezability of Mediterranean buffalo sperm. 	Comparative proteomic and phosphorylated proteomic analyses revealed differences in sperm motility in Mediterranean buffalo	Mediterranean buffalo, Phosphoproteomics, motility, sperm	BACKGROUND: Semen cryopreservation is a critical tool for breed improvement and preservation of biodiversity. However, instability of sperm freezability affects its application. The Mediterranean buffalo is one of the river-type buffaloes with the capacity for high milk production. Until now, there is no specific cryopreservation system for Mediterranean buffalo, which influences the promotion of excellent cultivars. To improve the semen freezing extender used in cryopreservation of Mediterranean buffalo, different protein datasets relating to freezability sperm were analyzed by iTRAQ-based proteomics. This study will be beneficial for further understanding the sperm freezability mechanism and developing new cryopreservation strategy for buffalo semen. RESULTS: 2652 quantified proteins were identified, including 248 significantly differentially expressed proteins (DEP). Gene Ontology (GO) analysis indicated that many these were mitochondrial proteins, enriched in the molecular function of phospholipase A2 activity and enzyme binding, and biological processes of regulation of protein kinase A signaling and motile cilium assembly. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis identified 17 significant pathways, including oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Furthermore, 7 DEPs were verified using parallel reaction monitoring or western blot, which confirmed the accuracy of the iTRAQ data. Peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6), which expressed 1.72-fold higher in good freezability ejaculate (GFE) compared to poor freezability ejaculate (PFE) sperms, was selected to explore the function in sperm freezability by adding recombinant PRDX6 protein into the semen freezing extender. The results showed that the motility, mitochondrial function and in vitro fertilization capacity of frozen-thawed sperm were significantly increased, while the oxidation level was significantly decreased when 0.1 mg/L PRDX6 was added compared with blank control. CONCLUSIONS: Above results revealed the metabolic pattern of freezability of Mediterranean buffalo sperms was negatively associated with OXPHOS, and PRDX6 had protective effect on cryo-damage of frozen-thawed sperms.
PXD033922	37147804	Targeting long non-coding RNA NUDT6 enhances smooth muscle cell survival and limits vascular disease progression. 	Protein interaction partners of long non-coding RNA NUDT6 in human aortic smooth muscle cells	RNA/Protein Interaction, abdominal aortic aneurysm, long non-coding RNAs, vascular disease	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) orchestrate various biological processes and regulate the development of cardiovascular diseases. Their potential therapeutic benefit to tackle disease progression has recently been extensively explored. Our study investigates the role of lncRNA Nudix Hydrolase 6 (NUDT6) and its antisense target fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) in two vascular pathologies: abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) and carotid artery disease. Using tissue samples from both diseases, we detected a substantial increase of NUDT6, whereas FGF2 was downregulated. Targeting Nudt6 in vivo with antisense oligonucleotides in three murine and one porcine animal model of carotid artery disease and AAA limited disease progression. Restoration of FGF2 upon Nudt6 knockdown improved vessel wall morphology and fibrous cap stability. Overexpression of NUDT6 in vitro impaired smooth muscle cell (SMC) migration, while limiting their proliferation and augmenting apoptosis. By employing RNA pulldown followed by mass spectrometry as well as RNA immunoprecipitation, we identified Cysteine and Glycine Rich Protein 1 (CSRP1) as another direct NUDT6 interaction partner, regulating cell motility and SMC differentiation. Overall, the present study identifies NUDT6 as a well-conserved antisense transcript of FGF2. NUDT6 silencing triggers SMC survival and migration and could serve as a novel RNA-based therapeutic strategy in vascular diseases.
PXD033108	37147936	Discovery and validation of serum glycoprotein biomarkers for high grade serous ovarian cancer. 	Discovery and validation of serum glycoprotein biomarker panel for detection of high grade serous ovarian cancer	LeMBA, STL, glycosylation, lectin, ovarian cancer screening	PURPOSE: This study aimed to identify serum glycoprotein biomarkers for early detection of high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC), the most common and aggressive histotype of ovarian cancer. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The glycoproteomics pipeline lectin magnetic bead array (LeMBA)-mass spectrometry (MS) was used in age-matched case-control serum samples. Clinical samples collected at diagnosis were divided into discovery (n = 30) and validation (n = 98) sets. We also analysed a set of preclinical sera (n = 30) collected prior to HGSOC diagnosis in the UK Collaborative Trial of Ovarian Cancer Screening. RESULTS: A 7-lectin LeMBA-MS/MS discovery screen shortlisted 59 candidate proteins and three lectins. Validation analysis using 3-lectin LeMBA-multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) confirmed elevated A1AT, AACT, CO9, HPT and ITIH3 and reduced A2MG, ALS, IBP3 and PON1 glycoforms in HGSOC. The best performing multimarker signature had 87.7% area under the receiver operating curve, 90.7% specificity and 70.4% sensitivity for distinguishing HGSOC from benign and healthy groups. In the preclinical set, CO9, ITIH3 and A2MG glycoforms were altered in samples collected 11.1 +/- 5.1 months prior to HGSOC diagnosis, suggesting potential for early detection. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our findings provide evidence of candidate early HGSOC serum glycoprotein biomarkers, laying the foundation for further study in larger cohorts.
PXD039999	37148339	Sulfide promotes tolerance to drought through protein persulfidation in Arabidopsis. 	Sulfide promotes tolerance to drought through protein persulfidation in Arabidopsis	Abiotic stress, Abscisic acid, Amino acids, Comparative proteomics, Dimedone switch, Drought, Persulfidation, ROS	Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a signaling molecule that regulates essential plant processes. In this study, the role of H2S during drought was analysed, focusing on the underlying mechanism. Pretreatments with H2S before imposing drought on plants substantially improved the characteristic stressed phenotypes under drought and decreased the levels of typical biochemical stress markers such as anthocyanin, proline, and hydrogen peroxide. H2S also regulated drought-responsive genes and amino acid metabolism, and repressed drought-induced bulk autophagy and protein ubiquitination, demonstrating the protective effects of H2S pretreatment. Quantitative proteomic analysis identified 887 significantly different persulfidated proteins between control and drought stress plants. Bioinformatic analyses of the proteins more persulfidated in drought revealed that the most enriched biological processes were cellular response to oxidative stress and hydrogen peroxide catabolism. Protein degradation, abiotic stress responses, and the phenylpropanoid pathway were also highlighted, suggesting the importance of persulfidation in coping with drought-induced stress. Our findings emphasize the role of H2S as a promoter of enhanced tolerance to drought, enabling plants to respond more rapidly and efficiently. Furthermore, the main role of protein persulfidation in alleviating reactive oxygen species accumulation and balancing redox homeostasis under drought stress is highlighted.
PXD041466	37149634	Broad phosphorylation mediated by testis-specific serine/threonine kinases contributes to spermiogenesis and male fertility. 	proteome-Broad phosphorylation mediated by testis-specific serine/threonine kinases contributes to spermiogenesis and male fertility	drosophila  proteome	Genetic studies elucidate a link between testis-specific serine/threonine kinases (TSSKs) and male infertility in mammals, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here, we identify a TSSK homolog in Drosophila, CG14305 (termed dTSSK), whose mutation impairs the histone-to-protamine transition during spermiogenesis and causes multiple phenotypic defects in nuclear shaping, DNA condensation, and flagellar organization in spermatids. Genetic analysis demonstrates that kinase catalytic activity of dTSSK, which is functionally conserved with human TSSKs, is essential for male fertility. Phosphoproteomics identify 828 phosphopeptides/449 proteins as potential substrates of dTSSK enriched primarily in microtubule-based processes, flagellar organization and mobility, and spermatid differentiation and development, suggesting that dTSSK phosphorylates various proteins to orchestrate postmeiotic spermiogenesis. Among them, the two substrates, protamine-like protein Mst77F/Ser(9) and transition protein Mst33A/Ser(237), are biochemically validated to be phosphorylated by dTSSK in vitro, and are genetically demonstrated to be involved in spermiogenesis in vivo. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that broad phosphorylation mediated by TSSKs plays an indispensable role in spermiogenesis.
PXD040895	37149863	Vaginal epithelial dysfunction is mediated by the microbiome, metabolome, and mTOR signaling. 	Vaginal epithelial dysfunction is mediated by the microbiome, metabolome, and mTOR signaling - Participant Group 1	Bacterial Vaginosis, Microbiome	Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is characterized by depletion of Lactobacillus and overgrowth of anaerobic and facultative bacteria, leading to increased mucosal inflammation, epithelial disruption, and poor reproductive health outcomes. However, the molecular mediators contributing to vaginal epithelial dysfunction are poorly understood. Here we utilize proteomic, transcriptomic, and metabolomic analyses to characterize biological features underlying BV in 405 African women and explore functional mechanisms in vitro. We identify five major vaginal microbiome groups: L. crispatus (21%), L. iners (18%), Lactobacillus (9%), Gardnerella (30%), and polymicrobial (22%). Using multi-omics we show that BV-associated epithelial disruption and mucosal inflammation link to the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway and associate with Gardnerella, M. mulieris, and specific metabolites including imidazole propionate. Experiments in vitro confirm that type strain G. vaginalis and M. mulieris supernatants and imidazole propionate directly affect epithelial barrier function and activation of mTOR pathways. These results find that the microbiome-mTOR axis is a central feature of epithelial dysfunction in BV.
PXD033797	37151120	Caspase cleaves Drosophila BubR1 to modulate spindle assembly checkpoint function and lifespan of the organism. 	TurboID-mediated proximal labeling of Drosophila BubR1 and its cleavage variants	BubR1, Caspase, Drosophila, LFQ, TuboID	Caspases cleave over 1500 substrates in the human proteome in both lethal and non-lethal scenarios. However, reports of the physiological consequences of substrate cleavage are limited. Additionally, the manner in which caspase cleaves only a subset of substrates in the non-lethal scenario remains to be elucidated. BubR1, a spindle assembly checkpoint component, is a caspase substrate in humans, the physiological function of which remains unclear. Here, we found that caspases, especially Drice, cleave Drosophila BubR1 between the N-terminal KEN box motif and C-terminal kinase domain. By using proximity labelling, we found that Drice, but not Dcp-1, is in proximity to BubR1, suggesting that protein proximity facilitates substrate preference. The cleaved fragments displayed altered subcellular localization and protein-protein interactions. Flies that harboured cleavage-resistant BubR1 showed longer duration of BubR1 localization to the kinetochore upon colchicine treatment. Furthermore, these flies showed extended lifespan. Thus, we propose that the caspase-mediated cleavage of BubR1 limits spindle assembly checkpoint and organismal lifespan. Our results highlight the importance of the individual analysis of substrates in vivo to determine the biological significance of caspase-dependent non-lethal cellular processes.
PXD037788	37151195	Nuclear export of BATF2 enhances colorectal cancer proliferation through binding to CRM1. 	LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis of candidate BATF2-binding proteins	BATF2, proteomic analysis	BACKGROUND: During the tumourigenesis and development of colorectal cancer (CRC), the inactivation of tumour suppressor genes is closely involved, although detailed molecular mechanisms remain elusive. Accumulating studies, including ours, have demonstrated that basic leucine zipper transcription factor ATF (activating transcription factor)-like 2 (BATF2) is a capable tumour suppressor that localises in the nucleus. However, its different subcellular localisation, potential functions and underlying mechanisms are unclear. METHODS: The translocation of BATF2 and its clinical relevance were detected using CRC samples, cell lines and xenograft nude mice. Candidate BATF2-binding proteins were screened using co-immunoprecipitation, quantitative label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry proteomic analysis, Western blotting and immunofluorescence. Recombinant plasmids, point mutations and siRNAs were applied to clarify the binding sites between BATF2 and chromosome region maintenance 1 (CRM1). RESULTS: The present study found that BATF2 was mainly localised in the cytoplasm, rather than nucleus, of CRC cells in vitro and in vivo, while cytoplasmic BATF2 expression was inversely correlated with the prognosis of CRC patients. Furthermore, we identified the nuclear export and subsequent ubiquitin-mediated degradation of BATF2 in CRC cells. Mechanistically, a functional nuclear export sequence (any amino acid) was characterised in BATF2 protein, through which BATF2 bound to CRM1 and translocated out of nucleus, ultimately enhancing CRC growth via inducing activator protein 1 (AP-1)/cyclin D1/phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein (pRb) signalling pathway. Additionally, nuclear export of BATF2 can be retarded by the mutation of NES in BATF2 or the knockdown of CRM1, whereas CRM1 expression was negatively associated with nuclear BATF2 expression and the prognosis of CRC patients. CONCLUSION: These findings revealed the biological effects and underlying mechanisms of cytoplasmic localisation of BATF2. Furthermore, suppressing nuclear export of BATF2 via mutating its NES region or inhibiting CRM1 expression may serve as a promising therapeutic strategy against CRC.
PXD036099	37152744	Integrative transcriptome and proteome revealed high-yielding mechanisms of epsilon-poly-L-lysine by Streptomyces albulus. 	Integrative transcriptome and proteome revealed high-yielding mechanisms of epsilon-poly-L-lysine by Streptomyces albulus	physiological, transcriptomic, epsilon-PL	Introduction: epsilon-poly-L-lysine (epsilon-PL) is a high value, widely used natural antimicrobial peptide additive for foods and cosmetic products that is mainly produced by Streptomyces albulus. In previous work, we developed the high-yield industrial strain S. albulus WG-608 through successive rounds of engineering. Methods: Here, we use integrated physiological, transcriptomic, and proteomics association analysis to resolve the complex mechanisms underlying high epsilon-PL production by comparing WG-608 with the progenitor strain M-Z18. Results: Our results show that key genes in the glycolysis, pentose phosphate pathway, glyoxylate pathway, oxidative phosphorylation, and L-lysine biosynthesis pathways are differentially upregulated in WG-608, while genes in the biosynthetic pathways for fatty acids, various branched amino acids, and secondary metabolite by-products are downregulated. This regulatory pattern results in the introduction of more carbon atoms into L-lysine biosynthesis and epsilon-PL production. In addition, significant changes in the regulation of DNA replication, transcription, and translation, two component systems, and quorum sensing may facilitate the adaptability to environmental pressure and the biosynthesis of epsilon-PL. Overexpression of ppk gene and addition of polyP6 further enhanced the epsilon-PL production. Discussion: This study enables comprehensive understanding of the biosynthetic mechanisms of epsilon-PL in S. albulus WG-608, while providing some genetic modification and fermentation strategies to further improve the epsilon-PL production.
PXD041416	37152897	Proteomic profiling of eIF3a conditional knockout mice. 	Proteomic profiling of eIF3a conditional knockout mice	ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), eIF3a, knockout mice, oxidative stress, protein landscape	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit A (eIF3a) is the largest subunit of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3). eIF3a plays an integral role in protein biosynthesis, hence impacting the onset, development, and treatment of tumors. The proteins regulated by eIF3a are still being explored in vivo. In this study, a Cre-loxP system was used to generate eIF3a conditional knockout mice. Tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling with LC-MS/MS analysis was used to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in fat, lungs, skin, and spleen tissue of the eIF3a knockout mice and controls. Bioinformatics analysis was then used to explore the functions and molecular signaling pathways of these protein landscapes. It was observed that eIF3a is essential for life sustenance. Abnormal tissue pathology was found in the lungs, fat, skin, spleen, and thymus. In total, 588, 210, 324, and 944 DEPs were quantified in the lungs, fat, skin, and spleen, respectively, of the eIF3a knockout mice as compared to the control. The quantified differentially expressed proteins were tissue-specific, except for eight proteins shared by the four tissues. A broad range of functions for eIF3a, including cellular signaling pathway, immune response, metabolism, defense response, phagocytes, and DNA replication, has been revealed using bioinformatics analysis. Herein, several pathways related to oxidative stress in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database, including nitrogen metabolism, peroxisome, cytochrome P450 drug metabolism, pyruvate metabolism, PPAR signaling pathway, phospholipase D signaling pathway, B-cell receptor signaling pathway, ferroptosis, and focal adhesion, have been identified. Collectively, this study shows that eIF3a is an essential gene for sustaining life, and its downstream proteins are involved in diverse novel functions beyond mRNA translational regulation.
PXD038291	37153144	Metagenomic next-generation sequencing and proteomics analysis in pediatric viral encephalitis and meningitis. 	Proteomics Analysis in Pediatric Viral Encephalitis and Meningitis	MS-based proteomics, viral meningitis	Introduction: Early and accurate identification of pathogens is essential for improved outcomes in patients with viral encephalitis (VE) and/or viral meningitis (VM). Methods: In our research, Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) which can identify viral pathogens unbiasedly was performed on RNA and DNA to identify potential pathogens in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 50 pediatric patients with suspected VEs and/or VMs. Then we performed proteomics analysis on the 14 HEV-positive CSF samples and another 12 CSF samples from health controls (HCs). A supervised partial least squaresdiscriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and orthogonal PLS-DA (O-PLS-DA) model was performed using proteomics data. Results: Ten viruses in 48% patients were identified and the most common pathogen was human enterovirus (HEV) Echo18. 11 proteins overlapping between the top 20 DEPs in terms of P value and FC and the top 20 proteins in PLS-DA VIP lists were acquired. Discussion: Our result showed mNGS has certain advantages on pathogens identification in VE and VM and our research established a foundation to identify diagnosis biomarker candidates of HEV-positive meningitis based on MS-based proteomics analysis, which could also contribute toward investigating the HEV-specific host response patterns.
PXD035085	37153445	Intrinsic sexual dimorphism in the placenta determines the differential response to benzene exposure. 	Immunological Sexual Dimorphism in Placenta and Its Response to Benzene Exposure	Placenta, benzene exposure, maternal immune activation, pregnancy, sexual dimorphism	Maternal immune activation (MIA) by environmental challenges is linked to severe developmental complications, such as neurocognitive disorders, autism, and even fetal/maternal death. Benzene is a major toxic compound in air pollution that affects the mother as well as the fetus and has been associated with reproductive complications. Our objective was to elucidate whether benzene exposure during gestation triggers MIA and its impact on fetal development. We report that benzene exposure during pregnancy leads MIA associated with increased fetal resorptions, fetal growth, and abnormal placenta development. Furthermore, we demonstrate the existence of a sexual dimorphic response to benzene exposure in male and female placentas. The sexual dimorphic response is a consequence of inherent differences between male and female placenta. These data provide crucial information on the origins or sexual dimorphism and how exposure to environmental factors can have a differential impact on the development of male and female offspring.
PXD038055	37156625	Development and Validation of a Proteomic Correlation Profiling Technique to Detect and Identify Enzymes Involved in Metabolism of Drugs of Concern. 	TMT-16plex analysis of 25 individual human liver microsome and cytosol	drug metabolizing enzymes, human liver cytosol, human liver microsome	To predict the variation of pharmacological or toxicological effect caused by pharmacokinetic variance, it is important to be able to detect previously unknown and unsuspected enzymes involved in drug metabolism. We investigated the use of proteomic correlation profiling (PCP) as a technique to identify the enzymes involved in metabolism of drugs of concern. By evaluating the metabolic activities of each enzyme (including isoforms of cytochrome P450, uridine 5' diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase, and hydrolases, plus aldehyde oxidase and carbonyl reductase) on their typical substrates using a panel of human liver samples, we were able to show the validity of PCP for this purpose. R or Rs and P values were calculated for the association between the protein abundance profile of each protein and the metabolic rate profile of each typical substrate. For the 18 enzymatic activities examined, 13 of the enzymes reported to be responsible for the reactions had correlation coefficients higher than 0.7 and were ranked first to third. For the remaining five activities, the responsible enzymes had correlation coefficients lower than 0.7 and lower rankings. The reasons for this were diverse, including confounding resulting from low protein abundance ratios, artificially high correlations of other enzymes due to limited sample numbers, the presence of inactive enzyme forms, and genetic polymorphisms. Overall, PCP was able to identify the majority of responsible drug-metabolizing enzymes across several enzyme classes (oxidoreductase, transferase, hydrolase); use of this methodology could allow more timely and accurate identification of unknown drug-metabolizing enzymes. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Proteomic correlation profiling using samples from individual human donors was proven to be a useful methodology for the identification of enzymes responsible for drug-metabolism. This methodology could accelerate the identification of unknown drug-metabolizing enzymes in the future.
PXD040084	37156840	Cell-selective proteomics segregates pancreatic cancer subtypes by extracellular proteins in tumors and circulation. 	Cell-selective proteomics segregates pancreatic cancer subtypes by extracellular proteins in tumors and circulation	PDAC, azidonorleucine, cell-selective, extracellular matrix, pancreatic cancer, secretomics, serum, tumor	Cell-selective proteomics is a powerful emerging concept to study heterocellular processes in tissues. However, its high potential to identify non-cell-autonomous disease mechanisms and biomarkers has been hindered by low proteome coverage. Here, we address this limitation and devise a comprehensive azidonorleucine labeling, click chemistry enrichment, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics and secretomics strategy to dissect aberrant signals in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Our in-depth co-culture and in vivo analyses cover more than 10,000 cancer cell-derived proteins and reveal systematic differences between molecular PDAC subtypes. Secreted proteins, such as chemokines and EMT-promoting matrisome proteins, associated with distinct macrophage polarization and tumor stromal composition, differentiate classical and mesenchymal PDAC. Intriguingly, more than 1,600 cancer cell-derived proteins including cytokines and pre-metastatic niche formation-associated factors in mouse serum reflect tumor activity in circulation. Our findings highlight how cell-selective proteomics can accelerate the discovery of diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets in cancer.
PXD032330	37156858	Structure of the actively translating plant 80S ribosome at 2.2 Aa resolution. 	Structure of the plant 80S ribosome.	plant, ribosome, tobacco	In plant cells, translation occurs in three compartments: the cytosol, the plastids and the mitochondria. While the structures of the (prokaryotic-type) ribosomes in plastids and mitochondria are well characterized, high-resolution structures of the eukaryotic 80S ribosomes in the cytosol have been lacking. Here the structure of translating tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) 80S ribosomes was solved by cryo-electron microscopy with a global resolution of 2.2 Aa. The ribosome structure includes two tRNAs, decoded mRNA and the nascent peptide chain, thus providing insights into the molecular underpinnings of the cytosolic translation process in plants. The map displays conserved and plant-specific rRNA modifications and the positions of numerous ionic cofactors, and it uncovers the role of monovalent ions in the decoding centre. The model of the plant 80S ribosome enables broad phylogenetic comparisons that reveal commonalities and differences in the ribosomes of plants and those of other eukaryotes, thus putting our knowledge about eukaryotic translation on a firmer footing.
PXD040322	37156912	Creatine kinase B suppresses ferroptosis by phosphorylating GPX4 through a moonlighting function. 	GPX4 immunoprecipitation in Huh7 cells	CKB, GPX4, IGF1	Activation of receptor protein kinases is prevalent in various cancers with unknown impact on ferroptosis. Here we demonstrated that AKT activated by insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor signalling phosphorylates creatine kinase B (CKB) T133, reduces metabolic activity of CKB and increases CKB binding to glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Importantly, CKB acts as a protein kinase and phosphorylates GPX4 S104. This phosphorylation prevents HSC70 binding to GPX4, thereby abrogating the GPX4 degradation regulated by chaperone-mediated autophagy, alleviating ferroptosis and promoting tumour growth in mice. In addition, the levels of GPX4 are positively correlated with the phosphorylation levels of CKB T133 and GPX4 S104 in human hepatocellular carcinoma specimens and associated with poor prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. These findings reveal a critical mechanism by which tumour cells counteract ferroptosis by non-metabolic function of CKB-enhanced GPX4 stability and underscore the potential to target the protein kinase activity of CKB for cancer treatment.
PXD041476	37158593	Proteomic characteristics reveal the signatures and the risks of T1 colorectal cancer metastasis to lymph nodes. 	Proteomics Characteristics Reveal the Risk of T1 Colorectal Cancer Metastasis to Lymph Nodes	Lymph Nodes Metastasis, T1 Colorectal Cancer	The presence of lymph node metastasis (LNM) affects treatment strategy decisions in T1NxM0 colorectal cancer (CRC), but the currently used clinicopathological-based risk stratification cannot predict LNM accurately. In this study, we detected proteins in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor samples from 143 LNM-negative and 78 LNM-positive patients with T1 CRC and revealed changes in molecular and biological pathways by label-free liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and established classifiers for predicting LNM in T1 CRC. An effective 55-proteins prediction model was built by machine learning and validated in a training cohort (N=132) and two validation cohorts (VC1, N=42; VC2, N=47), achieved an impressive AUC of 1.00 in the training cohort, 0.96 in VC1 and 0.93 in VC2, respectively. We further built a simplified classifier with nine proteins, and achieved an AUC of 0.824. The simplified classifier was performed excellently in two external validation cohorts. The expression patterns of 13 proteins were confirmed by immunohistochemistry, and the IHC score of five proteins was used to build an IHC predict model with an AUC of 0.825. RHOT2 silence significantly enhanced migration and invasion of colon cancer cells. Our study explored the mechanism of metastasis in T1 CRC and can be used to facilitate the individualized prediction of LNM in patients with T1 CRC, which may provide a guidance for clinical practice in T1 CRC.
PXD033385	37159335	Restoring calcium homeostasis in Purkinje cells arrests neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation in the ARSACS mouse model. 	Identifying sacsin interactors. Defining quantitative alterations of the cerebellar proteome in the absence of sacsin.	ARSACS, cerebellum, sacsin	Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is caused by mutations in SACS gene encoding sacsin, a huge protein highly expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs). Patients with ARSACS, as well as mouse models, display early degeneration of PCs, but the underlying mechanisms remain unexplored, with no available treatments. In this work, we demonstrated aberrant calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis and its impact on PC degeneration in ARSACS. Mechanistically, we found pathological elevation in Ca2+-evoked responses in Sacs-/- PCs as the result of defective mitochondria and ER trafficking to distal dendrites and strong downregulation of key Ca2+ buffer proteins. Alteration of cytoskeletal linkers, which we identified as specific sacsin interactors, likely account for faulty organellar trafficking in Sacs-/- cerebellum. Based on this pathogenetic cascade, we treated Sacs-/- mice with Ceftriaxone, a repurposed drug that exerts neuroprotection by limiting neuronal glutamatergic stimulation and, thus, Ca2+ fluxes into PCs. Ceftriaxone treatment significantly improved motor performances of Sacs-/- mice, at both pre- and postsymptomatic stages. We correlated this effect to restored Ca2+ homeostasis, which arrests PC degeneration and attenuates secondary neuroinflammation. These findings disclose key steps in ARSACS pathogenesis and support further optimization of Ceftriaxone in preclinical and clinical settings for the treatment of patients with ARSACS.
PXD033146	37159428	Multi-Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Effect of Protein Lactylation on Matrix and Cholesterol Metabolism in Tendinopathy. 	Quantitative Proteome and Lysine Lactylome of Proteins within Pathological Site of Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy	LC MS/MS, RCT, lysine lactylation, tendon	Tendinopathy is a disease with surging prevalence. Lacking understanding of molecular mechanisms impedes the development of therapeutic approaches and agents. Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a newly discovered post-translational modification related to glycolysis. It has long been noted that manipulation of glycolysis metabolism could affect tendon cell function, tendon homeostasis, and healing process of tendon. However, protein lactylation sites in tendinopathy remain unexplored. Here, we conducted the first proteome-wide Kla analysis in tendon samples harvested from patients with rotator cuff tendinopathy (RCT), which identified 872 Kla sites across 284 proteins. Compared with normal counterparts, 136 Kla sites on 77 proteins were identified as upregulated in the pathological tendon, while 56 sites on 32 proteins were downregulated. Function enrichment analysis demonstrated that the majority of proteins with upregulated Kla levels functioned in organization of the tendon matrix and cholesterol metabolism, accompanied by lower expression levels which meant impaired cholesterol metabolism and degeneration of the tendon matrix, indicating potential cross-talk between protein lactylation and expression levels. At last, by western blotting and immunofluorescence, we verified the correlation between high lactylation and the downregulation of matrix and cholesterol-related proteins including BGN, MYL3, TPM3, and APOC3. ProteomeXchange: PXD033146.
PXD041244	37160114	TIM23 facilitates PINK1 activation by safeguarding against OMA1-mediated degradation in damaged mitochondria. 	Absolute quantification of peptides from TIM23 or PINK1-3HA using AQUA peptides	AQUA, PINK1, TIM23	PINK1 is activated by autophosphorylation and forms a high-molecular-weight complex, thereby initiating the selective removal of damaged mitochondria by autophagy. Other than translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane complexes, members of PINK1-containing protein complexes remain obscure. By mass spectrometric analysis of PINK1 co-immunoprecipitates, we identify the inner membrane protein TIM23 as a component of the PINK1 complex. TIM23 downregulation decreases PINK1 levels and significantly delays autophosphorylation, indicating that TIM23 promotes PINK1 accumulation in response to depolarization. Moreover, inactivation of the mitochondrial protease OMA1 not only enhances PINK1 accumulation but also represses the reduction in PINK1 levels induced by TIM23 downregulation, suggesting that TIM23 facilitates PINK1 activation by safeguarding against degradation by OMA1. Indeed, deficiencies of pathogenic PINK1 mutants that fail to interact with TIM23 are partially restored by OMA1 inactivation. These findings indicate that TIM23 plays a distinct role in activating mitochondrial autophagy by protecting PINK1.
PXD035833	37160285	Structural and proteomic repercussions of growth hormone receptor deficiency on the pituitary gland: Lessons from a translational pig model. 	Structural and proteomic repercussions of growth hormone receptor deficiency on the pituitary gland - lessons from a translational pig model	Brain, Growth hormone receptor deficiency, animal model, pig	Growth hormone receptor deficiency (GHRD) results in low serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) and high, but non-functional serum growth hormone (GH) levels in human Laron syndrome (LS) patients and animal models. This study investigated the quantitative histomorphological and molecular alterations associated with GHRD. Pituitary glands from 6 months old growth hormone receptor deficient (GHR-KO) and control pigs were analyzed using a quantitative histomorphological approach in paraffin (9 GHR-KO [5 males, 4 females] vs. 11 controls [5 males, 6 females]), ultrathin sections tissue sections (3 male GHR-KO vs. 3 male controls) and label-free proteomics (4 GHR-KO vs. 4 control pigs [2 per sex]). GHR-KO pigs displayed reduced body weights (60% reduction in comparison to controls; p < .0001) and decreased pituitary volumes (54% reduction in comparison to controls; p < .0001). The volume proportion of the adenohypophysis did not differ in GHR-KO and control pituitaries (65% vs. 71%; p = .0506) and GHR-KO adenohypophyses displayed a reduced absolute volume but an unaltered volume density of somatotrophs in comparison to controls (21% vs. 18%; p = .3164). In GHR-KO pigs, somatotroph cells displayed a significantly reduced volume density of granules (23.5%) as compared to controls (67.7%; p < .0001). Holistic proteome analysis of adenohypophysis samples identified 4660 proteins, of which 592 were differentially abundant between the GHR-KO and control groups. In GHR-KO samples, the abundance of somatotropin precursor was decreased, whereas increased abundances of proteins involved in protein production, transport and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress were revealed. Increased protein production and secretion as well as significantly reduced proportion of GH-storing granules in somatotroph cells of the adenohypophysis without an increase in volume density of somatotroph cells in the adenohypophysis could explain elevated serum GH levels in GHR-KO pigs.
PXD041500	37162361	p38MAPK- and GSK3-Mediated Phosphorylation of Snakehead Vesiculovirus Phosphoprotein at Threonine 160 Facilitates Viral Replication. 	Phosphoproteome of SHVV-infection CCO cell	channel catfish ovary (CCO) cells, phosphorylation, snakehead vesiculovirus(SHVV)	Phosphoprotein (P), co-factor of the polymerase (large protein, L) of single-stranded negative-sense RNA viruses, is phosphorylated during viral infection and its phosphorylation has been reported to play important roles in viral replication. However, the function of P phosphorylation in viral replication is still far from clear. Snakehead vesiculovirus (SHVV) is a kind of fish rhabdovirus that has caused serious economic losses in snakehead fish culture in China without any effective preventive or therapeutical measures currently. In this study, 4D label-free phosphoproteomics sequencing of SHVV-infected cells identified five phosphorylated sites on SHVV P, among which threonine 160 (T160) was proved to be phosphorylated. Overexpression of wild-type P, but not P-T160A or P-T160E mutant, promoted SHVV replication, suggesting that the T160 phosphorylation on the P protein is critical for SHVV replication. Moreover, we found that T160A or T160E mutation on SHVV P had no effect on the interactions of P-nucleoprotein (N), P-P, or P-L. Further study revealed that p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) interacted with SHVV P and mediated the T160 phosphorylation. Besides, overexpression of p38MAPK or GSK3 facilitated, while knockdown or activity inhibition of p38MAPK or GSK3 suppressed, SHVV replication. Overall, p38MAPK- and GSK3-mediated phosphorylation of the P protein at T160 is required for SHVV replication, which provided targets for designing anti-SHVV drugs and developing live-attenuated SHVV vaccines. Our study helps understand the role of P phosphorylation in the replication of single-stranded negative-sense RNA viruses. IMPORTANCE Phosphorylation of viral proteins plays important roles in viral replication. Currently, the role of phosphorylation of phosphoprotein (P) in the replication of single-stranded negative-sense RNA viruses is far from clear. Identification of the phosphorylated sites on viral P protein and the related host kinases is helpful for developing live-attenuated vaccines and designing antiviral drugs. This study focused on identifying the phosphorylated sites on P protein of a fish rhabdovirus SHVV, determining the related host kinases, and revealing the effects of the phosphorylated sites and kinases on SHVV replication. We found that SHVV P was phosphorylated at T160, which was mediated by the kinases p38MAPK and GSK3 to promote SHVV replication. This study is the first time to study the role of P phosphorylation in fish rhabdovirus replication.
PXD030768	37163591	Global crotonylatome and GWAS revealed a TaSRT1-TaPGK model regulating wheat cold tolerance through mediating pyruvate. 	Global crotonylatome and function analysis of lysine-crotonylated proteins in wheat response to cold stress	Cold stress, ROS, TaPGK, common wheat, crotonylatome	Here, we reported the complete profiling of the crotonylation proteome in common wheat. Through a combination of crotonylation and multi-omics analysis, we identified a TaPGK associated with wheat cold stress. Then, we confirmed the positive role of TaPGK-modulating wheat cold tolerance. Meanwhile, we found that cold stress induced lysine crotonylation of TaPGK. Moreover, we screened a lysine decrotonylase TaSRT1 interacting with TaPGK and found that TaSRT1 negatively regulated wheat cold tolerance. We subsequently demonstrated TaSRT1 inhibiting the accumulation of TaPGK protein, and this inhibition was possibly resulted from decrotonylation of TaPGK by TaSRT1. Transcriptome sequencing indicated that overexpression of TaPGK activated glycolytic key genes and thereby increased pyruvate content. Moreover, we found that exogenous application of pyruvate sharply enhanced wheat cold tolerance. These findings suggest that the TaSRT1-TaPGK model regulating wheat cold tolerance is possibly through mediating pyruvate. This study provided two valuable cold tolerance genes and dissected diverse mechanism of glycolytic pathway involving in wheat cold stress.
PXD038547	37163594	Intercellular communication within the virus microenvironment affects the susceptibility of cells to secondary viral infections. 	Proteome characterization of HCMV virus microenvironment	HCMV, cell cycle, innate immunity, membrane contact sites, susceptibility, virus microenvironment	Communication between infected cells and cells in the surrounding tissue is a determinant of viral spread. However, it remains unclear how cells in close or distant proximity to an infected cell respond to primary or secondary infections. We establish a cell-based system to characterize a virus microenvironment, distinguishing infected, neighboring, and distal cells. Cell sorting, microscopy, proteomics, and cell cycle assays allow resolving cellular features and functional consequences of proximity to infection. We show that human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection primes neighboring cells for both subsequent HCMV infections and secondary infections with herpes simplex virus 1 and influenza A. Neighboring cells exhibit mitotic arrest, dampened innate immunity, and altered extracellular matrix. Conversely, distal cells are poised to slow viral spread due to enhanced antiviral responses. These findings demonstrate how infection reshapes the microenvironment through intercellular signaling to facilitate spread and how spatial proximity to an infection guides cell fate.
PXD036407	37163662	Bi-allelic variants of FILIP1 cause congenital myopathy, dysmorphism and neurological defects. 	Bi-allelic variants of FILIP1 cause a congenital syndrome defined by facial dysmorphisms and a broad range of neurological manifestations	FLNA, FLNC, MFM/ myofibrillar myopathy, protein aggregate myopathy, vacuolar myopathy	Filamin-A-interacting protein 1 (FILIP1) is a structural protein that is involved in neuronal and muscle function and integrity and interacts with FLNa and FLNc. Pathogenic variants in filamin-encoding genes have been linked to neurological disorders (FLNA) and muscle diseases characterized by myofibrillar perturbations (FLNC), but human diseases associated with FILIP1 variants have not yet been described. Here, we report on five patients from four unrelated consanguineous families with homozygous FILIP1 variants (two nonsense and two missense). Functional studies indicated altered stability of the FILIP1 protein carrying the p.[Pro1133Leu] variant. Patients exhibit a broad spectrum of neurological symptoms including brain malformations, neurodevelopmental delay, muscle weakness and pathology and dysmorphic features. Electron and immunofluorescence microscopy on the muscle biopsy derived from the patient harbouring the homozygous p.[Pro1133Leu] missense variant revealed core-like zones of myofibrillar disintegration, autophagic vacuoles and accumulation of FLNc. Proteomic studies on the fibroblasts derived from the same patient showed dysregulation of a variety of proteins including FLNc and alpha-B-crystallin, a finding (confirmed by immunofluorescence) which is in line with the manifestation of symptoms associated with the syndromic phenotype of FILIP1opathy. The combined findings of this study show that the loss of functional FILIP1 leads to a recessive disorder characterized by neurological and muscular manifestations as well as dysmorphic features accompanied by perturbed proteostasis and myopathology.
PXD031395	37164154	AdipoR2 recruits protein interactors to promote fatty acid elongation and membrane fluidity. 	The AdipoR2 protein recruits an ER-localized fatty acid elongation complex to promote membrane homeostasis	AdipoR2, PAQR-2, c.elegans, phospholipids	The human AdipoR2 and its Caenorhabditis elegans homolog PAQR-2 are multipass plasma membrane proteins that protect cells against membrane rigidification. However, how AdipoR2 promotes membrane fluidity mechanistically is not clear. Using 13C-labeled fatty acids, we show that AdipoR2 can promote the elongation and incorporation of membrane-fluidizing polyunsaturated fatty acids into phospholipids. To elucidate the molecular basis of these activities, we performed immunoprecipitations of tagged AdipoR2 and PAQR-2 expressed in HEK293 cells or whole C. elegans, respectively, and identified coimmunoprecipitated proteins using mass spectrometry. We found that several of the evolutionarily conserved AdipoR2/PAQR-2 interactors are important for fatty acid elongation and incorporation into phospholipids. We experimentally verified some of these interactions, namely, with the dehydratase HACD3 that is essential for the third of four steps in long-chain fatty acid elongation and ACSL4 that is important for activation of unsaturated fatty acids and their channeling into phospholipids. We conclude that AdipoR2 and PAQR-2 can recruit protein interactors to promote the production and incorporation of unsaturated fatty acids into phospholipids.
PXD035468	37164942	Comprehensive Evaluation and Optimization of the Data-Dependent LC-MS/MS Workflow for Deep Proteome Profiling. 	MSRefine: comprehensive evaluation of the data-dependent LC-MS/MS workflow	DDA, LC-MS/MS, MSRefine	Data-dependent liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) is widely used in proteomic analyses. A well-performed LC-MS/MS workflow, which involves multiple procedures and interdependent metrics, is a prerequisite for deep proteome profiling. Researchers have previously evaluated LC-MS/MS performance mainly based on the number of identified peptides and proteins. However, this is not a comprehensive approach. This motivates us to develop MSRefine, which aims to evaluate and optimize the performance of the LC-MS/MS workflow for data-dependent acquisition (DDA) proteomics. It extracts 47 kinds of metrics, scores the metrics, and reports visual results, assisting users in evaluating the workflow, locating problems, and providing optimizing strategies. In this study, we compared and analyzed multiple pairs of datasets spanning different samples, methods, and instruments and demonstrated that the comprehensive visual metrics and scores in MSRefine enable us to evaluate the performance of the various experiments and provide optimal strategies for the identification of more peptides and proteins.
PXD032175	37165152	Quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics of urinary extracellular vesicles define putative diagnostic biosignatures for Parkinson's disease. 	Quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics of urinary extracellular vesicles define putative diagnostic biosignatures for Parkinson's disease	Biomarker discovery, Exosomes, Extracellular vesicles, LC-MS, Parkinsons disease, Phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene have been recognized as genetic risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, compared to cancer, fewer genetic mutations contribute to the cause of PD, propelling the search for protein biomarkers for early detection of the disease. METHODS: Utilizing 138 urine samples from four groups, healthy individuals (control), healthy individuals with G2019S mutation in the LRRK2 gene (non-manifesting carrier/NMC), PD individuals without G2019S mutation (idiopathic PD/iPD), and PD individuals with G2019S mutation (LRRK2 PD), we applied a proteomics strategy to determine potential diagnostic biomarkers for PD from urinary extracellular vesicles (EVs). RESULTS: After efficient isolation of urinary EVs through chemical affinity followed by mass spectrometric analyses of EV peptides and enriched phosphopeptides, we identify and quantify 4476 unique proteins and 2680 unique phosphoproteins. We detect multiple proteins and phosphoproteins elevated in PD EVs that are known to be involved in important PD pathways, in particular the autophagy pathway, as well as neuronal cell death, neuroinflammation, and formation of amyloid fibrils. We establish a panel of proteins and phosphoproteins as novel candidates for disease biomarkers and substantiate the biomarkers using machine learning, ROC, clinical correlation, and in-depth network analysis. Several putative disease biomarkers are further partially validated in patients with PD using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and immunoassay for targeted quantitation. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate a general strategy of utilizing biofluid EV proteome/phosphoproteome as an outstanding and non-invasive source for a wide range of disease exploration.
PXD012982	37166481	Comparative proteome analysis identifies species-specific signature proteins in Aspergillus pathogens. 	Identification of the early exoproteome of pathogenic Aspergilli, Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus fumigatus	A. flavus, A. fumigatus, conidia, exoproteome	Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus fumigatus are important human pathogens that can infect the lung and cornea. During infection, Aspergillus dormant conidia are the primary morphotype that comes in contact with the host. As the conidial surface-associated proteins (CSPs) and the extracellular proteins during the early stages of growth play a crucial role in establishing infection, we profiled and compared these proteins between a clinical strain of A. flavus and a clinical strain of A. fumigatus. We identified nearly 100 CSPs in both Aspergillus, and these non-covalently associated surface proteins were able to stimulate the neutrophils to secrete interleukin IL-8. Mass spectrometry analysis identified more than 200 proteins in the extracellular space during the early stages of conidial growth and germination (early exoproteome). The conidial surface proteins and the early exoproteome of A. fumigatus were enriched with immunoreactive proteins and those with pathogenicity-related functions while that of the A. flavus were primarily enzymes involved in cell wall reorganization and binding. Comparative proteome analysis of the CSPs and the early exoproteome between A. flavus and A. fumigatus enabled the identification of a common core proteome and potential species-specific signature proteins. Transcript analysis of selected proteins indicate that the transcript-protein level correlation does not exist for all proteins and might depend on factors such as membrane-anchor signals and protein half-life. The probable signature proteins of A. flavus and A. fumigatus identified in this study can serve as potential candidates for developing species-specific diagnostic tests. KEY POINTS: * CSPs and exoproteins could differentiate A. flavus and A. fumigatus. * A. fumigatus conidial surface harbored more antigenic proteins than A. flavus. * Identified species-specific signature proteins of A. flavus and A. fumigatus.
PXD041590	37167062	HAPSTR1 localizes HUWE1 to the nucleus to limit stress signaling pathways. 	HAPSTR1 localizes HUWE1 to the nucleus to limit stress signaling pathways	HAPSTR1, HUWE1, ligase, substrates, ubiquitin	HUWE1 is a large, enigmatic HECT-domain ubiquitin ligase implicated in the regulation of diverse pathways, including DNA repair, apoptosis, and differentiation. How HUWE1 engages its structurally diverse substrates and how HUWE1 activity is regulated are unknown. Using unbiased quantitative proteomics, we find that HUWE1 targets substrates in a largely cell-type-specific manner. However, we identify C16orf72/HAPSTR1 as a robust HUWE1 substrate in multiple cell lines. Previously established physical and genetic interactions between HUWE1 and HAPSTR1 suggest that HAPSTR1 positively regulates HUWE1 function. Here, we show that HAPSTR1 is required for HUWE1 nuclear localization and nuclear substrate targeting. Nuclear HUWE1 is required for both cell proliferation and modulation of stress signaling pathways, including p53 and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)-mediated signaling. Combined, our results define a role for HAPSTR1 in gating critical nuclear HUWE1 functions.
PXD040455	37167627	HyperSCP: Combining Isotopic and Isobaric Labeling for Higher Throughput Single-Cell Proteomics. 	HyperSCP: Combining Isotopic and Isobaric Labeling for Higher Throughput Single-Cell Proteomics	high-throughput, multiplex, single-cell proteomics	Recent developments in mass spectrometry-based single-cell proteomics (SCP) have resulted in dramatically improved sensitivity, yet the relatively low measurement throughput remains a limitation. Isobaric and isotopic labeling methods have been separately applied to SCP to increase throughput through multiplexing. Here we combined both forms of labeling to achieve multiplicative scaling for higher throughput. Two-plex stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and isobaric tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling enabled up to 28 single cells to be analyzed in a single liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis, in addition to carrier, reference, and negative control channels. A custom nested nanowell chip was used for nanoliter sample processing to minimize sample losses. Using a 145-min total LC-MS cycle time, ~280 single cells were analyzed per day. This measurement throughput could be increased to ~700 samples per day with a high-duty-cycle multicolumn LC system producing the same active gradient. The labeling efficiency and achievable proteome coverage were characterized for multiple analysis conditions.
PXD036612	37169079	Degradomic Identification of Membrane Type 1-Matrix Metalloproteinase as an ADAMTS9 and ADAMTS20 Substrate. 	Degradomic identification of membrane type 1-matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP/MMP14) as an ADAMTS9 and ADAMTS20 substrate	ADAMTS20, ADAMTS9, MMP14, Mt1-MMP, RPE-1 cells, ciliogenesis, extracellular matrix	The secreted metalloproteases ADAMTS9 and ADAMTS20 are implicated in extracellular matrix proteolysis and primary cilium biogenesis. Here, we show that clonal gene-edited RPE-1 cells in which ADAMTS9 was inactivated, and which constitutively lack ADAMTS20 expression, have morphologic characteristics distinct from parental RPE-1 cells. To investigate underlying proteolytic mechanisms, a quantitative terminomics method, terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates was used to compare the parental and gene-edited RPE-1 cells and their medium to identify ADAMTS9 substrates. Among differentially abundant neo-amino (N) terminal peptides arising from secreted and transmembrane proteins, a peptide with lower abundance in the medium of gene-edited cells suggested cleavage at the Tyr(314)-Gly(315) bond in the ectodomain of the transmembrane metalloprotease membrane type 1-matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP), whose mRNA was also reduced in gene-edited cells. This cleavage, occurring in the MT1-MMP hinge, that is, between the catalytic and hemopexin domains, was orthogonally validated both by lack of an MT1-MMP catalytic domain fragment in the medium of gene-edited cells and restoration of its release from the cell surface by reexpression of ADAMTS9 and ADAMTS20 and was dependent on hinge O-glycosylation. A C-terminally semitryptic MT1-MMP peptide with greater abundance in WT RPE-1 medium identified a second ADAMTS9 cleavage site in the MT1-MMP hemopexin domain. Consistent with greater retention of MT1-MMP on the surface of gene-edited cells, pro-MMP2 activation, which requires cell surface MT1-MMP, was increased. MT1-MMP knockdown in gene-edited ADAMTS9/20-deficient cells restored focal adhesions but not ciliogenesis. The findings expand the web of interacting proteases at the cell surface, suggest a role for ADAMTS9 and ADAMTS20 in regulating cell surface activity of MT1-MMP, and indicate that MT1-MMP shedding does not underlie their observed requirement in ciliogenesis.
PXD041573	37169754	Molecular basis for recognition and deubiquitination of 40S ribosomes by Otu2. 	Molecular basis for recognition and deubiquitination of 40S ribosomes by Otu2	OTU2, Translation, UBP3, pulldown, ubiquitination	In actively translating 80S ribosomes the ribosomal protein eS7 of the 40S subunit is monoubiquitinated by the E3 ligase Not4 and deubiquitinated by Otu2 upon ribosomal subunit recycling. Despite its importance for translation efficiency the exact role and structural basis for this translational reset is poorly understood. Here, structural analysis by cryo-electron microscopy of native and reconstituted Otu2-bound ribosomal complexes reveals that Otu2 engages 40S subunits mainly between ribosome recycling and initiation stages. Otu2 binds to several sites on the intersubunit surface of the 40S that are not occupied by any other 40S-binding factors. This binding mode explains the discrimination against 80S ribosomes via the largely helical N-terminal domain of Otu2 as well as the specificity for mono-ubiquitinated eS7 on 40S. Collectively, this study reveals mechanistic insights into the Otu2-driven deubiquitination steps for translational reset during ribosome recycling/(re)initiation.
PXD038282	37169797	The cell wall lipoprotein CD1687 acts as a DNA binding protein during deoxycholate-induced biofilm formation in Clostridioides difficile. 	The cell wall lipoprotein CD1687 acts as a DNA binding protein during deoxycholate-induced biofilm formation in Clostridioides difficile	Biofilm, CD1687, Clostridioides difficile	The ability of bacterial pathogens to establish recurrent and persistent infections is frequently associated with their ability to form biofilms. Clostridioides difficile infections have a high rate of recurrence and relapses and it is hypothesized that biofilms are involved in its pathogenicity and persistence. Biofilm formation by C. difficile is still poorly understood. It has been shown that specific molecules such as deoxycholate (DCA) or metronidazole induce biofilm formation, but the mechanisms involved remain elusive. In this study, we describe the role of the C. difficile lipoprotein CD1687 during DCA-induced biofilm formation. We showed that the expression of CD1687, which is part of an operon within the CD1685-CD1689 gene cluster, is controlled by multiple transcription starting sites and some are induced in response to DCA. Only CD1687 is required for biofilm formation and the overexpression of CD1687 is sufficient to induce biofilm formation. Using RNAseq analysis, we showed that CD1687 affects the expression of transporters and metabolic pathways and we identified several potential binding partners by pull-down assay, including transport-associated extracellular proteins. We then demonstrated that CD1687 is surface exposed in C. difficile, and that this localization is required for DCA-induced biofilm formation. Given this localization and the fact that C. difficile forms eDNA-rich biofilms, we confirmed that CD1687 binds DNA in a non-specific manner. We thus hypothesize that CD1687 is a component of the downstream response to DCA leading to biofilm formation by promoting interaction between the cells and the biofilm matrix by binding eDNA.
PXD040349	37169869	Metabolic influence of core ciliates within the rumen microbiome. 	Integrative multi-omics investigation of microbes responsible for methne emission from cows fed either an ad lib or restricted diet	TEAGASC, metagenomics, metaproteomics	Protozoa comprise a major fraction of the microbial biomass in the rumen microbiome, of which the entodiniomorphs (order: Entodiniomorphida) and holotrichs (order: Vestibuliferida) are consistently observed to be dominant across a diverse genetic and geographical range of ruminant hosts. Despite the apparent core role that protozoal species exert, their major biological and metabolic contributions to rumen function remain largely undescribed in vivo. Here, we have leveraged (meta)genome-centric metaproteomes from rumen fluid samples originating from both cattle and goats fed diets with varying inclusion levels of lipids and starch, to detail the specific metabolic niches that protozoa occupy in the context of their microbial co-habitants. Initial proteome estimations via total protein counts and label-free quantification highlight that entodiniomorph species Entodinium and Epidinium as well as the holotrichs Dasytricha and Isotricha comprise an extensive fraction of the total rumen metaproteome. Proteomic detection of protozoal metabolism such as hydrogenases (Dasytricha, Isotricha, Epidinium, Enoploplastron), carbohydrate-active enzymes (Epidinium, Diplodinium, Enoploplastron, Polyplastron), microbial predation (Entodinium) and volatile fatty acid production (Entodinium and Epidinium) was observed at increased levels in high methane-emitting animals. Despite certain protozoal species having well-established reputations for digesting starch, they were unexpectedly less detectable in low methane emitting-animals fed high starch diets, which were instead dominated by propionate/succinate-producing bacterial populations suspected of being resistant to predation irrespective of host. Finally, we reaffirmed our abovementioned observations in geographically independent datasets, thus illuminating the substantial metabolic influence that under-explored eukaryotic populations have in the rumen, with greater implications for both digestion and methane metabolism.
PXD035456	37170190	The rapid detection of procalcitonin in septic serum using immunoaffinity MALDI chips. 	Rapid Detection of Procalcitonin in septic serum  by Immunoaffinity MALDI Chips	MALDI-TOF, Procalcitonin, immunoaffinity chips, sepsis	BACKGROUND: Sepsis is a common worldwide health condition with high mortality. It is caused by a dysregulated immune response to the pathogen. Severe infections resulting in sepsis can be also determined by monitoring several bloodstream biomarkers, one of them being pro-hormone procalcitonin (PCT). PCT concentration in the bloodstream correlates well with sepsis and in severe cases increases up to a thousand times from the healthy physiological values in a short time. In this study, we developed a rapid technique for PCT detection by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, that uses in-situ enrichment directly on the specialized immuno MALDI chips that are utilized as MALDI plates. The method's ability to detect PCT was confirmed by comparing the results with LC-MS bottom-up workflow. The new method detects intact PCT by its m/z and uncovers its alternations in septic serum. METHODS: The MALDI chips used for the detection of PCT were prepared by ambient ion soft landing of anti-PCT antibody on an ITO glass slide. The chips were used for the development of the rapid MALDI-TOF MS method. A parallel method based on affinity enrichment on magnetic beads followed by LC-MS/MS data-dependent peptide microsequencing was used to prove PCT presence in the sample. All samples were also tested by ELISA to determine PCT concentration prior to analyzing them by mass spectrometry methods. RESULTS: The MALDI chip method was optimized using recombinant PCT spiked into the human serum. The PCT detection limit was 10 ng/mL. The optimized method was used to analyze 13 sera from patients suffering sepsis. The PCT results were confirmed by LC-MS/MS. The measurement of the intact PCT by the MALDI chip method revealed that sera of patients with severe sepsis have other forms of PCT present, which show post-processing of the primary sequence by cleavage of PCT, resulting in the formation of N and C termini fragments. CONCLUSIONS: Procalcitonin from human serum was successfully enriched and detected using immunoaffinity MALDI chips. The intact PCT was characterized in 13 septic patients. The method is more specific compared to non-MS-based immunoaffinity techniques and allows observation of different variants of PCT in septic patients.
PXD037976	37170215	Human pancreatic cancer patients with Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition and an aggressive phenotype show a disturbed balance in Protein Phosphatase Type 2A expression and functionality. 	Disturbed Balance of Protein Phosphatase Type 2A (PP2A) is Driving Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition in Human Pan-creatic Cancer Patients	Epithelial-to-mesenchymal progression, Pancreatic cancer, Protein phosphatases type 2A, drug target, gene expression, in vivo results	BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a low survival, its incidence is rising and little therapeutic improvements are expected in the near future. It has been observed that Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal transition (EMT) contributes (including in PDAC) to a more aggressive cancer phenotype. Additionally, largely unexplored, studies indicate a mechanistic interplay between Protein Phosphatase Type 2A (PP2A) enzymes and EMT that could offer treatment opportunities. The aim was to investigate the relation of a PP2A expression signature (encompassing all PP2A subunits, endogenous inhibitors and activators) with EMT and aggressive pancreatic cancer, and to discuss possible implications. METHODS: We retrieved different PDAC expression datasets from NCBI to capture the variation in patients, and analyzed these using datamining, survival analysis, differential gene and protein expression. We determined genes highly associated with aggressive PDAC. For in vitro evaluation, Panc-1 cells were treated with the pharmacologic PP2A inhibitor Okadaic Acid (OA). Additionally, two OA-resistant Panc-1 clones were developed and characterized. RESULTS: In patients, there is a strong correlation between EMT and aggressive PDAC, and between aggressive PDAC and PP2A, with a significant upregulation of PP2A inhibitor genes. Several PP2A genes significantly correlated with decreased survival. In vitro, short-term exposure to OA induced EMT in Panc-1 cells. This shift towards EMT was further pronounced in the OA-resistant Panc-1 clones, morphologically and by pathway analysis. Proteomic analysis and gene sequencing showed that the advanced OA-resistant model most resembles the clinical PDAC presentation (with EMT signature, and with several specific PP2A genes upregulated, and others downregulated). CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated a strong association between EMT, altered PP2A expression and aggressive PDAC in patients. Also, in vitro, PP2A inhibition induces EMT. Overall, statistics suggests the mechanistic importance of PP2A dysregulation for PDAC progression. Translationally, our observations indicate that pharmacologic restoration of PP2A activity could be an attractive therapeutic strategy to block or reverse progression.
PXD036307	37170646	Global profiling of lysine lactylation in human lungs. 	Global Profiling of the Lysine Lactylation in Human Lung	Lysine lactylation, human lung, post-translational modification	Lactate is closely related to various cellular processes, such as angiogenesis, responses to hypoxia, and macrophage polarization, while regulating natural immune signaling pathways and promoting neurogenesis and cognitive function. Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a novel posttranslational modification, the examination of which may lead to new understanding of the nonmetabolic functions of lactate and the various physiological and pathological processes in which lactate is involved, such as infection, tumorigenesis and tumor development. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), researchers have identified lactylation in human gastric cancer cells and some other species, but no research on lactylation in human lungs has been reported. In this study, we performed global profiling of lactylation in human lungs under normal physiological conditions, and 724 Kla sites in 451 proteins were identified. After comparing the identified proteins with those reported in human lactylation datasets, 141 proteins that undergo lactylation were identified for the first time in this study. Our work expands the database on human lactylation and helps advance the study on lactylation function and regulation under physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD040680	37171072	Deciphering Phenotypes from Protein Biomarkers for Translational Research with PIPER. 	Targeted Proteomics of Lung Squamous Cell Carcinomas	Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma, multiple reaction monitoring	Liquid chromatography-multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (LC-MRM) has widespread clinical use for detection of inborn errors of metabolism, therapeutic drug monitoring, and numerous other applications. This technique detects proteolytic peptides as surrogates for protein biomarker expression, mutation, and post-translational modification in individual clinical assays and in cancer research with highly multiplexed quantitation across biological pathways. LC-MRM for protein biomarkers must be translated from multiplexed research-grade panels to clinical use. LC-MRM panels provide the capability to quantify clinical biomarkers and emerging protein markers to establish the context of tumor phenotypes that provide highly relevant supporting information. An application to visualize and communicate targeted proteomics data will empower translational researchers to move protein biomarker panels from discovery to clinical use. Therefore, we have developed a web-based tool for targeted proteomics that provides pathway-level evaluations of key biological drivers (e.g., EGFR signaling), signature scores (representing phenotypes) (e.g., EMT), and the ability to quantify specific drug targets across a sample cohort. This tool represents a framework for integrating summary information, decision algorithms, and risk scores to support Physician-Interpretable Phenotypic Evaluation in R (PIPER) that can be reused or repurposed by other labs to communicate and interpret their own biomarker panels.
PXD017501	37171075	APOE expression and secretion are modulated by mitochondrial dysfunction. 	Proteomics of of SLC25A1 and SLC25A4 null cells using TMT	Human TMT	Mitochondria influence cellular function through both cell-autonomous and non-cell autonomous mechanisms, such as production of paracrine and endocrine factors. Here, we demonstrate that mitochondrial regulation of the secretome is more extensive than previously appreciated, as both genetic and pharmacological disruption of the electron transport chain caused upregulation of the Alzheimer's disease risk factor apolipoprotein E (APOE) and other secretome components. Indirect disruption of the electron transport chain by gene editing of SLC25A mitochondrial membrane transporters as well as direct genetic and pharmacological disruption of either complexes I, III, or the copper-containing complex IV of the electron transport chain elicited upregulation of APOE transcript, protein, and secretion, up to 49-fold. These APOE phenotypes were robustly expressed in diverse cell types and iPSC-derived human astrocytes as part of an inflammatory gene expression program. Moreover, age- and genotype-dependent decline in brain levels of respiratory complex I preceded an increase in APOE in the 5xFAD mouse model. We propose that mitochondria act as novel upstream regulators of APOE-dependent cellular processes in health and disease.
PXD033749	37174638	Sperm Motility Annotated Genes: Are They Associated with Impaired Fecundity? 	Sperm motility annotated genes: are they associated with impaired fecundity?	fertility, sperm motility	Sperm motility is a prerequisite for achieving pregnancy, and alterations in sperm motility, along with sperm count and morphology, are commonly observed in subfertile men. The aim of the study was to determine whether the expression level of genes annotated with the Gene Ontology (GO) term 'sperm motility' differed in sperm collected from healthy men and men diagnosed with oligoasthenozoospermia. Reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR), quantitative mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and enrichment analyses were used to validate a set of 132 genes in 198 men present at an infertility clinic. Out of the 132 studied sperm-motility-associated genes, 114 showed differentially expressed levels in oligoasthenozoospermic men compared to those of normozoospermic controls using an RT-qPCR analysis. Of these, 94 genes showed a significantly lower expression level, and 20 genes showed a significantly higher expression level. An MS analysis of sperm from an independent cohort of healthy and subfertile men identified 692 differentially expressed proteins, of which 512 were significantly lower and 180 were significantly higher in oligoasthenozoospermic men compared to those of the normozoospermic controls. Of the 58 gene products quantified with both techniques, 48 (82.75%) showed concordant regulation. Besides the sperm-motility-associated proteins, the unbiased proteomics approach uncovered several novel proteins whose expression levels were specifically altered in abnormal sperm samples. Among these deregulated proteins, there was a clear overrepresentation of annotation terms related to sperm integrity, the cytoskeleton, and energy-related metabolism, as well as human phenotypes related to spermatogenesis and sperm-related abnormalities. These findings suggest that many of these proteins may serve as diagnostic markers of male infertility. Our study reveals an extended number of sperm-motility-associated genes with altered expression levels in the sperm of men with oligoasthenozoospermia. These genes and/or proteins can be used in the future for better assessments of male factor infertility.
PXD041856	37174723	New Insights into the Impact of Human Papillomavirus on Oral Cancer in Young Patients: Proteomic Approach Reveals a Novel Role for S100A8. 	New Insights into the impact of Human Papillomavirus on Oral Cancer in Young Patients: Proteomic Approach Reveals a Novel Role for S100A8	New Insights into the impact of Human Papillomavirus on Oral Cancer in Young Patients: Proteomic Approach Reveals a Novel Role for S100A8	Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection has recently been linked to a subset of cancers affecting the oral cavity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying HPV-driven oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) onset and progression are poorly understood. METHODS: We performed MS-based proteomics profiling based on HPV status in OSCC in young patients, following biological characterization and cell assays to explore the proteome functional landscape. RESULTS: Thirty-nine proteins are differentially abundant between HPV (+) and HPV (-) OSCC. Among them, COPS3, DYHC1, and S100A8 are unfavorable for tumor recurrence and survival, in contrast to A2M and Serpine1, low levels of which show an association with better DFS. Remarkably, S100A8 is considered an independent prognostic factor for lower survival rates, and at high levels, it alters tumor-associated immune profiling, showing a lower proportion of M1 macrophages and dendritic cells. HPV (+) OSCC also displayed the pathogen-associated patterns receptor that, when activated, triggered the S100A8 and NFkappaB inflammatory responses. CONCLUSION: HPV (+) OSCC has a peculiar microenvironment pattern distinctive from HPV (-), involving the expression of pathogen-associated pattern receptors, S100A8 overexpression, and NFkappaB activation and responses, which has important consequences in prognosis and may guide therapeutic decisions.
PXD040886	37174725	Protein Networks Associated with Native Metabotropic Glutamate 1 Receptors (mGlu1) in the Mouse Cerebellum. 	Protein networks associated with native metabotropic glutamate 1 receptors (mGlu1) in the mouse cerebellum.	KCTD12, cerebellum, glutamate receptors, immunoprecipitation	The metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGlu1) plays a pivotal role in synaptic transmission and neuronal plasticity. Despite the fact that several interacting proteins involved in the mGlu1 subcellular trafficking and intracellular transduction mechanisms have been identified, the protein network associated with this receptor in specific brain areas remains largely unknown. To identify novel mGlu1-associated protein complexes in the mouse cerebellum, we used an unbiased tissue-specific proteomic approach, namely co-immunoprecipitation followed by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Many well-known protein complexes as well as novel interactors were identified, including G-proteins, Homer, delta2 glutamate receptor, 14-3-3 proteins, and Na/K-ATPases. A novel putative interactor, KCTD12, was further investigated. Reverse co-immunoprecipitation with anti-KCTD12 antibodies revealed mGlu1 in wild-type but not in KCTD12-knock-out homogenates. Freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling co-localization experiments showed that KCTD12 and mGlu1 are present in the same nanodomain in Purkinje cell spines, although at a distance that suggests that this interaction is mediated through interposed proteins. Consistently, mGlu1 could not be co-immunoprecipitated with KCTD12 from a recombinant mammalian cell line co-expressing the two proteins. The possibility that this interaction was mediated via GABAB receptors was excluded by showing that mGlu1 and KCTD12 still co-immunoprecipitated from GABAB receptor knock-out tissue. In conclusion, this study identifies tissue-specific mGlu1-associated protein clusters including KCTD12 at Purkinje cell synapses.
PXD039320	37175409	Shotgun Proteomics Analysis, Functional Networks, and Peptide Biomarkers for Seafood-Originating Biogenic-Amine-Producing Bacteria. 	Shotgun Proteomics Analysis, Functional Networks and Peptide Biomarkers for Biogenic Amine-producing Bacteria	Biogenic amine-producing bacteria, LCESIMS/MS, bacterial detection and identification, food, seafood, shotgun proteomics	Biogenic amine-producing bacteria are responsible for the production of basic nitrogenous compounds (histamine, cadaverine, tyramine, and putrescine) following the spoilage of food due to microorganisms. In this study, we adopted a shotgun proteomics strategy to characterize 15 foodborne strains of biogenic-amine-producing bacteria. A total of 10,673 peptide spectrum matches belonging to 4081 peptides and corresponding to 1811 proteins were identified. Relevant functional pathways were determined, and strains were differentiated into hierarchical clusters. An expected protein-protein interaction network was created (260 nodes/1973 interactions). Most of the determined proteins were associated with networks/pathways of energy, putrescine metabolism, and host-virus interaction. Additionally, 556 peptides were identified as virulence factors. Moreover, 77 species-specific peptide biomarkers corresponding to 64 different proteins were proposed to identify 10 bacterial species. This represents a major proteomic dataset of biogenic-amine-producing strains. These results may also be suitable for new treatments for food intoxication and for tracking microbial sources in foodstuffs.
PXD040611	37175769	Diversity of Cationic Antimicrobial Peptides in Black Cumin (Nigella sativa L.) Seeds. 	Diversity of cationic antimicrobial peptides in black cumin (Nigella sativa L.) seeds	Antimicrobial peptide (AMPs), Proteomic analysis, antimicrobial activity, defensin, lipid transfer protein (LTP)	Black cumin (Nigella sativa L.) is known to possess a wide variety of antimicrobial peptides belonging to different structural families. Three novel antimicrobial peptides have been isolated from black cumin seeds. Two of them were attributed as members of the non-specific lipid transfer proteins family, and one as a defensin. We have made an attempt of using the proteomic approach for novel antimicrobial peptides search in N. sativa seeds as well. The use of a well-established approach that includes extraction and fractionation stages remains relevant even in the case of novel peptides search because of the lacking N. sativa genome data. Novel peptides demonstrate a spectrum of antimicrobial activity against plant pathogenic organisms that may cause economically important crop diseases. These results obtained allow considering these molecules as candidates to be applied in "next-generation" biopesticides development for agricultural use.
PXD023259	37175936	Extracellular Vesicles from Different Sources of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Have Distinct Effects on Lung and Distal Organs in Experimental Sepsis. 	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles and cells	extracellular vesicles, primary cells	The effects of the administration of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) may vary according to the source. We hypothesized that MSC-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) obtained from bone marrow (BM), adipose (AD), or lung (L) tissues may also lead to different effects in sepsis. We profiled the proteome from EVs as a first step toward understanding their mechanisms of action. Polymicrobial sepsis was induced in C57BL/6 mice by cecal ligation and puncture (SEPSIS) and SHAM (control) animals only underwent laparotomy. Twenty-four hours after surgery, animals in the SEPSIS group were randomized to receive saline or 3 x 10(6) MSC-derived EVs from BM, AD, or L. The diffuse alveolar damage was decreased with EVs from all three sources. In kidneys, BM-, AD-, and L-EVs reduced edema and expression of interleukin-18. Kidney injury molecule-1 expression decreased only in BM- and L-EVs groups. In the liver, only BM-EVs reduced congestion and cell infiltration. The size and number of EVs from different sources were not different, but the proteome of the EVs differed. BM-EVs were enriched for anti-inflammatory proteins compared with AD-EVs and L-EVs. In conclusion, BM-EVs were associated with less organ damage compared with the other sources of EVs, which may be related to differences detected in their proteome.
PXD031824	37176957	Proteomic Insights of Cowpea Response to Combined Biotic and Abiotic Stresses. 	Vigna unguiculata CE31 roots quantitative control vs infected with Meloidogyne incognita vs drought vs cross-stress	cowpea, cross stress, drought, nematoid	The co-occurrence of biotic and abiotic stresses in agricultural areas severely affects crop performance and productivity. Drought is one of the most adverse environmental stresses, and its association with root-knot nematodes further limits the development of several economically important crops, such as cowpea. Plant responses to combined stresses are complex and require novel adaptive mechanisms through the induction of specific biotic and abiotic signaling pathways. Therefore, the present work aimed to identify proteins involved in the resistance of cowpea to nematode and drought stresses individually and combined. We used the genotype CE 31, which is resistant to the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne spp. And tolerant to drought. Three biological replicates of roots and shoots were submitted to protein extraction, and the peptides were evaluated by LC-MS/MS. Shotgun proteomics revealed 2345 proteins, of which 1040 were differentially abundant. Proteins involved in essential biological processes, such as transcriptional regulation, cell signaling, oxidative processes, and photosynthesis, were identified. However, the main defense strategies in cowpea against cross-stress are focused on the regulation of hormonal signaling, the intense production of pathogenesis-related proteins, and the downregulation of photosynthetic activity. These are key processes that can culminate in the adaptation of cowpea challenged by multiple stresses. Furthermore, the candidate proteins identified in this study will strongly contribute to cowpea genetic improvement programs.
PXD040232	37178118	Directed differentiation of human iPSCs into mesenchymal lineages by optogenetic control of TGF-beta signaling. 	Directed Differentiation of Human iPSCs into Mesenchymal Lineages by Optogenetic Control of TGF-beta Signaling	agarose, chondrogenesis, hydrogel, iPSC	In tissue development and homeostasis, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta signaling is finely coordinated by latent forms and matrix sequestration. Optogenetics can offer precise and dynamic control of cell signaling. We report the development of an optogenetic human induced pluripotent stem cell system for TGF-beta signaling and demonstrate its utility in directing differentiation into the smooth muscle, tenogenic, and chondrogenic lineages. Light-activated TGF-beta signaling resulted in expression of differentiation markers at levels close to those in soluble factor-treated cultures, with minimal phototoxicity. In a cartilage-bone model, light-patterned TGF-beta gradients allowed the establishment of hyaline-like layer of cartilage tissue at the articular surface while attenuating with depth to enable hypertrophic induction at the osteochondral interface. By selectively activating TGF-beta signaling in co-cultures of light-responsive and non-responsive cells, undifferentiated and differentiated cells were simultaneously maintained in a single culture with shared medium. This platform can enable patient-specific and spatiotemporally precise studies of cellular decision making.
PXD041847	37179401	A single chlamydial protein reshapes the plasma membrane and serves as recruiting platform for central endocytic effector proteins. 	A single chlamydial protein reshapes the plasma membrane and serves as recruiting platform for central endocytic effector proteins	Chlamydia pneumoniae, SemD, actin binding, endocytosis, epithelial cell, infection, membrane, pathogen	Uptake of obligate intracellular bacterial pathogens into mammalian epithelial cells is critically dependent on modulation of the host's endocytic machinery. It is an open question how the invading pathogens generate a membrane-bound vesicle appropriate to their size. This requires extensive deformation of the host plasma membrane itself by pathogen-derived membrane-binding proteins, accompanied by substantial F-actin-based forces to further expand and finally pinch off the vesicle. Here we show that upon adhesion to the host cell, the human pathogenic bacterium Chlamydia pneumoniae secretes the scaffolding effector protein CPn0677, which binds to the inner leaflet of the invaginating host's PM, induces inwardly directed, negative membrane curvature, and forms a recruiting platform for the membrane-deforming BAR-domain containing proteins Pacsin and SNX9. In addition, while bound to the membrane, CPn0677 recruits monomeric G-actin, and its C-terminal region binds and activates N-WASP, which initiates branching actin polymerization via the Arp2/3 complex. Together, these membrane-bound processes enable the developing endocytic vesicle to engulf the infectious elementary body, while the associated actin network generates the forces required to reshape and detach the nascent vesicle from the PM. Thus, Cpn0677 (now renamed SemD) acts as recruiting platform for central components of the endocytic machinery during uptake of chlamydia.
PXD039158	37179425	Blocking muscle wasting via deletion of the muscle-specific E3 ligase MuRF1 impedes pancreatic tumor growth. 	Blocking muscle wasting via deletion of the muscle specific E3 ligase MuRF1 impedes pancreatic tumor growth - proteome dataset	MuRF1, cancer cachexia, muscle wasting, pancreatic cancer	Cancer-induced muscle wasting reduces quality of life, complicates or precludes cancer treatments, and predicts early mortality. Herein, we investigate the requirement of the muscle-specific E3 ubiquitin ligase, MuRF1, for muscle wasting induced by pancreatic cancer. Murine pancreatic cancer (KPC) cells, or saline, were injected into the pancreas of WT and MuRF1(-/-) mice, and tissues analyzed throughout tumor progression. KPC tumors induces progressive wasting of skeletal muscle and systemic metabolic reprogramming in WT mice, but not MuRF1(-/-) mice. KPC tumors from MuRF1(-/-) mice also grow slower, and show an accumulation of metabolites normally depleted by rapidly growing tumors. Mechanistically, MuRF1 is necessary for the KPC-induced increases in cytoskeletal and muscle contractile protein ubiquitination, and the depression of proteins that support protein synthesis. Together, these data demonstrate that MuRF1 is required for KPC-induced skeletal muscle wasting, whose deletion reprograms the systemic and tumor metabolome and delays tumor growth.
PXD036094	37179642	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Transforming Growth Factor beta Receptor Targeted by Resveratrol and Hesperetin Coformulation in Endothelial Cells. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Transforming growth factor beta Axis Induced by Resveratrol and Hesperetin Coformulation in Endothelial Cells	Diabetes (B/D-HPP), Endothelial cells, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Transforming growth factor-beta, trans-resveratrol, type 2 diabetes	The endothelium is the frontline target of multiple metabolic stressors and pharmacological agents. As a consequence, endothelial cells (ECs) display highly dynamic and diverse proteome profiles. We describe here the culture of human aortic ECs from healthy and type 2 diabetic donors, the treatment with a small molecular coformulation of trans-resveratrol and hesperetin (tRES+HESP), followed by proteomic analysis of whole-cell lysate. A number of 3666 proteins were presented in all of the samples and thus further analyzed. We found that 179 proteins had a significant difference between diabetic ECs vs. healthy ECs, while 81 proteins had a significant change upon the treatment of tRES+HESP in diabetic ECs. Among them, 16 proteins showed a difference between diabetic ECs and healthy ECs and the difference was reversed by the tRES+HESP treatment. Follow-up functional assays identified activin A receptor-like type 1 and transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 as the most pronounced targets suppressed by tRES+HESP in protecting angiogenesis in vitro. Our study has revealed the global differences in proteins and biological pathways in ECs from diabetic donors, which are potentially reversible by the tRES+HESP formula. Furthermore, we have identified the TGFbeta receptor as a responding mechanism in ECs treated with this formula, shedding light on future studies for deeper molecular characterization.
PXD039549	37181633	Temporal resolution of NAIL-MS of tRNA, rRNA and Poly-A RNA is overcome by actinomycin D. 	HEK 293T LCMS after 8h of treatment with Actinomycin D	HEK cells, LC-MS, Pulse-chase, SILAC	RNA is dynamically modified and has the potential to respond to environmental changes and tune translation. The objective of this work is to uncover the temporal limitation of our recently developed cell culture NAIL-MS (nucleic acid isotope labelling coupled mass spectrometry) technology and overcome it. Actinomycin D (AcmD), an inhibitor of transcription, was used in the NAIL-MS context to reveal the origin of hybrid nucleoside signals composed of unlabelled nucleosides and labelled methylation marks. We find that the formation of these hybrid species depends exclusively on transcription for Poly-A RNA and rRNA but is partly transcription-independent for tRNA. This finding suggests that tRNA modifications adapt and are dynamically regulated by cells to overcome e.g. stress. Future studies on the tRNA modification mediated stress response are now accessible and the temporal resolution of NAIL-MS is improved by the use of AcmD.
PXD041365	37182100	Creatine kinase brain-type regulates BCAR1 phosphorylation to facilitate DNA damage repair. 	CKB catalyzes BCAR1 phosphorylation to regulate DNA damage repair	BCAR1 phosphorylation, DNA damage repair, RPPB4, creatine kinase brain-type (CKB)	Creatine kinase (CK) is an essential metabolic enzyme mediating creatine/phosphocreatine interconversion and shuttle to replenish ATP for energy needs. Ablation of CK causes a deficiency in energy supply that eventually results in reduced muscle burst activity and neurological disorders in mice. Besides the well-established role of CK in energy-buffering, the mechanism underlying the non-metabolic function of CK is poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that creatine kinase brain-type (CKB) may function as a protein kinase to regulate BCAR1 Y327 phosphorylation that enhances the association between BCAR1 and RBBP4. Then the complex of BCAR1 and RPPB4 binds to the promoter region of DNA damage repair gene RAD51 and activates its transcription by modulating histone H4K16 acetylation to ultimately promote DNA damage repair. These findings reveal the possible role of CKB independently of its metabolic function and depict the potential pathway of CKB-BCAR1-RBBP4 operating in DNA damage repair.
PXD035705	37182104	Tandem detergent-extraction and immunoprecipitation of proteinopathy: Scalable enrichment of ALS-associated TDP-43 aggregates. 	Proteomics analysis of TDP-43 aggregates derived from HEK293A	ALS, Affinity purification-mass spectrometry, aggregates	Transactive response DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa (TDP-43) is a highly conserved, ubiquitously expressed nucleic acid-binding protein that regulates DNA/RNA metabolism. Genetics and neuropathology studies have linked TDP-43 to several neuromuscular and neurological disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Under pathological conditions, TDP-43 mislocalizes to the cytoplasm where it forms insoluble, hyper-phosphorylated aggregates during disease progression. Here, we optimized a scalable in vitro immuno-purification strategy referred to as tandem detergent-extraction and immunoprecipitation of proteinopathy (TDiP) to isolate TDP-43 aggregates that recapitulate those identified in postmortem ALS tissue. Moreover, we demonstrate that these purified aggregates can be utilized in biochemical, proteomics, and live-cell assays. This platform offers a rapid, accessible, and streamlined approach to study ALS disease mechanisms, while overcoming many limitations that have hampered TDP-43 disease modeling and therapeutic drug discovery efforts.
PXD039658	37183585	Acetylation coordinates the crosstalk between carbon metabolism and ammonium assimilation in Salmonella enterica. 	Acetylation Coordinates the Crosstalk between Carbon Metabolism and Ammonium Assimilation	Acetylation, Ammonium assimilation, Carbon metabolism, Coordination	Enteric bacteria use up to 15% of their cellular energy for ammonium assimilation via glutamine synthetase (GS)/glutamate synthase (GOGAT) and glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) in response to varying ammonium availability. However, the sensory mechanisms for effective and appropriate coordination between carbon metabolism and ammonium assimilation have not been fully elucidated. Here, we report that in Salmonella enterica, carbon metabolism coordinates the activities of GS/GDH via functionally reversible protein lysine acetylation. Glucose promotes Pat acetyltransferase-mediated acetylation and activation of adenylylated GS. Simultaneously, glucose induces GDH acetylation to inactivate the enzyme by impeding its catalytic centre, which is reversed upon GDH deacetylation by deacetylase CobB. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations indicate that adenylylation is required for acetylation-dependent activation of GS. We show that acetylation and deacetylation occur within minutes of "glucose shock" to promptly adapt to ammonium/carbon variation and finely balance glutamine/glutamate synthesis. Finally, in a mouse infection model, reduced S. enterica growth caused by the expression of adenylylation-mimetic GS is rescued by acetylation-mimicking mutations. Thus, glucose-driven acetylation integrates signals from ammonium assimilation and carbon metabolism to fine-tune bacterial growth control.
PXD039718	37186966	Thigh muscle metabolic response is linked to feed efficiency and meat characteristics in slow-growing chicken. 	The thigh muscle metabolic response is linked to feed efficiency and meat characteristics in slow-growing chicken	meat characteristics, slow-growing chicken	The Korat chicken (KR) is a slow-growing Thai chicken breed with relatively poor feed efficiency (FE) but very tasty meat with high protein and low fat contents, and a unique texture. To enhance the competitiveness of KR, its FE should be improved. However, selecting for FE has an unknown effect on meat characteristics. Thus, understanding the genetic basis underlying FE traits and meat characteristics is needed. In this study, 75 male KR birds were raised up to 10 wk of age. For each bird, the feed conversion ratio (FCR), residual feed intake (RFI), and physicochemical properties, flavor precursors, and biological compounds in the thigh meat were evaluated. At 10 wk of age, thigh muscle samples from 6 birds (3 with high FCR and 3 with low FCR values) were selected, and their proteomes were investigated using a label-free proteomic method. Weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to screen the key protein modules and pathways. The WGCNA results revealed that FE and meat characteristics significantly correlated with the same protein module. However, the correlation was unfavorable; improving FE may result in a decrease in meat quality through the alteration in biological processes including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, metabolic pathway, carbon metabolism, biosynthesis of amino acids, pyruvate metabolism, and protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum. The hub proteins of the significant module (TNNT1, TNNT3, TNNI2, TNNC2, MYLPF, MYH10, GADPH, PGK1, LDHA, and GPI) were also identified to be associated with energy metabolism, and muscle growth and development. Given that the same proteins and pathways are present in FE and meat characteristics but in opposite directions, selection practices for KR should simultaneously consider both trait groups to maintain the high meat quality of KR while improving FE.
PXD039635	37187701	The eIF4EBP-eIF4E axis regulates CD4(+) T cell differentiation through modulation of T cell activation and metabolism. 	LC-MS analysis of Murine eIF4E-BP1/2 Double Knockout naive and TCR stimulated CD4+ T cells	CD4+ T cells, Immunology, Murine, Translational Regulation, eIF4E	CD4(+) T cells are critical for adaptive immunity, differentiating into distinct effector and regulatory subsets. Although the transcriptional programs underlying their differentiation are known, recent research has highlighted the importance of mRNA translation in determining protein abundance. We previously conducted genome-wide analysis of translation in CD4(+) T cells revealing distinct translational signatures distinguishing these subsets, identifying eIF4E as a central differentially translated transcript. As eIF4E is vital for eukaryotic translation, we examined how altered eIF4E activity affected T cell function using mice lacking eIF4E-binding proteins (BP(-/-)). BP(-/-) effector T cells showed elevated Th1 responses ex vivo and upon viral challenge with enhanced Th1 differentiation observed in vitro. This was accompanied by increased TCR activation and elevated glycolytic activity. This study highlights how regulating T cell-intrinsic eIF4E activity can influence T cell activation and differentiation, suggesting the eIF4EBP-eIF4E axis as a potential therapeutic target for controlling aberrant T cell responses.
PXD040516	37187882	Small extracellular vesicles derived from four dimensional-culture of mesenchymal stem cells induce alternatively activated macrophages by upregulating IGFBP2/EGFR to attenuate inflammation in the spinal cord injury of rats. 	Small Extracellular Vesicles derived from four dimensional-culture of mesenchymal stem cells induce alternatively activated macrophages by upregulating IGFBP2/EGFR to attenuate inflammation in the spinal cord injury of rats	Four dimensional culture, IGFBP2/EGFR, Macrophage polarization, Small Extracellular Vesicles, Spinal cord injury	Effectively reducing the inflammatory response after spinal cord injury (SCI) is a challenging clinical problem and the subject of active investigation. This study employed a porous scaffold-based three dimensional long-term culture technique to obtain human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell (hUC-MSC)-derived Small Extracellular Vesicles (sEVs) (three dimensional culture over time, the "4D-sEVs"). Moreover, the vesicle size, number, and inner protein concentrations of the MSC 4D-sEVs contained altered protein profiles compared with those derived from 2D culture conditions. A proteomics analysis suggested broad changes, especially significant upregulation of Epidermal Growth Factors Receptor (EGFR) and Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Protein 2 (IGFBP2) in 4D-sEVs compared with 2D-sEVs. The endocytosis of 4D-sEVs allowed for the binding of EGFR and IGFBP2, leading to downstream STAT3 phosphorylation and IL-10 secretion and effective induction of macrophages/microglia polarization from the pro-inflammatory M1 to anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, both in vitro and in the injured areas of rats with compressive/contusive SCI. The reduction in neuroinflammation after 4D-sEVs delivery to the injury site epicenter led to significant neuroprotection, as evidenced by the number of surviving spinal neurons. Therefore, applying this novel 4D culture-derived Small Extracellular Vesicles could effectively curb the inflammatory response and increase tissue repair after SCI.
PXD041077	37188496	Identification of MYH9 as a key regulator for synoviocyte migration and invasion through secretome profiling. 	Human fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) -derived secretome	Fibroblast-like synoviocytes, Rheumatoid arthritis, Secretome	OBJECTIVES: 'Invasive pannus' is a pathological hallmark of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study aimed to investigate secretome profile of synovial fibroblasts of patients with RA (RA-FLSs), a major cell type comprising the invasive pannus. METHODS: Secreted proteins from RA-FLSs were first identified using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Ultrasonography was performed for affected joints to define synovitis severity at the time of arthrocentesis. Expression levels of myosin heavy chain 9 (MYH9) in RA-FLSs and synovial tissues were determined by ELISA, western blot analysis and immunostaining. A humanised synovitis model was induced in immuno-deficient mice. RESULTS: We first identified 843 proteins secreted from RA-FLSs; 48.5% of the secretome was associated with pannus-driven pathologies. Parallel reaction monitoring analysis of the secretome facilitated discovery of 16 key proteins related to 'invasive pannus', including MYH9, in the synovial fluids, which represented synovial pathology based on ultrasonography and inflammatory activity in the joints. Particularly, MYH9, a key protein in actin-based cell motility, showed a strong correlation with fibroblastic activity in the transcriptome profile of RA synovia. Moreover, MYH9 expression was elevated in cultured RA-FLSs and RA synovium, and its secretion was induced by interleukin-1beta, tumour necrosis factor alpha, toll-like receptor ligation and endoplasmic reticulum stimuli. Functional experiments demonstrated that MYH9 promoted migration and invasion of RA-FLSs in vitro and in a humanised synovitis model, which was substantially inhibited by blebbistatin, a specific MYH9 inhibitor. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a comprehensive resource of the RA-FLS-derived secretome and suggests that MYH9 represents a promising target for retarding abnormal migration and invasion of RA-FLSs.
PXD036582	37188730	Multi-omics delineation of cytokine-induced endothelial inflammatory states. 	The endothelial inflammatory repertoire: a multi-omic delineation of cytokine induced endothelial inflammatory states	Endothelial cells, inflammation, mult-omics	Vascular endothelial cells (ECs) form a dynamic interface between blood and tissue and play a crucial role in the progression of vascular inflammation. Here, we aim to dissect the system-wide molecular mechanisms of inflammatory endothelial-cytokine responses. Applying an unbiased cytokine library, we determined that TNFalpha and IFNgamma induced the largest EC response resulting in distinct proteomic inflammatory signatures. Notably, combined TNFalpha + IFNgamma stimulation induced an additional synergetic inflammatory signature. We employed a multi-omics approach to dissect these inflammatory states, combining (phospho-) proteome, transcriptome and secretome and found, depending on the stimulus, a wide-array of altered immune-modulating processes, including complement proteins, MHC complexes and distinct secretory cytokines. Synergy resulted in cooperative activation of transcript induction. This resource describes the intricate molecular mechanisms that are at the basis of endothelial inflammation and supports the adaptive immunomodulatory role of the endothelium in host defense and vascular inflammation.
PXD041145	37188819	SIRT2 regulates extracellular vesicle-mediated liver-bone communication. 	SIRT2 regulates extracellular vesicle-mediated liver-bone communication	LRG1, SIRT2, extracellular vesicle, liver-bone communication	The interplay between liver and bone metabolism remains largely uncharacterized. Here, we uncover a mechanism of liver-bone crosstalk regulated by hepatocyte SIRT2. We demonstrate that hepatocyte SIRT2 expression is increased in aged mice and elderly humans. Liver-specific SIRT2 deficiency inhibits osteoclastogenesis and alleviates bone loss in mouse models of osteoporosis. We identify leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 (LRG1) as a functional cargo in hepatocyte-derived small extracellular vesicles (sEVs). In SIRT2-deficient hepatocytes, LRG1 levels in sEVs are upregulated, leading to increased transfer of LRG1 to bone-marrow-derived monocytes (BMDMs), and in turn, to inhibition of osteoclast differentiation via reduced nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB p65. Treatment with sEVs carrying high levels of LRG1 inhibits osteoclast differentiation in human BMDMs and in mice with osteoporosis, resulting in attenuated bone loss in mice. Furthermore, the plasma level of sEVs carrying LRG1 is positively correlated with bone mineral density in humans. Thus, drugs targeting hepatocyte-osteoclast communication may constitute a promising therapeutic strategy for primary osteoporosis.
PXD041561	37189133	Bacillus cereus extracellular vesicles act as shuttles for biologically active multicomponent enterotoxins. 	Proteome screening of Bacillus cereus derived extracellular vesicles	Bacillus cereus, extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from Gram-positive bacteria have gained considerable importance as a novel transport system of virulence factors in host-pathogen interactions. Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive human pathogen, causing gastrointestinal toxemia as well as local and systemic infections. The pathogenicity of enteropathogenic B. cereus has been linked to a collection of virulence factors and exotoxins. Nevertheless, the exact mechanism of virulence factor secretion and delivery to target cells is poorly understood. RESULTS: Here, we investigate the production and characterization of enterotoxin-associated EVs from the enteropathogenic B. cereus strain NVH0075-95 by using a proteomics approach and studied their interaction with human host cells in vitro. For the first time, comprehensive analyses of B. cereus EV proteins revealed virulence-associated factors, such as sphingomyelinase, phospholipase C, and the three-component enterotoxin Nhe. The detection of Nhe subunits was confirmed by immunoblotting, showing that the low abundant subunit NheC was exclusively detected in EVs as compared to vesicle-free supernatant. Cholesterol-dependent fusion and predominantly dynamin-mediated endocytosis of B. cereus EVs with the plasma membrane of intestinal epithelial Caco2 cells represent entry routes for delivery of Nhe components to host cells, which was assessed by confocal microscopy and finally led to delayed cytotoxicity. Furthermore, we could show that B. cereus EVs elicit an inflammatory response in human monocytes and contribute to erythrocyte lysis via a cooperative interaction of enterotoxin Nhe and sphingomyelinase. CONCLUSION: Our results provide insights into the interaction of EVs from B. cereus with human host cells and add a new layer of complexity to our understanding of multicomponent enterotoxin assembly, offering new opportunities to decipher molecular processes involved in disease development. Video Abstract.
PXD038772	37189345	Effects of GHR Deficiency and Juvenile Hypoglycemia on Immune Cells of a Porcine Model for Laron Syndrome. 	Biomarkers of favorable immune capacity in growth hormone receptor knockout pig model	GHR-KO, Laron syndrome, immune function, porcine model, quantitative label-free LC-MS/MS	Laron syndrome (LS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by low levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) and high levels of growth hormone (GH) due to mutations in the growth hormone receptor gene (GHR). A GHR-knockout (GHR-KO) pig was developed as a model for LS, which displays many of the same features as humans with LS-like transient juvenile hypoglycemia. This study aimed to investigate the effects of impaired GHR signaling on immune functions and immunometabolism in GHR-KO pigs. GHR are located on various cell types of the immune system. Therefore, we investigated lymphocyte subsets, proliferative and respiratory capacity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), proteome profiles of CD4(-) and CD4(+) lymphocytes and IFN-alpha serum levels between wild-type (WT) controls and GHR-KO pigs, which revealed significant differences in the relative proportion of the CD4(+)CD8alpha(-) subpopulation and in IFN-alpha levels. We detected no significant difference in the respiratory capacity and the capacity for polyclonal stimulation in PBMCs between the two groups. But proteome analysis of CD4(+) and CD4(-) lymphocyte populations revealed multiple significant protein abundance differences between GHR-KO and WT pigs, involving pathways related to amino acid metabolism, beta-oxidation of fatty acids, insulin secretion signaling, and oxidative phosphorylation. This study highlights the potential use of GHR-KO pigs as a model for studying the effects of impaired GHR signaling on immune functions.
PXD030371	37189370	The Secretome of Parental and Bone Metastatic Breast Cancer Elicits Distinct Effects in Human Osteoclast Activity after Activation of beta2 Adrenergic Signaling. 	Beta-Adrenergic stimulation of breast cancer MDA-MB-231 and bone tropic MDA-MB-231-BoM 1833 cell line secretome	Breast Cancer, conditioned medium, secreted	The sympathetic nervous system (SNS), particularly through the beta2 adrenergic receptor (beta2-AR), has been linked with breast cancer (BC) and the development of metastatic BC, specifically in the bone. Nevertheless, the potential clinical benefits of exploiting beta2-AR antagonists as a treatment for BC and bone loss-associated symptoms remain controversial. In this work, we show that, when compared to control individuals, the epinephrine levels in a cohort of BC patients are augmented in both earlier and late stages of the disease. Furthermore, through a combination of proteomic profiling and functional in vitro studies with human osteoclasts and osteoblasts, we demonstrate that paracrine signaling from parental BC under beta2-AR activation causes a robust decrease in human osteoclast differentiation and resorption activity, which is rescued in the presence of human osteoblasts. Conversely, metastatic bone tropic BC does not display this anti-osteoclastogenic effect. In conclusion, the observed changes in the proteomic profile of BC cells under beta-AR activation that take place after metastatic dissemination, together with clinical data on epinephrine levels in BC patients, provided new insights on the sympathetic control of breast cancer and its implications on osteoclastic bone resorption.
PXD040083	37189628	Differential Activation of NRF2 Signaling Pathway in Renal-Cell Carcinoma Caki Cell Lines. 	Differential activation of NRF2 signaling pathway in renal cell carcinoma cells	Renal Cell Carcinoma, TMT	Renal-cell carcinoma (RCC) is a heterogeneous disease consisting of several subtypes based on specific genomic profiles and histological and clinical characteristics. The subtype with the highest prevalence is clear-cell RCC (ccRCC), next is papillary RCC (pRCC), and then chromophobe RCC (chRCC). The ccRCC cell lines are further subdivided into prognostic expression-based subtypes ccA or ccB. This heterogeneity necessitates the development, availability, and utilization of cell line models with the correct disease phenotypic characteristics for RCC research. In this study, we focused on characterizing proteomic differences between the Caki-1 and Caki-2 cell lines that are commonly used in ccRCC research. Both cells are primarily defined as human ccRCC cell lines. Caki-1 cell lines are metastatic, harboring wild-type VHL, whereas Caki-2 are considered as the primary ccRCC cell lines expressing wild-type von Hippel-Lindau protein (pVHL). Here, we performed a comprehensive comparative proteomic analysis of Caki-1 and Caki-2 cells using tandem mass-tag reagents together with liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC/MS) for the identification and quantitation of proteins in the two cell lines. Differential regulation of a subset of the proteins identified was validated using orthogonal methods including western blot, q-PCR, and immunofluorescence assays. Integrative bioinformatic analysis identifies the activation/inhibition of specific molecular pathways, upstream regulators, and causal networks that are uniquely regulated and associated with the two cell lines and RCC subtypes, and potentially the disease stage. Altogether, we have identified multiple molecular pathways, including NRF2 signaling, which is the most significantly activated pathway in Caki-2 versus Caki-1 cells. Some of the differentially regulated molecules and signaling pathways could serve as potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets amongst ccRCC subtypes.
PXD040413	37189694	Lysine Acetylome of Breast Cancer-Derived Small Extracellular Vesicles Reveals Specific Acetylation Patterns for Metabolic Enzymes. 	Lysine acetolome of breast cancer-derived small extracellular vesicles reveals specific acetylation pattern for metabolic enzymes	breast cancer, protein acetylation, small extracellular vesicles	Cancer-derived small extracellular vesicles have been proposed as promising potential biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of breast cancer (BC). We performed a proteomic study of lysine acetylation of breast cancer-derived small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) to understand the potential role of the aberrant acetylated proteins in the biology of invasive ductal carcinoma and triple-negative BC. Three cell lines were used as models for this study: MCF10A (non-metastatic), MCF7 (estrogen and progesterone receptor-positive, metastatic) and MDA-MB-231 (triple-negative, highly metastatic). For a comprehensive protein acetylation analysis of the sEVs derived from each cell line, acetylated peptides were enriched using the anti-acetyl-lysine antibody, followed by LC-MS/MS analysis. In total, there were 118 lysine-acetylated peptides, of which 22, 58 and 82 have been identified in MCF10A, MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 cell lines, respectively. These acetylated peptides were mapped to 60 distinct proteins and mainly identified proteins involved in metabolic pathways. Among the acetylated proteins identified in cancer-derived sEVs from MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 cell lines are proteins associated with the glycolysis pathway, annexins and histones. Five acetylated enzymes from the glycolytic pathway, present only in cancer-derived sEVs, were validated. These include aldolase (ALDOA), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK1), enolase (ENO) and pyruvate kinase M1/2 (PKM). For three of these enzymes (ALDOA, PGK1 and ENO) the specific enzymatic activity was significantly higher in MDA-MB-231 when compared with MCF10A-derived sEVs. This study reveals that sEVs contain acetylated glycolytic metabolic enzymes that could be interesting potential candidates for early BC diagnostics.
PXD041138	37192619	Systematic identification of anticancer drug targets reveals a nucleus-to-mitochondria ROS-sensing pathway. 	Systematic identification of anticancer drug targets reveals a nucleus-to-mitochondria ROS sensing pathway	Chemotherapy, Chermoresistance, Organelle Signaling, ROS, Redox Signaling, chemical proteomics	Multiple anticancer drugs have been proposed to cause cell death, in part, by increasing the steady-state levels of cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS). However, for most of these drugs, exactly how the resultant ROS function and are sensed is poorly understood. It remains unclear which proteins the ROS modify and their roles in drug sensitivity/resistance. To answer these questions, we examined 11 anticancer drugs with an integrated proteogenomic approach identifying not only many unique targets but also shared ones-including ribosomal components, suggesting common mechanisms by which drugs regulate translation. We focus on CHK1 that we find is a nuclear H2O2 sensor that launches a cellular program to dampen ROS. CHK1 phosphorylates the mitochondrial DNA-binding protein SSBP1 to prevent its mitochondrial localization, which in turn decreases nuclear H2O2. Our results reveal a druggable nucleus-to-mitochondria ROS-sensing pathway-required to resolve nuclear H2O2 accumulation and mediate resistance to platinum-based agents in ovarian cancers.
PXD036245	37195023	ONC201 in Combination with Paxalisib for the Treatment of H3K27-Altered Diffuse Midline Glioma. 	ONC201 in combination with paxalisib for the treatment of H3K27-altered diffuse midline glioma	CLPP agonist, DIPG, DMG, ONC201, Targeted therapies	Diffuse midline gliomas (DMG), including diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPG), are the most lethal of childhood cancers. Palliative radiotherapy is the only established treatment, with median patient survival of 9 to 11 months. ONC201 is a DRD2 antagonist and ClpP agonist that has shown preclinical and emerging clinical efficacy in DMG. However, further work is needed to identify the mechanisms of response of DIPGs to ONC201 treatment and to determine whether recurring genomic features influence response. Using a systems-biological approach, we showed that ONC201 elicits potent agonism of the mitochondrial protease ClpP to drive proteolysis of electron transport chain and tricarboxylic acid cycle proteins. DIPGs harboring PIK3CA mutations showed increased sensitivity to ONC201, whereas those harboring TP53 mutations were more resistant. Metabolic adaptation and reduced sensitivity to ONC201 was promoted by redox-activated PI3K/Akt signaling, which could be counteracted using the brain penetrant PI3K/Akt inhibitor, paxalisib. Together, these discoveries coupled with the powerful anti-DIPG/DMG pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of ONC201 and paxalisib have provided the rationale for the ongoing DIPG/DMG phase II combination clinical trial NCT05009992. SIGNIFICANCE: PI3K/Akt signaling promotes metabolic adaptation to ONC201-mediated disruption of mitochondrial energy homeostasis in diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma, highlighting the utility of a combination treatment strategy using ONC201 and the PI3K/Akt inhibitor paxalisib.
PXD029775	37195130	ATP-Coated Dual-Functionalized Titanium(IV) IMAC Material for Simultaneous Enrichment and Separation of Glycopeptides and Phosphopeptides. 	ATP-Coated Dual-functionalized Titanium (IV) IMAC Material for Simultaneous Enrichment and Separation of Glycopeptides and Phosphopeptides	Glycoproteomics, Phosphoproteomics	Protein glycosylation and phosphorylation are two of the most common post-translational modifications (PTMs), which play an important role in many biological processes. However, low abundance and poor ionization efficiency of phosphopeptides and glycopeptides make direct MS analysis challenging. In this study, we developed a hydrophilicity-enhanced bifunctional Ti-IMAC (IMAC: immobilized metal affinity chromatography) material with grafted adenosine triphosphate (denoted as epoxy-ATP-Ti(4+)) to enable simultaneous enrichment and separation of common N-glycopeptides, phosphopeptides, and M6P glycopeptides from tissue/cells. The enrichment was achieved through a dual-mode mechanism based on the electrostatic and hydrophilic properties of the material. The epoxy-ATP-Ti(4+) IMAC material was prepared from epoxy-functionalized silica particles via a convenient two-step process. The ATP molecule provided strong and active phosphate sites for binding phosphopeptides in the conventional IMAC mode and also contributed significantly to the hydrophilicity, which permitted the enrichment of glycopeptides via hydrophilic interaction chromatography. The two modes could be implemented simultaneously, allowing glycopeptides and phosphopeptides to be collected sequentially in a single experiment from the same sample. In addition to standard protein samples, the material was further applied to glycopeptide and phosphopeptide enrichment and characterization from HeLa cell digests and mouse lung tissue samples. In total, 2928 glycopeptides and 3051 phosphopeptides were identified from the mouse lung tissue sample, supporting the utility of this material for large-scale PTM analysis of complex biological samples. Overall, the newly developed epoxy-ATP-Ti(4+) IMAC material and associated fractionation method enable simple and effective enrichment and separation of glycopeptides and phosphopeptides, offering a useful tool to study potential crosstalk between these two important PTMs in biological systems. The MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD029775.
PXD039633	37196079	USP7 represses lineage differentiation genes in mouse embryonic stem cells by both catalytic and noncatalytic activities. 	USP7 represses lineage differentiation genes in mouse embryonic stem cells by both catalytic and non-catalytic activity	Epigenetic regulation, Pluripotent stem cells, Polycomb, USP7	USP7, a ubiquitin-specific peptidase (USP), plays an important role in many cellular processes through its catalytic deubiquitination of various substrates. However, its nuclear function that shapes the transcriptional network in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) remains poorly understood. We report that USP7 maintains mESC identity through both catalytic activity-dependent and -independent repression of lineage differentiation genes. Usp7 depletion attenuates SOX2 levels and derepresses lineage differentiation genes thereby compromising mESC pluripotency. Mechanistically, USP7 deubiquitinates and stabilizes SOX2 to repress mesoendodermal (ME) lineage genes. Moreover, USP7 assembles into RYBP-variant Polycomb repressive complex 1 and contributes to Polycomb chromatin-mediated repression of ME lineage genes in a catalytic activity-dependent manner. USP7 deficiency in its deubiquitination function is able to maintain RYBP binding to chromatin for repressing primitive endoderm-associated genes. Our study demonstrates that USP7 harbors both catalytic and noncatalytic activities to repress different lineage differentiation genes, thereby revealing a previously unrecognized role in controlling gene expression for maintaining mESC identity.
PXD038859	37196766	Development of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase FER-targeting PROTACs as a potential strategy for antagonizing ovarian cancer cell motility and invasiveness. 	Development of the non-receptor tyrosine kinase FER-targeting PROTACs as a potential strategy for antagonizing ovarian cancer metastasis	FER, Ovarian cancer, PROTAC, Protein degradation, Tyrosine kinase	Aberrant overexpression of nonreceptor tyrosine kinase FER (Fps/Fes Related) has been reported in various ovarian carcinoma-derived tumor cells and is a poor prognosis factor for patient survival. It plays an essential role in tumor cell migration and invasion, acting concurrently in both kinase-dependent and -independent manners, which is not easily suppressed by conventional enzymatic inhibitors. Nevertheless, the PROteolysis-TArgeting Chimera (PROTAC) technology offers superior efficacy over traditional activity-based inhibitors by simultaneously targeting enzymatic and scaffold functions. Hence in this study, we report the development of two PROTAC compounds that promote robust FER degradation in a cereblon-dependent manner. Both PROTAC degraders outperform a Food and Drug Administration-approved drug, brigatinib, in ovarian cancer cell motility suppression. Importantly, these PROTAC compounds also degrade multiple oncogenic FER fusion proteins identified in human tumor samples. These results lay an experimental foundation to apply the PROTAC strategy to antagonize cell motility and invasiveness in ovarian and other types of cancers with aberrant expression of FER kinase and highlight PROTACs as a superior strategy for targeting proteins with multiple tumor-promoting functions.
PXD017096	37197640	Proteomic Portrait of Human Lymphoma Reveals Protein Molecular Fingerprint of Disease Specific Subtypes and Progression. 	Clinical proteomics analysis using Data Independent Acquisition-Mass Spectrometry (DIA-MS) identified classifiers for molecular characterization of Lymphoma	Lymphoma DIA	An altered proteome in lymph nodes often suggests abnormal signaling pathways that may be associated with diverse lymphatic disorders. Current clinical biomarkers for histological classification of lymphomas have encountered many discrepancies, particularly for borderline cases. Therefore, we launched a comprehensive proteomic study aimed to establish a proteomic landscape of patients with various lymphatic disorders and identify proteomic variations associated with different disease subgroups. In this study, 109 fresh-frozen lymph node tissues from patients with various lymphatic disorders (with a focus on Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma) were analyzed by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. A quantitative proteomic landscape was comprehensively characterized, leading to the identification of featured protein profiles for each subgroup. Potential correlations between clinical outcomes and expression profiles of signature proteins were also probed. Two representative signature proteins, phospholipid-binding proteins Annexin A6 (ANXA6) and Phospholipase C Gamma 2 (PLCG2), were successfully validated via immunohistochemistry. We also evaluated the capability of acquired proteomic signatures to segregate multiple lymphatic abnormalities and identified several core signature proteins, such as Sialic Acid Binding Ig Like Lectin 1 (SIGLEC1) and GTPase of immunity-associated protein 5 (GIMAP5). In summary, the established lympho-specific data resource provides a comprehensive map of protein expression in lymph nodes during multiple disease states, thus extending the existing human tissue proteome atlas. Our findings will be of great value in exploring protein expression and regulation underlying lymphatic malignancies, while also providing novel protein candidates to classify various lymphomas for more precise medical practice. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43657-022-00075-w.
PXD039618	37197655	Integrative proteomic profiling of lung tissues and blood in acute respiratory distress syndrome. 	Intratracheal lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute lung injury (ALI) in Mouse Serum and lung DIA Proteomics Profiling	acute lung injury, acute respiratory distress syndrome, data-independent acquisition, differentially expressed proteins	Introduction: Acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute lung injury (ARDS/ALI) still lack a recognized diagnostic test and pharmacologic treatments that target the underlying pathology. Methods: To explore the sensitive non-invasive biomarkers associated with pathological changes in the lung of direct ARDS/ALI, we performed an integrative proteomic analysis of lung and blood samples from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ARDS mice and COVID-19-related ARDS patients. The common differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified based on combined proteomic analysis of serum and lung samples in direct ARDS mice model. The clinical value of the common DEPs was validated in lung and plasma proteomics in cases of COVID-19-related ARDS. Results: We identified 368 DEPs in serum and 504 in lung samples from LPS-induced ARDS mice. Gene ontology (GO) classification and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that these DEPs in lung tissues were primarily enriched in pathways, including IL-17 and B cell receptor signaling pathways, and the response to stimuli. In contrast, DEPs in the serum were mostly involved in metabolic pathways and cellular processes. Through network analysis of protein-protein interactions (PPI), we identified diverse clusters of DEPs in the lung and serum samples. We further identified 50 commonly upregulated and 10 commonly downregulated DEPs in the lung and serum samples. Internal validation with a parallel-reacted monitor (PRM) and external validation in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets further showed these confirmed DEPs. We then validated these proteins in the proteomics of patients with ARDS and identified six proteins (HP, LTA4H, S100A9, SAA1, SAA2, and SERPINA3) with good clinical diagnostic and prognostic value. Discussion: These proteins can be viewed as sensitive and non-invasive biomarkers associated with lung pathological changes in the blood and could potentially serve as targets for the early detection and treatment of direct ARDS especially in hyperinflammatory subphenotype.
PXD040987	37198164	Small-sample learning reveals propionylation in determining global protein homeostasis. 	AI-facilitated multi-omics reveal TRF-controlled propionylation in determining protein homeostasis	Drosophila, metabolome, per, propionylation	Proteostasis is fundamental for maintaining organismal health. However, the mechanisms underlying its dynamic regulation and how its disruptions lead to diseases are largely unclear. Here, we conduct in-depth propionylomic profiling in Drosophila, and develop a small-sample learning framework to prioritize the propionylation at lysine 17 of H2B (H2BK17pr) to be functionally important. Mutating H2BK17 which eliminates propionylation leads to elevated total protein level in vivo. Further analyses reveal that H2BK17pr modulates the expression of 14.7-16.3% of genes in the proteostasis network, and determines global protein level by regulating the expression of genes involved in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. In addition, H2BK17pr exhibits daily oscillation, mediating the influences of feeding/fasting cycles to drive rhythmic expression of proteasomal genes. Our study not only reveals a role of lysine propionylation in regulating proteostasis, but also implements a generally applicable method which can be extended to other issues with little prior knowledge.
PXD019306	37201521	A neo-functionalized homolog of host transmembrane protein controls localization of bacterial endosymbionts in the trypanosomatid Novymonas esmeraldas. 	Proteomic analysis of the trypanosomatid Novymonas esmeraldas	Novymonas esmeraldas, endosymbiont, eukaryotes, evolution, mitochondria, protobacteria	The stability of endosymbiotic associations between eukaryotes and bacteria depends on a reliable mechanism ensuring vertical inheritance of the latter. Here, we demonstrate that a host-encoded protein, located at the interface between the endoplasmic reticulum of the trypanosomatid Novymonas esmeraldas and its endosymbiotic bacterium Ca. Pandoraea novymonadis, regulates such a process. This protein, named TMP18e, is a product of duplication and neo-functionalization of the ubiquitous transmembrane protein 18 (TMEM18). Its expression level is increased at the proliferative stage of the host life cycle correlating with the confinement of bacteria to the nuclear vicinity. This is important for the proper segregation of bacteria into the daughter host cells as evidenced from the TMP18e ablation, which disrupts the nucleus-endosymbiont association and leads to greater variability of bacterial cell numbers, including an elevated proportion of aposymbiotic cells. Thus, we conclude that TMP18e is necessary for the reliable vertical inheritance of endosymbionts.
PXD039980	37201876	Venom composition and bioactive RF-amide peptide toxins of the saddleback caterpillar, Acharia stimulea (Lepidoptera: Limacodidae). 	Saddleback caterpillar venom proteomics	Acharia stimulea, caterpillar, venom	Limacodidae is a family of lepidopteran insects comprising >1500 species. More than half of these species produce pain-inducing defensive venoms in the larval stage, but little is known about their venom toxins. Recently, we characterised proteinaceous toxins from the Australian limacodid caterpillar Doratifera vulnerans, but it is unknown if the venom of this species is typical of other Limacodidae. Here, we use single animal transcriptomics and venom proteomics to investigate the venom of an iconic limacodid, the North American saddleback caterpillar Acharia stimulea. We identified 65 venom polypeptides, grouped into 31 different families. Neurohormones, knottins, and homologues of the immune signaller Diedel make up the majority of A.stimulea venom, indicating strong similarities to D. vulnerans venom, despite the large geographic separation of these caterpillars. One notable difference is the presence of RF-amide peptide toxins in A. stimulea venom. Synthetic versions of one of these RF-amide toxins potently activated the human neuropeptide FF1 receptor, displayed insecticidal activity when injected into Drosophila melanogaster, and moderately inhibited larval development of the parasitic nematode Haemonchus contortus. This study provides insights into the evolution and activity of venom toxins in Limacodidae, and provides a platform for future structure-function characterisation of A.stimulea peptide toxins.
PXD030238	37202403	Autophagy receptor NDP52 alters DNA conformation to modulate RNA polymerase II transcription. 	Interactome Analysis of NDP52 by LC-MS/MS	HeLa, NDP52, alpha-amanitin	NDP52 is an autophagy receptor involved in the recognition and degradation of invading pathogens and damaged organelles. Although NDP52 was first identified in the nucleus and is expressed throughout the cell, to date, there is no clear nuclear functions for NDP52. Here, we use a multidisciplinary approach to characterise the biochemical properties and nuclear roles of NDP52. We find that NDP52 clusters with RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII) at transcription initiation sites and that its overexpression promotes the formation of additional transcriptional clusters. We also show that depletion of NDP52 impacts overall gene expression levels in two model mammalian cells, and that transcription inhibition affects the spatial organisation and molecular dynamics of NDP52 in the nucleus. This directly links NDP52 to a role in RNAPII-dependent transcription. Furthermore, we also show that NDP52 binds specifically and with high affinity to double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) and that this interaction leads to changes in DNA structure in vitro. This, together with our proteomics data indicating enrichment for interactions with nucleosome remodelling proteins and DNA structure regulators, suggests a possible function for NDP52 in chromatin regulation. Overall, here we uncover nuclear roles for NDP52 in gene expression and DNA structure regulation.
PXD042259	37205480	K29-linked unanchored polyubiquitin chains disrupt ribosome biogenesis and direct ribosomal proteins to the Intranuclear Quality control compartment (INQ). 	K29-linked unanchored polyubiquitin chains disrupt ribosome biogenesis and direct ribosomal proteins to the Intranuclear Quality control compartment (INQ)	DUB-E3 ligase interplay, Intranuclear Quality control compartment, Ribosomopathies, Unconventional K29-linked unanchored polyubiquitin chains, protein aggregation, ribosome assembly stress response, ubiquitin homeostasis	Ribosome assembly requires precise coordination between the production and assembly of ribosomal components. Mutations in ribosomal proteins that inhibit the assembly process or ribosome function are often associated with Ribosomopathies, some of which are linked to defects in proteostasis. In this study, we examine the interplay between several yeast proteostasis enzymes, including deubiquitylases (DUBs), Ubp2 and Ubp14, and E3 ligases, Ufd4 and Hul5, and we explore their roles in the regulation of the cellular levels of K29-linked unanchored polyubiquitin (polyUb) chains. Accumulating K29-linked unanchored polyUb chains associate with maturing ribosomes to disrupt their assembly, activate the Ribosome assembly stress response (RASTR), and lead to the sequestration of ribosomal proteins at the Intranuclear Quality control compartment (INQ). These findings reveal the physiological relevance of INQ and provide insights into mechanisms of cellular toxicity associated with Ribosomopathies.
PXD028438	37205765	Non-cell-autonomous regulation of interneuron specification mediated by extracellular vesicles. 	Extracellular vesicles are crucial mediators in orchestrating brain development and disease	Brain development, CSTB, Cerebral organoids, Extracellular vesicles, Neurodevelopmental disease	Disruption in neurogenesis and neuronal migration can influence the assembly of cortical circuits, affecting the excitatory-inhibitory balance and resulting in neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders. Using ventral cerebral organoids and dorsoventral cerebral assembloids with mutations in the extracellular matrix gene LGALS3BP, we show that extracellular vesicles released into the extracellular environment regulate the molecular differentiation of neurons, resulting in alterations in migratory dynamics. To investigate how extracellular vesicles affect neuronal specification and migration dynamics, we collected extracellular vesicles from ventral cerebral organoids carrying a mutation in LGALS3BP, previously identified in individuals with cortical malformations and neuropsychiatric disorders. These results revealed differences in protein composition and changes in dorsoventral patterning. Proteins associated with cell fate decision, neuronal migration, and extracellular matrix composition were altered in mutant extracellular vesicles. Moreover, we show that treatment with extracellular vesicles changes the transcriptomic profile in neural progenitor cells. Our results indicate that neuronal molecular differentiation can be influenced by extracellular vesicles.
PXD030439	37207337	UMSBP2 is chromatin remodeler that functions in regulation of gene expression and suppression of antigenic variation in trypanosomes. 	UMSBP2 is chromatin remodeler that functions in regulation of gene expression and suppression of antigenic variation in trypanosomes	Antigenic variation, Chromatin remodeling, Gene expression, UMSBP, trypanosomes	Universal Minicircle Sequence binding proteins (UMSBPs) are CCHC-type zinc-finger proteins that bind the single-stranded G-rich UMS sequence, conserved at the replication origins of minicircles in the kinetoplast DNA, the mitochondrial genome of kinetoplastids. Trypanosoma brucei UMSBP2 has been recently shown to colocalize with telomeres and to play an essential role in chromosome end protection. Here we report that TbUMSBP2 decondenses in vitro DNA molecules, which were condensed by core histones H2B, H4 or linker histone H1. DNA decondensation is mediated via protein-protein interactions between TbUMSBP2 and these histones, independently of its previously described DNA binding activity. Silencing of the TbUMSBP2 gene resulted in a significant decrease in the disassembly of nucleosomes in T. brucei chromatin, a phenotype that could be reverted, by supplementing the knockdown cells with TbUMSBP2. Transcriptome analysis revealed that silencing of TbUMSBP2 affects the expression of multiple genes in T. brucei, with a most significant effect on the upregulation of the subtelomeric variant surface glycoproteins (VSG) genes, which mediate the antigenic variation in African trypanosomes. These observations suggest that UMSBP2 is a chromatin remodeling protein that functions in the regulation of gene expression and plays a role in the control of antigenic variation in T. brucei.
PXD040176	37207340	Miniature RNAs are embedded in an exceptionally protein-rich mitoribosome via an elaborate assembly pathway. 	Composition of the mitoribosome of Diplonema papillatum	Diplonema papillatum, affinity pulldown, assembly intermediate, flagellate, mitoribosome	The mitochondrial ribosome (mitoribosome) has diverged drastically from its evolutionary progenitor, the bacterial ribosome. Structural and compositional diversity is particularly striking in the phylum Euglenozoa, with an extraordinary protein gain in the mitoribosome of kinetoplastid protists. Here we report an even more complex mitoribosome in diplonemids, the sister-group of kinetoplastids. Affinity pulldown of mitoribosomal complexes from Diplonema papillatum, the diplonemid type species, demonstrates that they have a mass of > 5 MDa, contain as many as 130 integral proteins, and exhibit a protein-to-RNA ratio of 11:1. This unusual composition reflects unprecedented structural reduction of ribosomal RNAs, increased size of canonical mitoribosomal proteins, and accretion of three dozen lineage-specific components. In addition, we identified >50 candidate assembly factors, around half of which contribute to early mitoribosome maturation steps. Because little is known about early assembly stages even in model organisms, our investigation of the diplonemid mitoribosome illuminates this process. Together, our results provide a foundation for understanding how runaway evolutionary divergence shapes both biogenesis and function of a complex molecular machine.
PXD040671	37208329	ERK and USP5 govern PD-1 homeostasis via deubiquitination to modulate tumor immunotherapy. 	ERK and USP5 govern PD-1 homeostasis via deubiquitination to modulate tumor immunotherapy	PD-1, Phosphorylation, Tumor Immunotherapy, USP5, Ubiquitination	The programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) is an inhibitory receptor on T cells and plays an important role in promoting cancer immune evasion. While ubiquitin E3 ligases regulating PD-1 stability have been reported, deubiquitinases governing PD-1 homeostasis to modulate tumor immunotherapy remain unknown. Here, we identify the ubiquitin-specific protease 5 (USP5) as a bona fide deubiquitinase for PD-1. Mechanistically, USP5 interacts with PD-1, leading to deubiquitination and stabilization of PD-1. Moreover, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylates PD-1 at Thr234 and promotes PD-1 interaction with USP5. Conditional knockout of Usp5 in T cells increases the production of effector cytokines and retards tumor growth in mice. USP5 inhibition in combination with Trametinib or anti-CTLA-4 has an additive effect on suppressing tumor growth in mice. Together, this study describes a molecular mechanism of ERK/USP5-mediated regulation of PD-1 and identifies potential combinatorial therapeutic strategies for enhancing anti-tumor efficacy.
PXD033690	37208676	Detoxified synthetic bacterial membrane vesicles as a vaccine platform against bacteria and SARS-CoV-2. 	Detoxified synthetic bacterial membrane vesicles as a platform of vaccines against bacteria and SARS-CoV-2	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, label-free proteomics, outer membrane vesicles (OMV), synthetic bacterial vesicles, vaccine delivery	The development of vaccines based on outer membrane vesicles (OMV) that naturally bud off from bacteria is an evolving field in infectious diseases. However, the inherent inflammatory nature of OMV limits their use as human vaccines. This study employed an engineered vesicle technology to develop synthetic bacterial vesicles (SyBV) that activate the immune system without the severe immunotoxicity of OMV. SyBV were generated from bacterial membranes through treatment with detergent and ionic stress. SyBV induced less inflammatory responses in macrophages and in mice compared to natural OMV. Immunization with SyBV or OMV induced comparable antigen-specific adaptive immunity. Specifically, immunization with Pseudomonas aeruginosa-derived SyBV protected mice against bacterial challenge, and this was accompanied by significant reduction in lung cell infiltration and inflammatory cytokines. Further, immunization with Escherichia coli-derived SyBV protected mice against E. coli sepsis, comparable to OMV-immunized group. The protective activity of SyBV was driven by the stimulation of B-cell and T-cell immunity. Also, SyBV were engineered to display the SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein on their surface, and these vesicles induced specific S1 protein antibody and T-cell responses. Collectively, these results demonstrate that SyBV may be a safe and efficient vaccine platform for the prevention of bacterial and viral infections.
PXD040603	37209815	In-Depth Serum Proteomics Reveals the Trajectory of Hallmarks of Cancer in Hepatitis B Virus-Related Liver Diseases. 	Generation of multi-disease spectral library	DDA, multi-disease, spectral library	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a prevalent cancer in China, with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and liver cirrhosis (LC) being high-risk factors for developing HCC. Here, we determined the serum proteomes (762 proteins) of 125 healthy controls and Hepatitis B virus-infected CHB, LC, and HCC patients and constructed the first cancerous trajectory of liver diseases. The results not only reveal that the majority of altered biological processes were involved in the hallmarks of cancer (inflammation, metastasis, metabolism, vasculature, and coagulation) but also identify potential therapeutic targets in cancerous pathways (i.e., IL17 signaling pathway). Notably, the biomarker panels for detecting HCC in CHB and LC high-risk populations were further developed using machine learning in two cohorts comprised of 200 samples (discovery cohort = 125 and validation cohort = 75). The protein signatures significantly improved the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of HCC (CHB discovery and validation cohort = 0.953 and 0.891, respectively; LC discovery and validation cohort = 0.966 and 0.818, respectively) compared to using the traditional biomarker, alpha-fetoprotein, alone. Finally, selected biomarkers were validated with parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry in an additional cohort (n = 120). Altogether, our results provide fundamental insights into the continuous changes of cancer biology processes in liver diseases and identify candidate protein targets for early detection and intervention.
PXD040273	37210404	Metabolic handoffs between multiple symbionts may benefit the deep-sea bathymodioline mussels. 	Metaproteomics to study metabolic handoffs in the Idas modiolaeformis symbiosis	1D-LC-MS/MS, bacteria-animal symbiosis, bivalve, chemosynthesis, deep-sea, metagenome, metagenomics, metaproteome, metaproteomics, mollusk, symbiosis	Bathymodioline mussels rely on thiotrophic and/or methanotrophic chemosynthetic symbionts for nutrition, yet, secondary heterotrophic symbionts are often present and play an unknown role in the fitness of the organism. The bathymodioline Idas mussels that thrive in gas seeps and on sunken wood in the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean, host at least six symbiont lineages that often co-occur. These lineages include the primary symbionts chemosynthetic methane- and sulfur-oxidizing gammaproteobacteria, and the secondary symbionts, Methylophagaceae, Nitrincolaceae and Flavobacteriaceae, whose physiology and metabolism are obscure. Little is known about if and how these symbionts interact or exchange metabolites. Here we curated metagenome-assembled genomes of Idas modiolaeformis symbionts and used genome-centered metatranscriptomics and metaproteomics to assess key symbiont functions. The Methylophagaceae symbiont is a methylotrophic autotroph, as it encoded and expressed the ribulose monophosphate and Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle enzymes, particularly RuBisCO. The Nitrincolaceae ASP10-02a symbiont likely fuels its metabolism with nitrogen-rich macromolecules and may provide the holobiont with vitamin B12. The Urechidicola (Flavobacteriaceae) symbionts likely degrade glycans and may remove NO. Our findings indicate that these flexible associations allow for expanding the range of substrates and environmental niches, via new metabolic functions and handoffs.
PXD033377	37210583	Cisplatin toxicity is counteracted by the activation of the p38/ATF-7 signaling pathway in post-mitotic C. elegans. 	Cisplatin toxicity is counteracted by the activation of the p38/ATF-7 signaling pathway in post-mitotic C. elegans	Caenorhabditis elegans, cisplatin, drug sensitivity, innate immunity, p38 MAPK	Cisplatin kills proliferating cells via DNA damage but also has profound effects on post-mitotic cells in tumors, kidneys, and neurons. However, the effects of cisplatin on post-mitotic cells are still poorly understood. Among model systems, C. elegans adults are unique in having completely post-mitotic somatic tissues. The p38 MAPK pathway controls ROS detoxification via SKN-1/NRF and immune responses via ATF-7/ATF2. Here, we show that p38 MAPK pathway mutants are sensitive to cisplatin, but while cisplatin exposure increases ROS levels, skn-1 mutants are resistant. Cisplatin exposure leads to phosphorylation of PMK-1/MAPK and ATF-7 and the IRE-1/TRF-1 signaling module functions upstream of the p38 MAPK pathway to activate signaling. We identify the response proteins whose increased abundance depends on IRE-1/p38 MAPK activity as well as cisplatin exposure. Four of these proteins are necessary for protection from cisplatin toxicity, which is characterized by necrotic death. We conclude that the p38 MAPK pathway-driven proteins are crucial for adult cisplatin resilience.
PXD028200	37211381	Plasma exosome proteomics reveals the pathogenesis mechanism of post-stroke cognitive impairment. 	Plasma exosome proteomics reveals the pathogenesis mechanism of post stroke cognitive impairment in Chinese people	blood flow regulation, lipid metabolism, plasma exosome, post stroke cognitive impairment, synaptic plasticity	Exploration and utilization of exosome biomarkers and their related functions provide the possibility for the diagnosis and treatment of post-stroke cognitive impairment (PSCI). To identify the new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of plasma exosome were uzed label-free quantitative proteomics and biological information analysis in PSCI patients. Behavioral assessments were performed, including the Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE), the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), the Barthel index, the Morse Fall Seale (MFS) between control group (n = 10) and PSCI group (n = 10). The blood samples were collected to analyse the biomarker and differentially expressed proteins of plasma exosome using label-free quantitative proteomics and biological information. The exosomes marker proteins were determined by Western blot. The exosome morphology was observed by transmission electron microscopy. The scores of MMSE and MoCA were significantly decreased in the PSCI group. The PT% and high-density lipoprotein decreased and the INR ratio increased in PSCI group. The mean size of exosome was approximately 71.6 nm and the concentration was approximately 6.8E+7 particles/mL. Exosome proteomics identified 259 differentially expressed proteins. The mechanisms of cognitive impairment are related to regulate the degradation of ubiquitinated proteins, calcium dependent protein binding, cell adhesive protein binding, formation of fibrin clot, lipid metabolism and ATP-dependent degradation of ubiquitinated proteins in plasma exosome of PSCI patients. Plasma levels of YWHAZ and BAIAP2 were significantly increased while that of IGHD, ABCB6 and HSPD1 were significantly decreased in PSCI patients. These proteins might be target-related proteins and provide global insights into pathogenesis mechanisms of PSCI at plasma exosome proteins level.
PXD038460	37212837	Deep Profiling of the Proteome Dynamics of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Reference Strain PAO1 under Different Growth Conditions. 	A DIA-based deep proteome profiling of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 reference strain under different growth conditions	Biofilm, Data-independent acquisition, Microbial proteomics, Planktonic culture, Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1	As one of the most common bacterial pathogens causing nosocomial infections, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is highly adaptable to survive under various conditions. Here, we profiled the abundance dynamics of 3489 proteins across different growth stages in the P. aeruginosa reference strain PAO1 using data-independent acquisition-based quantitative proteomics. The proteins differentially expressed during the planktonic growth exhibit several distinct patterns of expression profiles and are relevant to various biological processes, highlighting the continuous adaptation of the PAO1 proteome during the transition from the acceleration phase to the stationary phase. By contrasting the protein expressions in a biofilm to planktonic cells, the known roles of T6SS, phenazine biosynthesis, quorum sensing, and c-di-GMP signaling in the biofilm formation process were confirmed. Additionally, we also discovered several new functional proteins that may play roles in the biofilm formation process. Lastly, we demonstrated the general concordance of protein expressions within operons across various growth states, which permits the study of coexpression protein units, and reversely, the study of regulatory components in the operon structure. Taken together, we present a high-quality and valuable resource on the proteomic dynamics of the P. aeruginosa reference strain PAO1, with the potential of advancing our understanding of the overall physiology of Pseudomonas bacteria.
PXD026908	37216120	A novel IRE1 kinase inhibitor for adjuvant glioblastoma treatment. 	A novel blood brain barrier-permeable IRE1 inhibitor prevents Glioblastoma relapse in mice	Endoplasmic Reticulum, IRE1, Inhibitors, Unfolded Protein Response, glioblastoma	Inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1) is a major mediator of the unfolded protein response (UPR), which is activated upon endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Tumor cells experience ER stress due to adverse microenvironmental cues, a stress overcome by relying on IRE1 signaling as an adaptive mechanism. Herein, we report the discovery of structurally new IRE1 inhibitors identified through the structural exploration of its kinase domain. Characterization in in vitro and in cellular models showed that they inhibit IRE1 signaling and sensitize glioblastoma (GB) cells to the standard chemotherapeutic, temozolomide (TMZ). Finally, we demonstrate that one of these inhibitors, Z4P, permeates the blood-brain barrier (BBB), inhibits GB growth, and prevents relapse in vivo when administered together with TMZ. The hit compound disclosed herein satisfies an unmet need for targeted, non-toxic IRE1 inhibitors and our results support the attractiveness of IRE1 as an adjuvant therapeutic target in GB.
PXD039459	37216206	Proteomics and Lysine Acetylation Modification Reveal the Responses of Pakchoi (Brassica rapa L. ssp. chinensis) to Oxybenzone Stress. 	Proteomics and lysine acetylation modification reveal the responses of pakchoi (Brassica rapa L. ssp. chinensis) to oxybenzone stress	lysine acetylation, oxybenzone, pakchoi	The broad-spectrum UV filter oxybenzone is toxic to plants at environmentally relevant concentrations. Lysine acetylation (LysAc) is one of the essential post-translational modifications (PTMs) in plant signaling responses. The goal of this study was to uncover the LysAc regulatory mechanism in response to toxic exposures to oxybenzone as a first step in elucidating xenobiotic acclimatory reactions by using the model Brassica rapa L. ssp. chinensis. A total of 6124 sites on 2497 proteins were acetylated, 63 proteins were differentially abundant, and 162 proteins were differentially acetylated under oxybenzone treatment. Bioinformatics analysis showed that a large number of antioxidant proteins were significantly acetylated under oxybenzone treatment, implying that LysAc alleviated the adverse effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by inducing antioxidant systems and stress-related proteins; the significant changes in acetylation modification of enzymes involved in different branches of carbon metabolism in plants under oxybenzone treatment mean that plants can change the direction of carbon flow allocation by regulating the activities of carbon metabolism-related enzymes. Our results profile the protein LysAc under oxybenzone treatment and propose an adaptive mechanism at the post-translational level of vascular plants in response to pollutants, providing a dataset reference for future related research.
PXD039682	37216473	Role of complementarity-determining regions 1 and 3 in pathologic amyloid formation by human immunoglobulin kappa1 light chains. 	Role of Complementarity-Determining Regions 1 and 3 in Pathologic Amyloid Formation by Human Immunoglobulin 1 Light Chains	HDX MS, hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, light chain amyloidosis, misfolded states, protein dynamics, protein stability	BACKGROUND: Immunoglobulin light chain (LC) amyloidosis is a life-threatening disease complicated by vast numbers of patient-specific mutations. We explored 14 patient-derived and engineered proteins related to kappa1-family germline genes IGKVLD-33*01 and IGKVLD-39*01. METHODS: Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry analysis of conformational dynamics in recombinant LCs and their fragments was integrated with studies of thermal stability, proteolytic susceptibility, amyloid formation and amyloidogenic sequence propensity. The results were mapped on the structures of native and fibrillary proteins. RESULTS: Proteins from two kappa1 subfamilies showed unexpected differences. Compared to their germline counterparts, amyloid LC related to IGKVLD-33*01 was less stable and formed amyloid faster, whereas amyloid LC related to IGKVLD-39*01 had similar stability and formed amyloid slower, suggesting different major factors influencing amyloidogenesis. In 33*01-related amyloid LC, these factors involved destabilization of the native structure and probable stabilization of amyloid. The atypical behavior of 39*01-related amyloid LC stemmed from increased dynamics/exposure of amyloidogenic segments in betaC'V and betaEV that could initiate aggregation and decreased dynamics/exposure near the Cys23-Cys88 disulfide. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest distinct amyloidogenic pathways for closely related LCs and point to the complementarity-defining regions CDR1 and CDR3, linked via the conserved internal disulfide, as key factors in amyloid formation.
PXD034929	37216643	PRMT4 Facilitates White Adipose Tissue Browning and Thermogenesis by Methylating PPARgamma. 	Mass spectrometry identification of PPARgamma methylation sites	PPARgamma methylation sites	Obesity is a global health threat, and the induction of white adipose tissue (WAT) browning presents a promising therapeutic method for it. Recent publications revealed the essential role of protein arginine methyltransferase 4 (PRMT4) in lipid metabolism and adipogenesis, but its involvement in WAT browning has not been investigated. Our initial studies found that the expression of PRMT4 in adipocytes was upregulated in cold-induced WAT browning but downregulated in obesity. Besides, PRMT4 overexpression in inguinal adipose tissue accelerated WAT browning and thermogenesis to protect against high-fat diet-induced obesity and metabolic disruptions. Mechanistically, our work demonstrated that PRMT4 methylated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) on Arg240 to enhance its interaction with the coactivator PR domain-containing protein 16 (PRDM16), leading to the increased expression of thermogenic genes. Taken together, our results uncover the essential role of the PRMT4/PPARgamma/PRDM16 axis in the pathogenesis of WAT browning. ARTICLE HIGHLIGHTS: Protein arginine methyltransferase 4 (PRMT4) expression was upregulated during cold exposure and negatively correlated with body mass of mice and humans. PRMT4 overexpression in inguinal white adipose tissue of mice improved high-fat diet-induced obesity and associated metabolic impairment due to enhanced heat production. PRMT4 methylated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma on Arg240 and facilitated the binding of the coactivator PR domain-containing protein 16 to initiate adipose tissue browning and thermogenesis. PRMT4-dependent methylation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma on Arg240 is important in the process of inguinal white adipose tissue browning.
PXD040073	37216674	RETICULON-LIKE PROTEIN B2 is a proviral factor co-opted for the biogenesis of viral replication organelles in plants. 	TurboID-based proximity labeling identifies reticulon-like protein B2 as a pro-viral factor coopted for the biogenesis of viral replication organelles in plants	Assembly, Beet black scorch virus (BBSV), ER, Interactome, Membrane curvature, Reticulon-like protein B2, TurboID-based proximity labeling (PL), Virus replication complex (VRC)	Endomembrane remodeling to form a viral replication complex (VRC) is crucial for a virus to establish infection in a host. Although the composition and function of VRCs have been intensively studied, host factors involved in the assembly of VRCs for plant RNA viruses have not been fully explored. TurboID-based proximity labeling (PL) has emerged as a robust tool for probing molecular interactions in planta. However, few studies have employed the TurboID-based PL technique for investigating plant virus replication. Here, we used Beet black scorch virus (BBSV), an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-replicating virus, as a model and systematically investigated the composition of BBSV VRCs in Nicotiana benthamiana by fusing the TurboID enzyme to viral replication protein p23. Among the 185 identified p23-proximal proteins, the reticulon family of proteins showed high reproducibility in the mass spectrometry data sets. We focused on RETICULON-LIKE PROTEIN B2 (RTNLB2) and demonstrated its proviral functions in BBSV replication. We showed that RTNLB2 binds to p23, induces ER membrane curvature, and constricts ER tubules to facilitate the assembly of BBSV VRCs. Our comprehensive proximal interactome analysis of BBSV VRCs provides a resource for understanding plant viral replication and offers additional insights into the formation of membrane scaffolds for viral RNA synthesis.
PXD033635	37217472	Genomic instability in individuals with sex determination defects and germ cell cancer. 	Whole proteome analysis of leukocytes isolated from peripheral blood of patients with sex determination defects and germ cell tumors, occurred in Swyer and CAIS.	CAIS, Complete Androgen Insensitivity syndrome, DSD, Differences of sex development, GCT, Germ cell tumor, Swyer syndrome	The ability to transmit genetic information through generations depends on the preservation of genome integrity. Genetic abnormalities affect cell differentiation, causing tissue specification defects and cancer. We addressed genomic instability in individuals with Differences of Sex Development (DSD), characterized by gonadal dysgenesis, infertility, high susceptibility for different types of cancer, especially Germ Cell Tumors (GCT), and in men with testicular GCTs. Whole proteome analysis of leukocytes, supported by specific gene expression assessment, and dysgenic gonads characterization, uncovered DNA damage phenotypes with altered innate immune response and autophagy. Further examination of DNA damage response revealed a reliance on deltaTP53, which was compromised by mutations in the transactivation domain in DSD-individuals with GCT. Accordingly, drug-induced rescue of DNA damage was achieved by autophagy inhibition but not by stabilization of TP53 in DSD-individuals' blood in vitro. This study elucidates possibilities for prophylactic treatments of DSD-individuals, as well as new diagnostic approaches of GCT.
PXD025647	37217485	Dedifferentiated fat cells administration ameliorates abnormal expressions of fatty acids metabolism-related protein expressions and intestinal tissue damage in experimental necrotizing enterocolitis. 	Necrotizing enterocolitis rat_DFAT cell treatment_ileum	DFAT cell treatment, Necrotizing enterocolitis, ileum, rat	Neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a serious disease of premature infants that necessitates intensive care and frequently results in life-threatening complications and high mortality. Dedifferentiated fat cells (DFATs) are mesenchymal stem cell-like cells derived from mature adipocytes. DFATs were intraperitoneally administrated to a rat NEC model, and the treatment effect and its mechanism were evaluated. The NEC model was created using rat pups hand fed with artificial milk, exposed to asphyxia and cold stress, and given oral lipopolysaccharides after cesarean section. The pups were sacrificed 96 h after birth for macroscopic histological examination and proteomics analysis. DFATs administration significantly improved the survival rate from 25.0 (vehicle group) to 60.6% (DFAT group) and revealed a significant reduction in macroscopical, histological, and apoptosis evaluation compared with the vehicle group. Additionally, the expression of C-C motif ligand 2 was significantly decreased, and that of interleukin-6 decreased in the DFAT group. DFAT administration ameliorated 93 proteins mainly related to proteins of fatty acid metabolism of the 436 proteins up-/down-regulated by NEC. DFATs improved mortality and restored damaged intestinal tissues in NEC, possibly by improving the abnormal expression of fatty acid-related proteins and reducing inflammation.
PXD034789	37219084	Deep Proteomics Network and Machine Learning Analysis of Human Cerebrospinal Fluid in Japanese Encephalitis Virus Infection. 	- Deep proteomics network and machine learning analysis of human cerebrospinal fluid in Japanese encephalitis virus infection	- Neurological infection, Japanese encephalitis virus, Lao PDR, TMT, arbovirus, brain infection, central nervous system infection, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), encephalitis, flavivirus, meningitis	Japanese encephalitis virus is a leading cause of neurological infection in the Asia-Pacific region with no means of detection in more remote areas. We aimed to test the hypothesis of a Japanese encephalitis (JE) protein signature in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that could be harnessed in a rapid diagnostic test (RDT), contribute to understanding the host response and predict outcome during infection. Liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), using extensive offline fractionation and tandem mass tag labeling (TMT), enabled comparison of the deep CSF proteome in JE vs other confirmed neurological infections (non-JE). Verification was performed using data-independent acquisition (DIA) LC-MS/MS. 5,070 proteins were identified, including 4,805 human proteins and 265 pathogen proteins. Feature selection and predictive modeling using TMT analysis of 147 patient samples enabled the development of a nine-protein JE diagnostic signature. This was tested using DIA analysis of an independent group of 16 patient samples, demonstrating 82% accuracy. Ultimately, validation in a larger group of patients and different locations could help refine the list to 2-3 proteins for an RDT. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD034789 and 10.6019/PXD034789.
PXD019537	37219088	Protein interactome of 3',5'-cAMP reveals its role in regulating the actin cytoskeleton. 	3',5'-cAMP affects actin cytoskeleton dynamics by direct binding to actin.	actin, cAMP, cytoskeleton, signalling	Identification of protein interactors is ideally suited for the functional characterization of small molecules. 3',5'-cAMP is an evolutionary ancient signaling metabolite largely uncharacterized in plants. To tap into the physiological roles of 3',5'-cAMP, we used a chemo-proteomics approach, thermal proteome profiling (TPP), for the unbiased identification of 3',5'-cAMP protein targets. TPP measures shifts in the protein thermal stability upon ligand binding. Comprehensive proteomics analysis yielded a list of 51 proteins significantly altered in their thermal stability upon incubation with 3',5'-cAMP. The list contained metabolic enzymes, ribosomal subunits, translation initiation factors, and proteins associated with the regulation of plant growth such as CELL DIVISION CYCLE 48. To functionally validate obtained results, we focused on the role of 3',5'-cAMP in regulating the actin cytoskeleton suggested by the presence of actin among the 51 identified proteins. 3',5'-cAMP supplementation affected actin organization by inducing actin-bundling. Consistent with these results, the increase in 3',5'-cAMP levels, obtained either by feeding or by chemical modulation of 3',5'-cAMP metabolism, was sufficient to partially rescue the short hypocotyl phenotype of the actin2 actin7 mutant, severely compromised in actin level. The observed rescue was specific to 3',5'-cAMP, as demonstrated using a positional isomer 2',3'-cAMP, and true for the nanomolar 3',5'-cAMP concentrations reported for plant cells. In vitro characterization of the 3',5'-cAMP-actin pairing argues against a direct interaction between actin and 3',5'-cAMP. Alternative mechanisms by which 3',5'-cAMP would affect actin dynamics, such as by interfering with calcium signaling, are discussed. In summary, our work provides a specific resource, 3',5'-cAMP interactome, as well as functional insight into 3',5'-cAMP-mediated regulation in plants.
PXD038413	37219895	Automated Proteomics Workflows for High-Throughput Library Generation and Biomarker Detection Using Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Automated proteomics workflows for consistent library generation and label-free protein quantitation in 96-well format and across different samples types	Cattle, Myocardial Infacrction, Sheep	Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra-mass spectrometry underpinned by advanced bioinformatics offers a framework for comprehensive analysis of proteomes and the discovery of robust biomarkers. However, the lack of a generic sample preparation platform to tackle the heterogeneity of material collected from different sources may be a limiting factor to the broad application of this technique. We have developed universal and fully automated workflows using a robotic sample preparation platform, which enabled in-depth and reproducible proteome coverage and characterization of bovine and ovine specimens representing healthy animals and a model of myocardial infarction. High correlation (R(2) = 0.85) between sheep proteomics and transcriptomics datasets validated the developments. The findings suggest that automated workflows can be employed for various clinical applications across different animal species and animal models of health and disease.
PXD037494	37220749	A multi-scale map of protein assemblies in the DNA damage response. 	A multi-scale map of protein assemblies in the DNA damage response	DNA damage response, DNA repair, protein assembly	The DNA damage response (DDR) ensures error-free DNA replication and transcription and is disrupted in numerous diseases. An ongoing challenge is to determine the proteins orchestrating DDR and their organization into complexes, including constitutive interactions and those responding to genomic insult. Here, we use multi-conditional network analysis to systematically map DDR assemblies at multiple scales. Affinity purifications of 21 DDR proteins, with/without genotoxin exposure, are combined with multi-omics data to reveal a hierarchical organization of 605 proteins into 109 assemblies. The map captures canonical repair mechanisms and proposes new DDR-associated proteins extending to stress, transport, and chromatin functions. We find that protein assemblies closely align with genetic dependencies in processing specific genotoxins and that proteins in multiple assemblies typically act in multiple genotoxin responses. Follow-up by DDR functional readouts newly implicates 12 assembly members in double-strand-break repair. The DNA damage response assemblies map is available for interactive visualization and query (ccmi.org/ddram/).
PXD039461	37220855	Actin-binding protein filamin B regulates the cell-surface retention of endothelial sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 1. 	TurboID-catalyzed proximity biotin labeling of S1PR1-WT/-TM4	TurboID, biotin-ligase	Sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1) is a G protein-coupled receptor essential for vascular development and postnatal vascular homeostasis. When exposed to sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) in the blood of ~1 muM, S1PR1 in endothelial cells retains cell-surface localization, while lymphocyte S1PR1 shows almost complete internalization, suggesting the cell-surface retention of S1PR1 is endothelial cell specific. To identify regulating factors that function to retain S1PR1 on the endothelial cell surface, here we utilized an enzyme-catalyzed proximity labeling technique followed by proteomic analyses. We identified Filamin B (FLNB), an actin-binding protein involved in F-actin cross-linking, as a candidate regulating protein. We show FLNB knockdown by RNA interference induced massive internalization of S1PR1 into early endosomes, which was partially ligand dependent and required receptor phosphorylation. Further investigation showed FLNB was also important for the recycling of internalized S1PR1 back to the cell surface. FLNB knockdown did not affect the localization of S1PR3, another S1P receptor subtype expressed in endothelial cells, nor did it affect localization of ectopically expressed beta2-adrenergic receptor. Functionally, we show FLNB knockdown in endothelial cells impaired S1P-induced intracellular phosphorylation events and directed cell migration and enhancement of the vascular barrier. Taken together, our results demonstrate that FLNB is a novel regulator critical for S1PR1 cell-surface localization and thereby proper endothelial cell function.
PXD037678	37221179	Genetically encoded photocatalytic protein labeling enables spatially-resolved profiling of intracellular proteome. 	Genetically encoded photocatalytic protein labeling enables spatially-resolved profiling of intracellular proteome	miniSOG SOPP3 proximity labeling photosensitive protein singlet oxygen	Mapping the subcellular organization of proteins is crucial for understanding their biological functions. Herein, we report a reactive oxygen species induced protein labeling and identification (RinID) method for profiling subcellular proteome in the context of living cells. Our method capitalizes on a genetically encoded photocatalyst, miniSOG, to locally generate singlet oxygen that reacts with proximal proteins. Labeled proteins are conjugated in situ with an exogenously supplied nucleophilic probe, which serves as a functional handle for subsequent affinity enrichment and mass spectrometry-based protein identification. From a panel of nucleophilic compounds, we identify biotin-conjugated aniline and propargyl amine as highly reactive probes. As a demonstration of the spatial specificity and depth of coverage in mammalian cells, we apply RinID in the mitochondrial matrix, capturing 477 mitochondrial proteins with 94% specificity. We further demonstrate the broad applicability of RinID in various subcellular compartments, including the nucleus and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The temporal control of RinID enables pulse-chase labeling of ER proteome in HeLa cells, which reveals substantially higher clearance rate for secreted proteins than ER resident proteins.
PXD037069	37221237	Microbial synthesis of Prussian blue for potentiating checkpoint blockade immunotherapy. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the expression of various proteins in mice during the tumor treatment	and antioxidant activity, cell killing, immune system, signalling, stimulus	Cancer immunotherapy is revolutionizing oncology. The marriage of nanotechnology and immunotherapy offers a great opportunity to amplify antitumor immune response in a safe and effective manner. Here, electrochemically active Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 can be applied to produce FDA-approved Prussian blue nanoparticles on a large-scale. We present a mitochondria-targeting nanoplatform, MiBaMc, which consists of Prussian blue decorated bacteria membrane fragments having further modifications with chlorin e6 and triphenylphosphine. We find that MiBaMc specifically targets mitochondria and induces amplified photo-damages and immunogenic cell death of tumor cells under light irradiation. The released tumor antigens subsequently promote the maturation of dendritic cells in tumor-draining lymph nodes, eliciting T cell-mediated immune response. In two tumor-bearing mouse models using female mice, MiBaMc triggered phototherapy synergizes with anti-PDL1 blocking antibody for enhanced tumor inhibition. Collectively, the present study demonstrates biological precipitation synthetic strategy of targeted nanoparticles holds great potential for the preparation of microbial membrane-based nanoplatforms to boost antitumor immunity.
PXD037907	37221403	TMTC1 promotes invasiveness of ovarian cancer cells through integrins beta1 and beta4. 	TMTC1 promotes invasiveness of ovarian cancer	O-mannosylation, Ovarian cancer, TMTC1	Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecological malignancy and is characterized by peritoneal disseminated metastasis. Although O-mannosyltransferase TMTC1 is highly expressed by ovarian cancer, its pathophysiological role in ovarian cancer remains unclear. Here, immunohistochemistry showed that TMTC1 was overexpressed in ovarian cancer tissues compared with adjacent normal ovarian tissues, and high TMTC1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in patients with ovarian cancer. Silencing TMTC1 reduced ovarian cancer cell viability, migration, and invasion in vitro, as well as suppressed peritoneal tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. Moreover, TMTC1 knockdown reduced cell-laminin adhesion, which was associated with the decreased phosphorylation of FAK at pY397. Conversely, TMTC1 overexpression promoted these malignant properties in ovarian cancer cells. Glycoproteomic analysis and Concanavalin A (ConA) pull-down assays showed that integrins beta1 and beta4 were novel O-mannosylated protein substrates of TMTC1. Furthermore, TMTC1-mediated cell migration and invasion were significantly reversed by siRNA-mediated knockdown of integrin beta1 or beta4. Collectively, these results suggest that TMTC1-mediated invasive behaviors are primarily through integrins beta1 and beta4 and that TMTC1 is a potential therapeutic target for ovarian cancer.
PXD039732	37221600	TMT proteomics analysis reveals the mechanism of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis and effects of Ginseng honeysuckle superfine powdered tea. 	pulmonary fibrosis and TMT-labeled Quantitative Proteomics	TMT-labeled Quantitative Proteomics, pulmonary fibrosis	BACKGROUND: Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic and potentially fatal lung disease and disorder. Although the active ingredients of ginseng honeysuckle superfine powdered tea (GHSPT) have been proven to have anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, the mechanism of GHSPT on PF remains unclear. The present study was to explore the underlying mechanism of GHSPT in treating PF based on proteomics and network pharmacology analysis and to confirm it in vivo. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used intratracheal instillation of bleomycin to induce the PF mouse model and GHSPT (640 mg/kg) intragastrically administrated to PF mice for 21 days. The lung tissues were harvested for TMT-based proteomics. The UPLC-Q-Exactive MS/MS analyze the serum migrant compounds of GHSPT in the PF mice. Moreover, components of GHSPT were harvested from the pharmacology database of the TCMSP system. PF-related targets were retrieved using NCBI and GeneCards databases. RESULTS: Our results showed that GHSPT significantly alleviated PF mice. Proteomics analysis showed that 525 proteins had significantly changed in the lung of untreated PF mice. Among them, 19 differential proteins were back-regulated to normal levels after GHSPT therapy. Moreover, 25 compounds originating from GHSPT were identified in the serum sample. Network analysis showed 159 active ingredients and 92 drug targets against PF. The signaling pathways include apoptosis, ferroptosis, cytokine-cytokine receptor, P53, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. CONCLUSION: The evidence suggests that GHSPT might play an effective role in the treatment of PF by multi-target interventions against multiple signaling pathways.
PXD035613	37221815	Chronic hyperglycemia reduces the expression of intercellular adhesion molecules and increases intercellular hyperpermeability in the periodontal epithelium. 	Chronic  high glucose condition reduced expressions of intercellular adhesion molecules and increased intercellular hyperpermeability in periodontal epithelium.	rat gingival tissues	BACKGROUND/AIMS: Hyperglycemia in diabetes is closely associated with periodontal disease progression. This study aimed to investigate the effect of hyperglycemia on the barrier function of gingival epithelial cells as a cause of hyperglycemia-exacerbated periodontitis in diabetes mellitus. METHODS: The abnormal expression of adhesion molecules in gingival epithelium in diabetes was compared between db/db and control mice. To study the effects of hyperglycemia on interepithelial cell permeability, the mRNA and protein expressions of adhesion molecules were investigated using a human gingival epithelial cell line (epi 4 cells) in the presence of either 5.5 mM glucose (NG) or 30 mM glucose (HG). Immunocytochemical and histological analyses were performed. We also studied HG-related intracellular signaling to assess abnormal adhesion molecule expression in the cultured epi 4 cells. RESULTS: The results of the proteomic analysis implied the abnormal regulation of cell-cell adhesion, and mRNA and protein expression assessments revealed the significant downregulation of Claudin1 expression in the gingival tissues of db/db mice (p < .05 vs control). Similarly, the mRNA and protein expressions of adhesion molecules were lower in epi 4 cells cultured under HG conditions than in those cultured under NG conditions (p < .05). Three-dimensional culture and transmission electron microscopy revealed reduced thickness of the epithelial cell layers with no flattened apical cells and heterogeneously arranged intercellular spaces among adjacent epi 4 cells under the HG. These results were consistent with the increased permeability of epi 4 cells under the HG relative to that of cells under the NG. This abnormal expression of intercellular adhesion molecules under the HG was related to the increased expression of receptors for advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and oxidative stress relative to that seen under the NG, along with stimulation of ERK1/2 phosphorylation in epi 4 cells. CONCLUSIONS: High glucose-induced impairment of intercellular adhesion molecule expression in gingival epithelial cells was related to the intercellular permeability of gingival cells, representing a possible link to hyperglycemia-related AGE signaling, oxidative stress, and ERK1/2 activation.
PXD029391	37223358	Hidden in plain sight: challenges in proteomics detection of small ORF-encoded polypeptides. 	Hidden in plain sight; challenges in proteomics detection of small ORF-encoded polypeptides.	Peptidomics, SEPs, Salmonella	Genomic studies of bacteria have long pointed toward widespread prevalence of small open reading frames (sORFs) encoding for short proteins, <100 amino acids in length. Despite the mounting genomic evidence of their robust expression, relatively little progress has been made in their mass spectrometry-based detection and various blanket statements have been used to explain this observed discrepancy. In this study, we provide a large-scale riboproteogenomics investigation of the challenging nature of proteomic detection of such small proteins as informed by conditional translation data. A panel of physiochemical properties alongside recently developed mass spectrometry detectability metrics was interrogated to provide a comprehensive evidence-based assessment of sORF-encoded polypeptide (SEP) detectability. Moreover, a large-scale proteomics and translatomics compendium of proteins produced by Salmonella Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium), a model human pathogen, across a panel of growth conditions is presented and used in support of our in silico SEP detectability analysis. This integrative approach is used to provide a data-driven census of small proteins expressed by S. Typhimurium across growth phases and infection-relevant conditions. Taken together, our study pinpoints current limitations in proteomics-based detection of novel small proteins currently missing from bacterial genome annotations.
PXD037008	37223730	Characterization of membrane vesicles in Alteromonas macleodii indicates potential roles in their copiotrophic lifestyle. 	Membrane vesicles (MVs) in Alteromonas macleodii	extracellular enzymes, marine bacteria, vesicles	Bacterial membrane vesicles (MVs) are abundant in the oceans, but their potential functional roles remain unclear. In this study we characterized MV production and protein content of six strains of Alteromonas macleodii, a cosmopolitan marine bacterium. Alteromonas macleodii strains varied in their MV production rates, with some releasing up to 30 MVs per cell per generation. Microscopy imaging revealed heterogenous MV morphologies, including some MVs aggregated within larger membrane structures. Proteomic characterization revealed that A. macleodii MVs are rich in membrane proteins related to iron and phosphate uptake, as well as proteins with potential functions in biofilm formation. Furthermore, MVs harbored ectoenzymes, such as aminopeptidases and alkaline phosphatases, which comprised up to 20% of the total extracellular enzymatic activity. Our results suggest that A. macleodii MVs may support its growth through generation of extracellular 'hotspots' that facilitate access to essential substrates. This study provides an important basis to decipher the ecological relevance of MVs in heterotrophic marine bacteria.
PXD035899	37224244	Proteomic identification of beer brewing products in the ground layer of Danish Golden Age paintings. 	Proteomic  identification of beer brewing products in the ground layer of Danish Golden Age paintings	Danish Golden Age, cereal, cultural heritage, palaeoproteomics	The application of mass spectrometry-based proteomics to artworks provides accurate and detailed characterization of protein-based materials used in their production. This is highly valuable to plan conservation strategies and reconstruct the artwork's history. In this work, the proteomic analysis of canvas paintings from the Danish Golden Age led to the confident identification of cereal and yeast proteins in the ground layer. This proteomic profile points to a (by-)product of beer brewing, in agreement with local artists' manuals. The use of this unconventional binder can be connected to the workshops within the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. The mass spectrometric dataset generated from proteomics was also processed with a metabolomics workflow. The spectral matches observed supported the proteomic conclusions, and, in at least one sample, suggested the use of drying oils. These results highlight the value of untargeted proteomics in heritage science, correlating unconventional artistic materials with local culture and practices.
PXD040405	37224962	The U1 antisense morpholino oligonucleotide (AMO) disrupts U1 snRNP structure to promote intronic PCPA modification of pre-mRNAs. 	RNA MS2-tag based affinity method was used to purify 3' processing factors associated with intronic PAS processing	Intronic PAS processing factors identification	Functional depletion of the U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) with a 25 nt U1 AMO (antisense morpholino oligonucleotide) may lead to intronic premature cleavage and polyadenylation of thousands of genes, a phenomenon known as U1 snRNP telescripting; however, the underlying mechanism remains elusive. In this study, we demonstrated that U1 AMO could disrupt U1 snRNP structure both in vitro and in vivo, thereby affecting the U1 snRNP-RNAP polymerase II interaction. By performing chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing for phosphorylation of Ser2 and Ser5 of the C-terminal domain of RPB1, the largest subunit of RNAP polymerase II, we showed that transcription elongation was disturbed upon U1 AMO treatment, with a particular high phosphorylation of Ser2 signal at intronic cryptic polyadenylation sites (PASs). In addition, we showed that core 3'processing factors CPSF/CstF are involved in the processing of intronic cryptic PAS. Their recruitment accumulated toward cryptic PASs upon U1 AMO treatment, as indicated by chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and individual-nucleotide resolution CrossLinking and ImmunoPrecipitation sequencing analysis. Conclusively, our data suggest that disruption of U1 snRNP structure mediated by U1 AMO provides a key for understanding the U1 telescripting mechanism.
PXD041335	37224963	Mistranslation of the genetic code by a new family of bacterial transfer RNAs. 	Mistranslation of the genetic code by a new family of bacterial transfer RNAs	Streptomyces, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, genetic code, mistranslation, protein synthesis, tRNA, translation	The correct coupling of amino acids with transfer RNAs (tRNAs) is vital for translating genetic information into functional proteins. Errors during this process lead to mistranslation, where a codon is translated using the wrong amino acid. While unregulated and prolonged mistranslation is often toxic, growing evidence suggests that organisms, from bacteria to humans, can induce and use mistranslation as a mechanism to overcome unfavorable environmental conditions. Most known cases of mistranslation are caused by translation factors with poor substrate specificity or when substrate discrimination is sensitive to molecular changes such as mutations or posttranslational modifications. Here we report two novel families of tRNAs, encoded by bacteria from the Streptomyces and Kitasatospora genera, that adopted dual identities by integrating the anticodons AUU (for Asn) or AGU (for Thr) into the structure of a distinct proline tRNA. These tRNAs are typically encoded next to a full-length or truncated version of a distinct isoform of bacterial-type prolyl-tRNA synthetase. Using two protein reporters, we showed that these tRNAs translate asparagine and threonine codons with proline. Moreover, when expressed in Escherichia coli, the tRNAs cause varying growth defects due to global Asn-to-Pro and Thr-to-Pro mutations. Yet, proteome-wide substitutions of Asn with Pro induced by tRNA expression increased cell tolerance to the antibiotic carbenicillin, indicating that Pro mistranslation can be beneficial under certain conditions. Collectively, our results significantly expand the catalog of organisms known to possess dedicated mistranslation machinery and support the concept that mistranslation is a mechanism for cellular resiliency against environmental stress.
PXD035864	37225018	Parallel Proteomic Comparison of Mutants With Altered Carbon Metabolism Reveals Hik8 Regulation of PII Phosphorylation and Glycogen Accumulation in a Cyanobacterium. 	Parallel comparison of mutant proteomes with altered carbon metabolism reveals Hik8 regulates PII phosphorylation and the basal level glycogen accumulation in a cyanobacterium	Synechocystis, carbon metabolism, cyanobacteria	Carbon metabolism is central to photosynthetic organisms and involves the coordinated operation and regulation of numerous proteins. In cyanobacteria, proteins involved in carbon metabolism are regulated by multiple regulators including the RNA polymerase sigma factor SigE, the histidine kinases Hik8, Hik31 and its plasmid-borne paralog Slr6041, and the response regulator Rre37. To understand the specificity and the cross-talk of such regulations, we simultaneously and quantitatively compared the proteomes of the gene knockout mutants for the regulators. A number of proteins showing differential expression in one or more mutants were identified, including four proteins that are unanimously upregulated or downregulated in all five mutants. These represent the important nodes of the intricate and elegant regulatory network for carbon metabolism. Moreover, serine phosphorylation of PII, a key signaling protein sensing and regulating in vivo carbon/nitrogen (C/N) homeostasis through reversible phosphorylation, is massively increased with a concomitant significant decrease in glycogen content only in the hik8-knockout mutant, which also displays impaired dark viability. An unphosphorylatable PII S49A substitution restored the glycogen content and rescued the dark viability of the mutant. Together, our study not only establishes the quantitative relationship between the targets and the corresponding regulators and elucidated their specificity and cross-talk but also unveils that Hik8 regulates glycogen accumulation through negative regulation of PII phosphorylation, providing the first line of evidence that links the two-component system with PII-mediated signal transduction and implicates them in the regulation of carbon metabolism.
PXD040939	37225161	Combination of in vivo proximity labeling and co-immunoprecipitation identifies the host target network of a tumor-inducing effector in the fungal maize pathogen Ustilago maydis. 	Combination of in-vivo proximity labeling and co-immunoprecipitation identifies the host target network of a tumor-inducing effector in the fungal maize pathogen Ustilago maydis	TurboID, Ustilago maydis, Zea mays, effector, plant-pathogen interaction	Plant pathogens secrete effectors, which target host proteins to facilitate infection. The Ustilago maydis effector UmSee1 is required for tumor formation in the leaf during infection of maize. UmSee1 interacts with maize SGT1 (suppressor of G2 allele of skp1) and blocks its phosphorylation in vivo. In the absence of UmSee1, U. maydis cannot trigger tumor formation in the bundle sheath. However, it remains unclear which host processes are manipulated by UmSee1 and the UmSee1-SGT1 interaction to cause the observed phenotype. Proximity-dependent protein labeling involving the turbo biotin ligase tag (TurboID) for proximal labeling of proteins is a powerful tool for identifying the protein interactome. We have generated transgenic U. maydis that secretes biotin ligase-fused See1 effector (UmSee1-TurboID-3HA) directly into maize cells. This approach, in combination with conventional co-immunoprecipitation, allowed the identification of additional UmSee1 interactors in maize cells. Collectively, our data identified three ubiquitin-proteasome pathway-related proteins (ZmSIP1, ZmSIP2, and ZmSIP3) that either interact with or are close to UmSee1 during host infection of maize with U. maydis. ZmSIP3 represents a cell cycle regulator whose degradation appears to be promoted in the presence of UmSee1. Our data provide a possible explanation of the requirement for UmSee1 in tumor formation during U. maydis-Zea mays interaction.
PXD027993	37225977	A small-molecule PI3Kalpha activator for cardioprotection and neuroregeneration. 	Phosphoproteomic study looking at the effect of a novel PI3Kalpha modulator on PI3Kalpha-WT and PI3Kalpha-KO  mouse embryonic fibroblastsPhosphoproteomic study looking at the effect of a novel PI3Kalpha modulator on PI3Kalpha-WT and PI3Kalpha-KO  mouse embryonic fibroblast	LC-MS, LFQ, MEFs, PI3Kalpha, phosphoproteomics	Harnessing the potential beneficial effects of kinase signalling through the generation of direct kinase activators remains an underexplored area of drug development(1-5). This also applies to the PI3K signalling pathway, which has been extensively targeted by inhibitors for conditions with PI3K overactivation, such as cancer and immune dysregulation. Here we report the discovery of UCL-TRO-1938 (referred to as 1938 hereon), a small-molecule activator of the PI3Kalpha isoform, a crucial effector of growth factor signalling. 1938 allosterically activates PI3Kalpha through a distinct mechanism by enhancing multiple steps of the PI3Kalpha catalytic cycle and causes both local and global conformational changes in the PI3Kalpha structure. This compound is selective for PI3Kalpha over other PI3K isoforms and multiple protein and lipid kinases. It transiently activates PI3K signalling in all rodent and human cells tested, resulting in cellular responses such as proliferation and neurite outgrowth. In rodent models, acute treatment with 1938 provides cardioprotection from ischaemia-reperfusion injury and, after local administration, enhances nerve regeneration following nerve crush. This study identifies a chemical tool to directly probe the PI3Kalpha signalling pathway and a new approach to modulate PI3K activity, widening the therapeutic potential of targeting these enzymes through short-term activation for tissue protection and regeneration. Our findings illustrate the potential of activating kinases for therapeutic benefit, a currently largely untapped area of drug development.
PXD032718	37225994	Heteromeric clusters of ubiquitinated ER-shaping proteins drive ER-phagy. 	ARL6IP1 is an interacting partner of the ER-phagy receptor FAM134B	ARL6IP1, HA FAM134B	Membrane-shaping proteins characterized by reticulon homology domains play an important part in the dynamic remodelling of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). An example of such a protein is FAM134B, which can bind LC3 proteins and mediate the degradation of ER sheets through selective autophagy (ER-phagy)(1). Mutations in FAM134B result in a neurodegenerative disorder in humans that mainly affects sensory and autonomic neurons(2). Here we report that ARL6IP1, another ER-shaping protein that contains a reticulon homology domain and is associated with sensory loss(3), interacts with FAM134B and participates in the formation of heteromeric multi-protein clusters required for ER-phagy. Moreover, ubiquitination of ARL6IP1 promotes this process. Accordingly, disruption of Arl6ip1 in mice causes an expansion of ER sheets in sensory neurons that degenerate over time. Primary cells obtained from Arl6ip1-deficient mice or from patients display incomplete budding of ER membranes and severe impairment of ER-phagy flux. Therefore, we propose that the clustering of ubiquitinated ER-shaping proteins facilitates the dynamic remodelling of the ER during ER-phagy and is important for neuronal maintenance.
PXD032741	37225996	Ubiquitination regulates ER-phagy and remodelling of endoplasmic reticulum. 	FAM134B oligomer ubiquitination and ER-phagy	Venus FAM134B ubiquitinated sites	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) undergoes continuous remodelling via a selective autophagy pathway, known as ER-phagy(1). ER-phagy receptors have a central role in this process(2), but the regulatory mechanism remains largely unknown. Here we report that ubiquitination of the ER-phagy receptor FAM134B within its reticulon homology domain (RHD) promotes receptor clustering and binding to lipidated LC3B, thereby stimulating ER-phagy. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations showed how ubiquitination perturbs the RHD structure in model bilayers and enhances membrane curvature induction. Ubiquitin molecules on RHDs mediate interactions between neighbouring RHDs to form dense receptor clusters that facilitate the large-scale remodelling of lipid bilayers. Membrane remodelling was reconstituted in vitro with liposomes and ubiquitinated FAM134B. Using super-resolution microscopy, we discovered FAM134B nanoclusters and microclusters in cells. Quantitative image analysis revealed a ubiquitin-mediated increase in FAM134B oligomerization and cluster size. We found that the E3 ligase AMFR, within multimeric ER-phagy receptor clusters, catalyses FAM134B ubiquitination and regulates the dynamic flux of ER-phagy. Our results show that ubiquitination enhances RHD functions via receptor clustering, facilitates ER-phagy and controls ER remodelling in response to cellular demands.
PXD035239	37227083	Lysine Trimethylation in Planktonic and Pellicle Modes of Growth in Acinetobacter baumannii. 	Lysine trimethylation in planktonic and pellicle modes of growth in Acinetobacter baumannii	Acinetobacter baumannii, lysine trimethylation, pellicle, planktonic	Over the past 30 years, Acinetobacter baumannii has been described as an important nosocomial pathogen due to frequent ventilator-associated infections. Many biological processes of A. baumannii remain elusive, such as the formation of an air-liquid biofilm (pellicle). Several studies demonstrated the importance of post-translational modifications (PTMs) in A. baumannii physiology. Here, we investigated K-trimethylation in A. baumannii ATCC 17978 in planktonic and pellicle modes using proteomic analysis. To identify the most high-confidence K-trimethylated peptides, we compared different sample preparation methods (i.e., strong cation exchange, antibody-capture) and processing software (i.e., different database search engines). We identified, for the first time, 84 K-trimethylated proteins, many of which are involved in DNA and protein synthesis (HupB, RplK), transporters (Ata, AdeB), or lipid metabolism processes (FadB, FadD). In comparison with previous studies, several identical lysine residues were observed acetylated or trimethylated, indicating the presence of proteoforms and potential PTM cross-talks. This is the first large-scale proteomic study of trimethylation in A. baumannii and will be an important resource for the scientific community (availability in Pride repository under accession PXD035239).
PXD040786	37227781	Eculizumab treatment alters the proteometabolome beyond the inhibition of complement. 	Proteomic profiling identifies ITIH3 as a biomarker for disease activity in  myasthenia gravis	AChR, ITIH, biomarker, complement, machine learning, myasthenia gravis, treatment response	Therapeutic strategies targeting complement have revolutionized the treatment of myasthenia gravis (MG). However, a deeper understanding of complement modulation in the human system is required to improve treatment responses and identify off-target effects shaping long-term outcomes. For this reason, we studied a cohort of patients with MG treated with either eculizumab or azathioprine as well as treatment-naive patients using a combined proteomics and metabolomics approach. This strategy validated known effects of eculizumab on the terminal complement cascade. Beyond that, eculizumab modulated the serum proteometabolome as distinct pathways were altered in eculizumab-treated patients, including the oxidative stress response, mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, and lipid metabolism with particular emphasis on arachidonic acid signaling. We detected reduced levels of arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (ALOX5) and leukotriene A4 in eculizumab-treated patients. Mechanistically, ligation of the C5a receptor (C5aR) is needed for ALOX5 metabolism and generation of downstream leukotrienes. As eculizumab prevents cleavage of C5 into C5a, decreased engagement of C5aR may inhibit ALOX5-mediated synthesis of pro-inflammatory leukotrienes. These findings indicate distinct off-target effects induced by eculizumab, illuminating potential mechanisms of action that may be harnessed to improve treatment outcomes.
PXD041161	37228199	An abundance of free regulatory (19S) proteasome particles regulates neuronal synapses. 	An Abundance of Free Proteasomal Regulatory (19S) Particles Regulate Neuronal Synapses Independent of the Proteasome	19S, K48, K63, in-gel digest, native PAGE, neuronal proteasome, neurons, proteasome, synapse, ubiquitin	The proteasome, the major protein-degradation machine in cells, regulates neuronal synapses and long-term information storage. Here, using super-resolution microscopy, we found that the two essential subcomplexes of the proteasome, the regulatory (19S) and catalytic (20S) particles, are differentially distributed within individual rat cortical neurons. We discovered an unexpected abundance of free 19S particles near synapses. The free neuronal 19S particles bind and deubiquitylate lysine 63-ubiquitin (Lys(63)-ub), a non-proteasome-targeting ubiquitin linkage. Pull-down assays revealed a significant overrepresentation of synaptic molecules as Lys(63)-ub interactors. Inhibition of the 19S deubiquitylase activity significantly altered excitatory synaptic transmission and reduced the synaptic availability of AMPA receptors at multiple trafficking points in a proteasome-independent manner. Together, these results reveal a moonlighting function of the regulatory proteasomal subcomplex near synapses.
PXD039975	37228412	APOE as potential biomarkers of moyamoya disease. 	Apolipoprotein E as a potential biomarker of moyamoya disease	apolipoprotein E, bioinformatic, biomarkers, moyamoya disease, proteomic profiling	Objective: The mechanisms underpinning Moyamoya disease (MMD) remain unclear, and effective biomarkers remain unknown. The purpose of this study was to identify novel serum biomarkers of MMD. Methods: Serum samples were collected from 23 patients with MMD and 30 healthy controls (HCs). Serum proteins were identified using tandem tandem-mass-tag (TMT) labeling combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the serum samples were identified using the SwissProt database. The DEPs were assessed using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database, Gene Ontology (GO), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, and hub genes were identified and visualized using Cytoscape software. Microarray datasets GSE157628, GSE189993, and GSE100488 from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were collected. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed miRNAs (DE-miRNAs) were identified, and miRNA targets of DEGs were predicted using the miRWalk3.0 database. Serum apolipoprotein E (APOE) levels were compared in 33 MMD patients and 28 Moyamoya syndrome (MMS) patients to investigate the potential of APOE to be as an MMD biomarker. Results: We identified 85 DEPs, of which 34 were up- and 51 down-regulated. Bioinformatics analysis showed that some DEPs were significantly enriched in cholesterol metabolism. A total of 1105 DEGs were identified in the GSE157628 dataset (842 up- and 263 down-regulated), whereas 1290 were identified in the GSE189993 dataset (200 up- and 1,090 down-regulated). The APOE only overlaps with the upregulated gene expression in Proteomic Profiling and in GEO databases. Functional enrichment analysis demonstrated that APOE was associated with cholesterol metabolism. Moreover, 149 miRNAs of APOE were predicted in the miRWalk3.0 database, and hsa-miR-718 was the only DE-miRNA overlap identified in MMD samples. Serum APOE levels were significantly higher in patients with MMD than in those without. The performance of APOE as an individual biomarker to diagnose MMD was remarkable. Conclusions: We present the first description of the protein profile of patients with MMD. APOE was identified as a potential biomarker for MMD. Cholesterol metabolism was found to potentially be related to MMD, which may provide helpful diagnostic and therapeutic insights for MMD.
PXD040986	37228602	Unveiling a Virulence-Regulating Mechanism in Aeromonas hydrophila: a Quantitative Exoproteomic Analysis of an AraC-Like Protein. 	Quantitative exoproteomic analysis reveals a virulence-regulating mechanism by an AraC-like protein in Aeromonas hydrophila	Aeromonas hydrophila, AraC-like transcription factor, ORF02889, quantitative proteomics, virulence	Bacterial AraC is a transcription factor family that initiates transcription by recruiting RNA polymerase to the promoter and directly regulating various bacterial phenotypes. It also directly regulates various bacterial phenotypes. However, how this transcription factor regulates bacterial virulence and affects host immunity is still largely unknown. In this study, deleting the orf02889 (AraC-like transcription factor) gene in virulent Aeromonas hydrophila LP-2 affected several important phenotypes, such as increasing biofilm formation and siderophore production abilities. Moreover, Deltaorf02889 also significantly decreased the virulence of A. hydrophila and has promising attenuated vaccine potential. To better understand the effects of orf02889 on biological functions, a data independent acquisition (DIA)-based quantitative proteomics method was performed to compare the differentially expressed proteins between Deltaorf02889 and the wild-type strain in extracellular fractions. The following bioinformatics analysis suggested that ORF02889 may regulate various metabolic pathways, such as quorum sensing and ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporter metabolism. Moreover, 10 selected genes from the top 10 decreasing abundances in proteomics data were deleted, and their virulence to zebrafish was evaluated, respectively. The results showed that DeltacorC, Deltaorf00906, and Deltaorf04042 significantly reduced bacterial virulence. Finally, the following chromatin immunoprecipitation and polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-PCR) assay validated that the promoter of corC was directly regulated by ORF02889. Overall, these results provide insight into the biological function of ORF02889 and demonstrate its inherent regulatory mechanism for the virulence of A. hydrophila.
PXD040518	37228670	A ParDE toxin-antitoxin system is responsible for the maintenance of the Yersinia virulence plasmid but not for type III secretion-associated growth inhibition. 	A ParDE toxin-antitoxin system is responsible for maintenance of the Yersinia virulence plasmid, but not for type III secretion-associated growth inhibition	T3SS, Yersinia enterocolitica	Many Gram-negative pathogens utilize the type III secretion system (T3SS) to translocate virulence-promoting effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells. The activity of this system results in a severe reduction of bacterial growth and division, summarized as secretion-associated growth inhibition (SAGI). In Yersinia enterocolitica, the T3SS and related proteins are encoded on a virulence plasmid. We identified a ParDE-like toxin-antitoxin system on this virulence plasmid in genetic proximity to yopE, encoding a T3SS effector. Effectors are strongly upregulated upon activation of the T3SS, indicating a potential role of the ParDE system in the SAGI or maintenance of the virulence plasmid. Expression of the toxin ParE in trans resulted in reduced growth and elongated bacteria, highly reminiscent of the SAGI. Nevertheless, the activity of ParDE is not causal for the SAGI. T3SS activation did not influence ParDE activity; conversely, ParDE had no impact on T3SS assembly or activity itself. However, we found that ParDE ensures the presence of the T3SS across bacterial populations by reducing the loss of the virulence plasmid, especially under conditions relevant to infection. Despite this effect, a subset of bacteria lost the virulence plasmid and regained the ability to divide under secreting conditions, facilitating the possible emergence of T3SS-negative bacteria in late acute and persistent infections.
PXD038473	37230567	In vivo cross-linking-based affinity purification and mass spectrometry for targeting intracellular protein-protein interactions. 	In-vivo crosslinking based affinity purification-mass spectrometry for targeting intracellular protein-protein interactions	DSEP, ERK1, affinity purification, in vivo cross-linking	Comprehensive interactome analysis of targeted proteins is important to understand how proteins work together in regulating functions. Commonly, affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry (AP-MS) has been recognized as the most often used technique for studying protein-protein interactions (PPIs). However, some proteins with weak interactions, which are responsible for key roles in regulation, are easily broken during cell lysis and purification through an AP approach. Herein, we have developed an approach termed in vivo cross-linking-based affinity purification and mass spectrometry (ICAP-MS). By this method, in vivo cross-linking was introduced to covalently fix intracellular PPIs in their functional states to assure all PPIs could be integrally maintained during cell disruption. In addition, the chemically cleavable crosslinkers which were employed enabled unbinding of PPIs for in-depth identification of components within the interactome and biological analysis, while allowing binding of PPIs for cross-linking-mass spectrometry (CXMS)-based direct interaction determination. Multi-level information on targeted PPIs network can be obtained by ICAP-MS, including composition of interacting proteins, as well as direct interacting partners and binding sites. As a proof of concept, the interactome of MAPK3 from 293A cells was profiled with 6.15-fold improvement in identification than by conventional AP-MS. Meanwhile, 184 cross-link site pairs of these PPIs were experimentally identified by CXMS. Furthermore, ICAP-MS was applied in the temporal profiling of MAPK3 interactions under activation by cAMP-mediated pathway. The regulatory manner of MAPK pathways was presented through the quantitative changes of MAPK3 and its interacting proteins at different time points after activation. Therefore, all reported results demonstrated that the ICAP-MS approach may provide comprehensive information on interactome of targeted protein for functional exploration.
PXD038939	37230995	Decoding protein methylation function with thermal stability analysis. 	DECODING PROTEIN METHYLATION FUNCTION WITH THERMAL STABILITY ANALYSIS	Ezh2, PISA, Prmt5, Protein methylation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), mouse embryonic stem cells, thermal stability	Protein methylation is an important modification beyond epigenetics. However, systems analyses of protein methylation lag behind compared to other modifications. Recently, thermal stability analyses have been developed which provide a proxy of a protein functional status. Here, we show that molecular and functional events closely linked to protein methylation can be revealed by the analysis of thermal stability. Using mouse embryonic stem cells as a model, we show that Prmt5 regulates mRNA binding proteins that are enriched in intrinsically disordered regions and involved in liquid-liquid phase separation mechanisms, including the formation of stress granules. Moreover, we reveal a non-canonical function of Ezh2 in mitotic chromosomes and the perichromosomal layer, and identify Mki67 as a putative Ezh2 substrate. Our approach provides an opportunity to systematically explore protein methylation function and represents a rich resource for understanding its role in pluripotency.
PXD041650	37231013	Maximizing protein production by keeping cells at optimal secretory stress levels using real-time control approaches. 	Maximizing protein production by keeping cells at optimal secretory stress levels using real-time control approaches	protein quantification, secretory	Optimizing the production of recombinant proteins is a problem of major industrial and pharmaceutical importance. Secretion of the protein by the host cell considerably simplifies downstream purification processes. However, for many proteins, this is also the limiting production step. Current solutions involve extensive engineering of the chassis cell to facilitate protein trafficking and limit protein degradation triggered by excessive secretion-associated stress. Here, we propose instead a regulation-based strategy in which induction is dynamically adjusted to an optimal strength based on the current stress level of the cells. Using a small collection of hard-to-secrete proteins, a bioreactor-based platform with automated cytometry measurements, and a systematic assay to quantify secreted protein levels, we demonstrate that the secretion sweet spot is indicated by the appearance of a subpopulation of cells that accumulate high amounts of proteins, decrease growth, and face significant stress, that is, experience a secretion burnout. In these cells, adaptations capabilities are overwhelmed by a too strong production. Using these notions, we show for a single-chain antibody variable fragment that secretion levels can be improved by 70% by dynamically keeping the cell population at optimal stress levels using real-time closed-loop control.
PXD041465	37232578	Metabolomics Reveals Gut Microbiota Contribute to PPARalpha Deficiency-Induced Alcoholic Liver Injury. 	Mice liver and urine LC-MS data	LC-MS, Liver, Mice, Urine	Incidence and mortality rates of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is one of the highest in the world. In the present study, we found that the genetic knockout nuclear receptor the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) exacerbated ALD. Lipidomics of the liver revealed changed levels of lipid species encompassing phospholipids, ceramides (CM), and long-chain fatty acids in Ppara-null mice induced by ethanol. Moreover, 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (4-HPA) was changed as induced by ethanol in the metabolome of urine. Moreover, the phylum level analysis showed a decrease in the level of Bacteroidetes and an increase in the level of Firmicutes after alcohol feeding in Ppara-null mice, while there was no change in wild-type mice. In Ppara-null mice, the level of Clostridium_sensu_stricto_1 and Romboutsia were upregulated after alcohol feeding. These data revealed that PPARalpha deficiency potentiated alcohol-induced liver injury through promotion of lipid accumulation, changing the metabolome of urine, and increasing the level of Clostridium_sensu_stricto_1 and Romboutsia. 4-HPA could improve ALD in mice by regulating inflammation and lipid metabolism. Therefore, our findings suggest a novel approach to the treatment of ALD: focusing on the gut microbiota and its metabolites. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD 041465).
PXD036593	37236440	In-Depth Characterization of Apoptosis N-Terminome Reveals a Link Between Caspase-3 Cleavage and Posttranslational N-Terminal Acetylation. 	In vitro characterization of caspase-3 cleavage sites by LATE and HYATNE	Caspase-3, HYTANE, LATE, LysN, Peptidyl-Lys metalloendopeptidase N-terminomics	The N termini of proteins contain information about their biochemical properties and functions. These N termini can be processed by proteases and can undergo other co- or posttranslational modifications. We have developed LATE (LysN Amino Terminal Enrichment), a method that uses selective chemical derivatization of alpha-amines to isolate the N-terminal peptides, in order to improve N-terminome identification in conjunction with other enrichment strategies. We applied LATE alongside another N-terminomic method to study caspase-3-mediated proteolysis both in vitro and during apoptosis in cells. This has enabled us to identify many unreported caspase-3 cleavages, some of which cannot be identified by other methods. Moreover, we have found direct evidence that neo-N-termini generated by caspase-3 cleavage can be further modified by Nt-acetylation. Some of these neo-Nt-acetylation events occur in the early phase of the apoptotic process and may have a role in translation inhibition. This has provided a comprehensive overview of the caspase-3 degradome and has uncovered previously unrecognized cross talk between posttranslational Nt-acetylation and caspase proteolytic pathways.
PXD041281	37236979	SARS-CoV-2 infection causes periodontal fibrotic pathogenesis through deregulating mitochondrial beta-oxidation. 	SARS-CoV-2 infection causes periodontal fibrotic pathogenesis through deregulating mitochondrial beta-oxidation	COVID19, Periodontal, infection	The global high prevalence of COVID-19 is a major challenge for health professionals and patients. SARS-CoV-2 virus has four structural protein components: the spike protein, envelope protein, membrane protein, and nucleocapsid protein. The SARS-CoV-2 virus mutates predominantly in the spike proteins, whilst the other key viral components usually remain stable. Essentially the pathological functions of the SARS-CoV-2 virus on different cell types are still largely unknown. Previous studies have shown that the human oral cavity can potentially act as reservoir of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. However, the consequence of SARS-CoV-2 viral infection on human oral health has not been systematically examined. COVID-19 can cause severe oral mucosa lesions and is likely to be connected with poor periodontal conditions. Fibroblasts are the major cell type inside periodontal ligament (PDL) and express the SARS-CoV-2 receptor: Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), whose expression level can increase upon bacterial infection hence potentially provide a direct route of SARS-CoV-2 infection to PDL fibroblasts. In this research, we aimed to study the pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 viral components on human fibroblasts. We found that by exposing to SARS-CoV-2, especially to the viral envelope and membrane proteins, the human periodontal fibroblasts could develop fibrotic pathogenic phenotypes, including hyperproliferation that was simultaneously induced with increased apoptosis and senescence. The fibrotic degeneration was mediated by a down-regulation of mitochondrial beta-oxidation in the fibroblasts. Fatty acid beta-oxidation inhibitor, etomoxir treatment could mirror the same pathological consequence on the cells, similar to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our results therefore provide novel mechanistic insights into how SARS-CoV-2 infection can affect human periodontal health at the cell and molecular level with potential new therapeutic targets for COVID-19 induced fibrosis.
PXD047843	37237498	Early Solid Diet Supplementation Influences the Proteomics of Rumen Epithelium in Goat Kids. 	Solid diet improved rumen epithelial proteomics	goat kids, solid diet	It is well known that solid diet supplementation in early life can significantly promote rumen development and metabolic function in young ruminants. However, the changes in the expressed proteome and related metabolism in rumen epithelium in response to a supplemented solid diet remain unclear. In this study, rumen epithelial tissue from goats in three diet regimes including milk replacer only (MRO), milk replacer supplemented concentrate (MRC), and milk replacer supplemented concentrate plus alfalfa pellets (MCA) were collected for measurement of the expression of epithelial proteins using proteomic technology (six per group). The results showed that solid diet significantly improved the growth performance of goats, enhanced the ability of rumen fermentation, and promoted the development of epithelial papilla (p < 0.05). Proteome analysis revealed the distinct difference in the expressed protein in the MRC and MCA group compared with the MRO group (42 upregulated proteins and 79 downregulated proteins in MRC; 38 upregulated proteins and 73 downregulated proteins in MCA). Functional analysis showed that solid diet supplementation activated a variety of molecular functions in the epithelium, including protein binding, ATP binding, structural constituent of muscle, etc., in the MRC and MCA groups. Meanwhile, the expression of proteins related to fatty acid metabolism, the PPAR signaling pathway, valine, leucine, and isoleucine degradation, and butanoate metabolism were upregulated, being stimulated by solid feed. In contrast, the proteins associated with carbohydrate digestion and absorption and glycosaminoglycan degradation were downregulated. In addition, the protein expression of enzymes involved in ketone body synthesis in the rumen was generally activated, which was caused by solid feed. In summary, solid feed promoted the development of rumen epithelium by changing the expression of proteins related to fatty acid metabolism, energy synthesis, and signal transduction. The ketone body synthesis pathway might be the most important activated pathway, and provides energy for rumen development.
PXD040272	37237505	The Predatory Stink Bug Arma custos (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) Produces a Complex Proteinaceous Venom to Overcome Caterpillar Prey. 	The predatory stink bug Arma chinensis (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) produces a complex proteinaceous venom to overcome caterpillar prey	bioactivity, predatory stink bugs, transcriptomic, venom	Predatory stink bugs capture prey by injecting salivary venom from their venom glands using specialized stylets. Understanding venom function has been impeded by a scarcity of knowledge of their venom composition. We therefore examined the proteinaceous components of the salivary venom of the predatory stink bug Arma custos (Fabricius, 1794) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae). We used gland extracts and venoms from fifth-instar nymphs or adult females to perform shotgun proteomics combined with venom gland transcriptomics. We found that the venom of A. custos comprised a complex suite of over a hundred individual proteins, including oxidoreductases, transferases, hydrolases, ligases, protease inhibitors, and recognition, transport and binding proteins. Besides the uncharacterized proteins, hydrolases such as venom serine proteases, cathepsins, phospholipase A2, phosphatases, nucleases, alpha-amylases, and chitinases constitute the most abundant protein families. However, salivary proteins shared by and unique to other predatory heteropterans were not detected in the A. custos venom. Injection of the proteinaceous (>3 kDa) venom fraction of A. custos gland extracts or venom into its prey, the larvae of the oriental armyworm Mythimna separata (Walker, 1865), revealed insecticidal activity against lepidopterans. Our data expand the knowledge of heteropteran salivary proteins and suggest predatory asopine bugs as a novel source for bioinsecticides.
PXD041117	37237513	Comparative Analysis of the Venom Proteins from Two Eupelmid Egg Parasitoids Anastatus japonicus and Mesocomys trabalae. 	Venom proteome data of two egg parasitoids	Venom proteome	Parasitic wasps are abundant and diverse Hymenoptera insects that lay their eggs inside or on the external surface of the host and inject venom into the host to create a more favorable environment for the larvae to survive and regulate the host's immunity, metabolism, and development. But research on the composition of egg parasitoid venom is very limited. In this study, we used a combination of transcriptomic and proteomic approaches to identify the protein fractions of the venom in both eupelmid egg parasitoids, Anastatus japonicus and Mesocomys trabalae. We identified 3422 up-regulated venom gland genes (UVGs) in M. trabalae and 3709 in A. japonicus and analyzed their functions comparatively. By proteome sequencing, we identified 956 potential venom proteins in the venom pouch of M. trabalae, of which 186 were contained in UVGs simultaneously. A total of 766 proteins were detected in the venom of A. japonicus, of which 128 venom proteins were highly expressed in the venom glands. At the same time, the functional analysis of these identified venom proteins was carried out separately. We found the venom proteins in M. trabalae are well known but not in A. japonicus, which may be related to the host range. In conclusion, identifying venom proteins in both egg parasitoid species provides a database for studying the function of egg parasitoid venom and its parasitic mechanism.
PXD040414	37239088	Nicotine Administration Augments Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Progression in Rats. 	Nicotine administration augments abdominal aortic aneurysm progression in rats	alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, animal model, aortic aneurysm, inflammation, nicotine, therapeutic strategy, vascular remodeling	Inflammation and elastin degradation are key hallmarks in the pathogenesis of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). It has been acknowledged that activation of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (alpha7nAChRs) attenuates inflammation, termed the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway (CAP). Thus, we hypothesize that low-dose nicotine impairs the progression of elastase-induced AAAs in rats by exerting anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative stress properties. Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent surgical AAA induction with intraluminal elastase infusion. We compared vehicle rats with rats treated with nicotine (1.25 mg/kg/day), and aneurysm progression was monitored by weekly ultrasound images for 28 days. Nicotine treatment significantly promoted AAA progression (p = 0.031). Additionally, gelatin zymography demonstrated that nicotine significantly reduced pro-matrix metalloproteinase (pro-MMP) 2 (p = 0.029) and MMP9 (p = 0.030) activity in aneurysmal tissue. No significant difference was found in the elastin content or the score of elastin degradation between the groups. Neither infiltrating neutrophils nor macrophages, nor aneurysmal messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of pro- or anti-inflammatory cytokines, differed between the vehicle and nicotine groups. Finally, no difference in mRNA levels of markers for anti-oxidative stress or the vascular smooth muscle cells' contractile phenotype was observed. However, proteomics analyses of non-aneurysmal abdominal aortas revealed that nicotine decreased myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate and proteins, in ontology terms, inflammatory response and reactive oxygen species, and in contradiction to augmented AAAs. In conclusion, nicotine at a dose of 1.25 mg/kg/day augments AAA expansion in this elastase AAA model. These results do not support the use of low-dose nicotine administration for the prevention of AAA progression.
PXD005776	37239979	Mix24X, a Lab-Assembled Reference to Evaluate Interpretation Procedures for Tandem Mass Spectrometry Proteotyping of Complex Samples. 	Metaproteomics of an artificial microbiota reference	Metaproteomics, metaproteomics, shotgun proteomics, whole proteome	Correct identification of the microorganisms present in a complex sample is a crucial issue. Proteotyping based on tandem mass spectrometry can help establish an inventory of organisms present in a sample. Evaluation of bioinformatics strategies and tools for mining the recorded datasets is essential to establish confidence in the results obtained and to improve these pipelines in terms of sensitivity and accuracy. Here, we propose several tandem mass spectrometry datasets recorded on an artificial reference consortium comprising 24 bacterial species. This assemblage of environmental and pathogenic bacteria covers 20 different genera and 5 bacterial phyla. The dataset comprises difficult cases, such as the Shigella flexneri species, which is closely related to Escherichia coli, and several highly sequenced clades. Different acquisition strategies simulate real-life scenarios: from rapid survey sampling to exhaustive analysis. We provide access to individual proteomes of each bacterium separately to provide a rational basis for evaluating the assignment strategy of MS/MS spectra when recorded from complex mixtures. This resource should provide an interesting common reference for developers who wish to compare their proteotyping tools and for those interested in evaluating protein assignment when dealing with complex samples, such as microbiomes.
PXD034784	37239993	The Mechanism of Tigecycline Resistance in Acinetobacter baumannii Revealed by Proteomic and Genomic Analysis. 	iTRAQ based proteomic analysis to reveal the mechanism of tigecycline resistance in Acinetobacter baumannii	Acinetobacter baumannii, iTRAQ, tigecycline resistance	The mechanism of tigecycline resistance in A. baumannii remains largely unclear. In this study, we selected a tigecycline-resistant and a tigecycline-susceptible strain from a tigecycline-susceptible and a resistant strain, respectively. Proteomic and genomic analyses were performed to elucidate the variations associated with tigecycline resistance. Our study showed proteins associated with efflux pump, biofilm formation, iron acquisition, stress response, and metabolic ability are upregulated in tigecycline resistant strains, and efflux pump should be the key mechanism for tigecycline resistance. By genomic analysis, we found several changes in the genome that can explain the increased level of efflux pump, including the loss of the global negative regulator hns in the plasmid and the disruption of the hns gene and acrR gene on the chromosome by the insertion of IS5. Collectively, we not only revealed the phenomenon that the efflux pump is mainly responsible for tigecycline resistance, but also highlighted the mechanism at the genomic level, which will help in understanding the resistance mechanism in detail and provide clues for the treatment of clinical multiple drug-resistant A. baumannii.
PXD041369	37243198	A Chemical Proteomics Approach to Discover Regulators of Innate Immune Signaling. 	A chemoproteomics approach to discover regulators of innate immune signaling	AMPK, ATM, ATR, PLK1, RIG-I, interferon, kinases, phosphoproteomics, signaling pathways	Innate immune pathways are tightly regulated to balance an appropriate response to infectious agents and tolerable levels of inflammation. Dysregulation of innate immune pathways can lead to severe autoinflammatory disorders or susceptibility to infections. Here, we aimed to identify kinases in common cellular pathways that regulate innate immune pathways by combining small-scale kinase inhibitor screening with quantitative proteomics. We found that inhibitors of kinases ATM, ATR, AMPK, and PLK1 reduced the induction of interferon-stimulated gene expression in response to innate immune pathway activation by poly(I:C) transfection. However, siRNA depletion of these kinases did not validate findings with kinase inhibitors, suggesting that off-target effects may explain their activities. We mapped the effects of kinase inhibitors to various stages in innate immune pathways. Determining the mechanisms by which kinase inhibitors antagonize these pathways may illuminate novel mechanisms of innate immune pathway control.
PXD040914	37244517	Proteogenomic Features of the Highly Polymorphic Histidine-rich Glycoprotein Arose Late in Evolution. 	Polymorphic Histidine-rich Glycoprotein  LC-MS/MS	1000-genome, Serum proteomics, histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG), plasma proteomics, protein biomarker, proteogenomics	Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) is a liver-produced protein circulating in human serum at high concentrations of around 125 mug/ml. HRG belongs to the family of type-3 cystatins and has been implicated in a plethora of biological processes, albeit that its precise function is still not well understood. Human HRG is a highly polymorphic protein, with at least five variants with minor allele frequencies of more than 10%, variable in populations from different parts of the world. Considering these five mutations we can theoretically expect 3(5) = 243 possible genetic HRG variants in the population. Here, we purified HRG from serum of 44 individual donors and investigated by proteomics the occurrence of different allotypes, each being either homozygote or heterozygote for each of the five mutation sites. We observed that some mutational combinations in HRG were highly favored, while others were apparently missing, although they ought to be present based on the independent assembly of these five mutation sites. To further explore this behavior, we extracted data from the 1000 genome project (n ~ 2500 genomes) and assessed the frequency of different HRG mutants in this larger dataset, observing a prevailing agreement with our proteomics data. From all the proteogenomic data we conclude that the five different mutation sites in HRG are not occurring independently, but several mutations at different sites are fully mutually exclusive, whereas others are highly intwined. Specific mutations do also affect HRG glycosylation. As the levels of HRG have been suggested as a protein biomarker in a variety of biological processes (e.g., aging, COVID-19 severity, severity of bacterial infections), we here conclude that the highly polymorphic nature of the protein needs to be considered in such proteomics evaluations, as these mutations may affect HRG's abundance, structure, posttranslational modifications, and function.
PXD042294	37248220	The COG1-OsSERL2 complex senses cold to trigger signaling network for chilling tolerance in japonica rice. 	The COG1-OsSERL2 complex senses cold to trigger signaling network for chilling tolerance in japonica rice	rice chilling	Improvement of chilling tolerance is a key strategy to face potential menace from abnormal temperature in rice production, which depends on the signaling network triggered by receptors. However, little is known about the QTL genes encoding membrane complexes for sensing cold. Here, Chilling-tolerance in Gengdao/japonica rice 1 (COG1) is isolated from a chromosome segment substitution line containing a QTL (qCS11-jap) for chilling sensitivity. The major gene COG1 is found to confer chilling tolerance in japonica rice. In natural rice populations, only the haplogroup1 encodes a functional COG1. Evolutionary analysis show that COG1 originates from Chinese O. Rufipogon and is fixed in japonica rice during domestication. COG1, a membrane-localized LRR-RLP, targets and activates the kinase OsSERL2 in a cold-induced manner, promoting chilling tolerance. Furthermore, the cold signal transmitted by COG1-OsSERL2 activates OsMAPK3 in the cytoplasm. Our findings reveal a cold-sensing complex, which mediates signaling network for the chilling defense in rice.
PXD041323	37248224	Multi-omic approach characterises the neuroprotective role of retromer in regulating lysosomal health. 	Multiomic Approach Characterises the Neuroprotective Role of Retromer in Regulating Lysosomal Health	Cell Surface Proteome, H4, LysoIP, Neuroglioma, Retromer, Secretome, Whole Cell Proteome	Retromer controls cellular homeostasis through regulating integral membrane protein sorting and transport and by controlling maturation of the endo-lysosomal network. Retromer dysfunction, which is linked to neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, manifests in complex cellular phenotypes, though the precise nature of this dysfunction, and its relation to neurodegeneration, remain unclear. Here, we perform an integrated multi-omics approach to provide precise insight into the impact of Retromer dysfunction on endo-lysosomal health and homeostasis within a human neuroglioma cell model. We quantify widespread changes to the lysosomal proteome, indicative of broad lysosomal dysfunction and inefficient autophagic lysosome reformation, coupled with a reconfigured cell surface proteome and secretome reflective of increased lysosomal exocytosis. Through this global proteomic approach and parallel transcriptomic analysis, we provide a holistic view of Retromer function in regulating lysosomal homeostasis and emphasise its role in neuroprotection.
PXD039259	37248239	A previously uncharacterized Factor Associated with Metabolism and Energy (FAME/C14orf105/CCDC198/1700011H14Rik) is related to evolutionary adaptation, energy balance, and kidney physiology. 	Identification of FAME (Factor Associated with Metabolism and Energy) interactome	FAME, HEK293, co-IP	In this study we use comparative genomics to uncover a gene with uncharacterized function (1700011H14Rik/C14orf105/CCDC198), which we hereby name FAME (Factor Associated with Metabolism and Energy). We observe that FAME shows an unusually high evolutionary divergence in birds and mammals. Through the comparison of single nucleotide polymorphisms, we identify gene flow of FAME from Neandertals into modern humans. We conduct knockout experiments on animals and observe altered body weight and decreased energy expenditure in Fame knockout animals, corresponding to genome-wide association studies linking FAME with higher body mass index in humans. Gene expression and subcellular localization analyses reveal that FAME is a membrane-bound protein enriched in the kidneys. Although the gene knockout results in structurally normal kidneys, we detect higher albumin in urine and lowered ferritin in the blood. Through experimental validation, we confirm interactions between FAME and ferritin and show co-localization in vesicular and plasma membranes.
PXD040844	37248861	Selective autophagy regulates chloroplast protein import and promotes plant stress tolerance. 	Selective autophagy regulates chloroplast protein import to promote plant stress tolerance	Chloroplast selective autophagy, protein degradation	Chloroplasts are plant organelles responsible for photosynthesis and environmental sensing. Most chloroplast proteins are imported from the cytosol through the translocon at the outer envelope membrane of chloroplasts (TOC). Previous work has shown that TOC components are regulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) to control the chloroplast proteome, which is crucial for the organelle's function and plant development. Here, we demonstrate that the TOC apparatus is also subject to K63-linked polyubiquitination and regulation by selective autophagy, potentially promoting plant stress tolerance. We identify NBR1 as a selective autophagy adaptor targeting TOC components, and mediating their relocation into vacuoles for autophagic degradation. Such selective autophagy is shown to control TOC protein levels and chloroplast protein import and to influence photosynthetic activity as well as tolerance to UV-B irradiation and heat stress in Arabidopsis plants. These findings uncover the vital role of selective autophagy in the proteolytic regulation of specific chloroplast proteins, and how dynamic control of chloroplast protein import is critically important for plants to cope with challenging environments.
PXD041284	37249035	O-GlcNAcylation promotes topoisomerase IIalpha catalytic activity in breast cancer chemoresistance. 	O-GlcNAcylation elevates topoisomerase IIalpha catalytic activity: a role in the chemotherapy resistance of breast cancer	O-GlcNAcylation, TOP2A, site identification	DNA topoisomerase IIalpha (TOP2A) plays a vital role in replication and cell division by catalytically altering DNA topology. It is a prominent target for anticancer drugs, but clinical efficacy is often compromised due to chemoresistance. In this study, we investigate the role of TOP2A O-GlcNAcylation in breast cancer cells and patient tumor tissues. Our results demonstrate that elevated TOP2A, especially its O-GlcNAcylation, promotes breast cancer malignant progression and resistance to adriamycin (Adm). O-GlcNAcylation at Ser1469 enhances TOP2A chromatin DNA binding and catalytic activity, leading to resistance to Adm in breast cancer cells and xenograft models. Mechanistically, O-GlcNAcylation-modulated interactions between TOP2A and cell cycle regulators influence downstream gene expression and contribute to breast cancer drug resistance. These results reveal a previously unrecognized mechanistic role for TOP2A O-GlcNAcylation in breast cancer chemotherapy resistance and provide support for targeting TOP2A O-GlcNAcylation in cancer therapy.
PXD025963	37250100	Novel dicarbonyl metabolic pathway via mitochondrial ES1 possessing glyoxalase III activity. 	Mitochondrial proteome of ES1 KO mouse liver	ES1, liver, mitochondria	Glycation, caused by reactive dicarbonyls, plays a role in various diseases by forming advanced glycation end products. In live cells, reactive dicarbonyls such as glyoxal (GO) and methylglyoxal (MGO) are produced during cell metabolism, and these should be removed consistently. However, the dicarbonyl metabolic system in the mitochondria remains unclear. It has been speculated that the mammalian mitochondrial protein ES1 is a homolog of bacterial elbB possessing glyoxalase III (GLO3) activity. Therefore, in this study, to investigate ES1 functions and GLO3 activity, we generated ES1-knockout (KO) mice and recombinant mouse ES1 protein and investigated the biochemical and histological analyses. In the mitochondrial fraction obtained from ES1-KO mouse brains, the GO metabolism and cytochrome c oxidase activity were significantly lower than those in the mitochondrial fraction obtained from wildtype (WT) mouse brains. However, the morphological features of the mitochondria did not change noticeably in the ES1-KO mouse brains compared with those in the WT mouse brains. The mitochondrial proteome analysis showed that the MGO degradation III pathway and oxidative phosphorylation-related proteins were increased. These should be the response to the reduced GO metabolism caused by ES1 deletion to compensate for the dicarbonyl metabolism and damaged cytochrome c oxidase by elevated GO. Recombinant mouse ES1 protein exhibited catalytic activity of converting GO to glycolic acid. These results indicate that ES1 possesses GLO3 activity and modulates the metabolism of GO in the mitochondria. To our knowledge, this is the first study to show a novel metabolic pathway for reactive dicarbonyls in mitochondria.
PXD039791	37250129	Identification of novel urine proteomic biomarkers for high stamina in high-altitude adaptation. 	Identification of novel urine proteomic biomarkers for high stamina in high-altitude adaptation	Blood routine tests5., High stamina3, High-altitude adaptation4, Proteomic2, Urine biomarkers1	Introduction: We aimed to identify urine biomarkers for screening individuals with adaptability to high-altitude hypoxia with high stamina levels. Although most non-high-altitude natives experience rapid decline in physical ability when ascending to high altitudes, some individuals with high-altitude adaptability continue to maintain high endurance levels. Methods: We divided the study population into two groups: the LC group (low change in endurance from low to high altitude) and HC group (high change in endurance from low to high altitude). We performed blood biochemistry testing for individuals at high altitudes and sea level. We used urine peptidome profiling to compare the HH (high-altitude with high stamina) and HL (high-altitude with low stamina) groups and the LC and HC groups to identify urine biomarkers. Results: Routine blood tests revealed that the concentration of white blood cells, lymphocytes and platelets were significantly higher in the HH group than in the HL group. Urine peptidome profiling showed that the proteins ITIH1, PDCD1LG2, NME1-NME2, and CSPG4 were significantly differentially expressed between the HH and HL groups, which was tested using ELISA. Urine proteomic analysis showed that LRG1, NID1, VASN, GPX3, ACP2, and PRSS8 were urine proteomic biomarkers of high stamina during high-altitude adaptation. Conclusion: This study provides a novel approach for identifying potential biomarkers for screening individuals who can adapt to high altitudes with high stamina.
PXD040130	37250596	Comprehensive Membrane N-Glycoproteomics Using Human Breast Cancer Cell Line Pairs. 	N-glycoproteomics on BC and normal control cell lines	Nglycopeptide, membrane	Aberrant glycosylation of membrane proteins is a hallmark of cancer and a useful molecular marker for the diagnosis of breast cancer (BC). However, the molecular mechanisms by which altered glycosylation affects the malignant transformations associated with BC are poorly understood. Accordingly, we performed comparative membrane N-glycoproteomics using the human BC cell line pair, Hs578T, and its syngeneic normal cell line, Hs578Bst. A total of 359 N-glycoforms derived from 113 proteins were identified in both cell lines, of which 27 were found only in Hs578T cells. Significant changes in N-glycosylation were found in the lysosome-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1), the integrin family, and laminin. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy images revealed the accumulation of lysosomes in the perinuclear space in cancer cells, which could be associated with marked changes in LAMP1 glycosylation, such as a decreased level of polylactosamine chains. Overall, the alterations in glycosylation may be involved in changes in the adhesion and degradation of BC cells.
PXD036040	37250769	DNA damage repair proteins across the Tree of Life. 	Recognition of DNA damage lesions across the tree of life		Genome maintenance is orchestrated by a highly regulated DNA damage response with specific DNA repair pathways. Here, we investigate the phylogenetic diversity in the recognition and repair of three well-established DNA lesions, primarily repaired by base excision repair (BER) and ribonucleotide excision repair (RER): (1) 8-oxoguanine, (2) abasic site, and (3) incorporated ribonucleotide in DNA in 11 species: Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, Halobacterium salinarum, Trypanosoma brucei, Tetrahymena thermophila, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Caenorhabditis elegans, Homo sapiens, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Zea mays. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we identified 337 binding proteins across these species. Of these proteins, 99 were previously characterized to be involved in DNA repair. Through orthology, network, and domain analysis, we linked 44 previously unconnected proteins to DNA repair. Our study presents a resource for future study of the crosstalk and evolutionary conservation of DNA damage repair across all domains of life.
PXD040382	37251643	Progressive mitochondrial dysfunction in cerebellar synaptosomes of cystatin B-deficient mice. 	Proteome analysis of mouse cerebellar synaptosomes	cerebellum, cystatin B, synaptosome	The involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in cystatin B (CSTB) deficiency has been suggested, but its role in the onset of neurodegeneration, myoclonus, and ataxia in the CSTB-deficient mouse model (Cstb(-/-)) is yet unknown. CSTB is an inhibitor of lysosomal and nuclear cysteine cathepsins. In humans, partial loss-of-function mutations cause the progressive myoclonus epilepsy neurodegenerative disorder, EPM1. Here we applied proteome analysis and respirometry on cerebellar synaptosomes from early symptomatic (Cstb(-/-)) mice to identify the molecular mechanisms involved in the onset of CSTB-deficiency associated neural pathogenesis. Proteome analysis showed that CSTB deficiency is associated with differential expression of mitochondrial and synaptic proteins, and respirometry revealed a progressive impairment in mitochondrial function coinciding with the onset of myoclonus and neurodegeneration in (Cstb(-/-)) mice. This mitochondrial dysfunction was not associated with alterations in mitochondrial DNA copy number or membrane ultrastructure. Collectively, our results show that CSTB deficiency generates a defect in synaptic mitochondrial bioenergetics that coincides with the onset and progression of the clinical phenotypes, and thus is likely a contributor to the pathogenesis of EPM1.
PXD041456	37252207	Using a multi-omic approach to investigate the mechanism of 12-bis-THA activity against Burkholderia thailandensis. 	Burkholderia thailandensis stress response to 12-bis-THA	12-bis-THA, ATP synthase, Burkholderia, mechanisn-of-action, respiration	Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of the tropical disease, melioidosis. It is intrinsically resistant to many antimicrobials and treatment requires an onerous regimen of intravenous and orally administered drugs. Relapse of disease and high rates of mortality following treatment are common, demonstrating the need for new anti-Burkholderia agents. The cationic bola-amphiphile, 12,12'-(dodecane-1,12-diyl) bis (9-amino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroacridinium), referred to as 12-bis-THA, is a molecule with the potential to treat Burkholderia infections. 12-bis-THA spontaneously forms cationic nanoparticles that bind anionic phospholipids in the prokaryotic membrane and are readily internalized. In this study, we examine the antimicrobial activity of 12-bis-THA against strains of Burkholderia thailandensis. As B. pseudomallei produces a polysaccharide capsule we first examined if this extra barrier influenced the activity of 12-bis-THA which is known to act on the bacterial envelope. Therefore two strains of B. thailandensis were selected for further testing, strain E264 which does not produce a capsule and strain E555 which does produce a capsule that is chemically similar to that found in B. pseudomallei. In this study no difference in the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) was observed when capsulated (E555) and unencapsulated (E264) strains of B. thailandensis were compared, however time-kill analysis showed that the unencapsulated strain was more susceptible to 12-bis-THA. The presence of the capsule did not affect the membrane permeation of 12-bis-THA at MIC concentrations. Proteomic and metabolomic analyses showed that 12-bis-THA causes a shift in central metabolism away from glycolysis and glyoxylate cycle, and suppressed the production of the F1 domain of ATP synthase. In summary, we provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underpinning the activity of 12-bis-THA against B. thailandensis and discuss its potential for further development.
PXD039315	37252352	Conformational Dynamics of the Activated GLP-1 Receptor-Gs Complex Revealed by Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry and Integrative Structure Modeling. 	Conformational dynamics of the activated GLP-1 receptor-Gs complex revealed by cross-linking mass spectrometry and integrative modeling	CLMS, complex, structural dynamics	Despite advances in characterizing the structures and functions of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), our understanding of GPCR activation and signaling is still limited by the lack of information on conformational dynamics. It is particularly challenging to study the dynamics of GPCR complexes with their signaling partners because of their transient nature and low stability. Here, by combining cross-linking mass spectrometry (CLMS) with integrative structure modeling, we map the conformational ensemble of an activated GPCR-G protein complex at near-atomic resolution. The integrative structures describe heterogeneous conformations for a high number of potential alternative active states of the GLP-1 receptor-Gs complex. These structures show marked differences from the previously determined cryo-EM structure, especially at the receptor-Gs interface and in the interior of the Gs heterotrimer. Alanine-scanning mutagenesis coupled with pharmacological assays validates the functional significance of 24 interface residue contacts only observed in the integrative structures, yet absent in the cryo-EM structure. Through the integration of spatial connectivity data from CLMS with structure modeling, our study provides a new approach that is generalizable to characterizing the conformational dynamics of GPCR signaling complexes.
PXD029834	37252964	Fibrillin-1 regulates endothelial sprouting during angiogenesis. 	Proteomic analysis of primary human microvascular endothelial cells (HMVECs) stimulated for 24h with either 50 g/mL recombinant Fibrillin-1 C-terminal fragment or 25ng/ml VEGF-A compared to unstimulated cells.	Endothelial cell, angiogenesis, quantitative proteome	Fibrillin-1 is an extracellular matrix protein that assembles into microfibrils which provide critical functions in large blood vessels and other tissues. Mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene are associated with cardiovascular, ocular, and skeletal abnormalities in Marfan syndrome. Here, we reveal that fibrillin-1 is critical for angiogenesis which is compromised by a typical Marfan mutation. In the mouse retina vascularization model, fibrillin-1 is present in the extracellular matrix at the angiogenic front where it colocalizes with microfibril-associated glycoprotein-1, MAGP1. In Fbn1(C1041G/+) mice, a model of Marfan syndrome, MAGP1 deposition is reduced, endothelial sprouting is decreased, and tip cell identity is impaired. Cell culture experiments confirmed that fibrillin-1 deficiency alters vascular endothelial growth factor-A/Notch and Smad signaling which regulate the acquisition of endothelial tip cell/stalk cell phenotypes, and we showed that modulation of MAGP1 expression impacts these pathways. Supplying the growing vasculature of Fbn1(C1041G/+) mice with a recombinant C-terminal fragment of fibrillin-1 corrects all defects. Mass spectrometry analyses showed that the fibrillin-1 fragment alters the expression of various proteins including ADAMTS1, a tip cell metalloprotease and matrix-modifying enzyme. Our data establish that fibrillin-1 is a dynamic signaling platform in the regulation of cell specification and matrix remodeling at the angiogenic front and that mutant fibrillin-1-induced defects can be rescued pharmacologically using a C-terminal fragment of the protein. These findings, identify fibrillin-1, MAGP1, and ADAMTS1 in the regulation of endothelial sprouting, and contribute to our understanding of how angiogenesis is regulated. This knowledge may have critical implications for people with Marfan syndrome.
PXD041732	37253089	The ubiquitin ligase Uhrf2 is a master regulator of cholesterol biosynthesis and is essential for liver regeneration. 	BioID screen for Uhrf2 interactors in AML12 cells	AML12 cells, BioID, Q-Exactive HF	Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are key regulators of the remarkable regenerative capacity of the liver. Mice lacking FGF receptors 1 and 2 (Fgfr1 and Fgfr2) in hepatocytes are hypersensitive to cytotoxic injury during liver regeneration. Using these mice as a model for impaired liver regeneration, we identified a critical role for the ubiquitin ligase Uhrf2 in protecting hepatocytes from bile acid accumulation during liver regeneration. During regeneration after partial hepatectomy, Uhrf2 expression increased in an FGFR-dependent manner, and Uhrf2 was more abundant in the nuclei of liver cells in control mice compared with FGFR-deficient mice. Hepatocyte-specific Uhrf2 knockout or nanoparticle-mediated Uhrf2 knockdown caused extensive liver necrosis and impaired hepatocyte proliferation after partial hepatectomy, resulting in liver failure. In cultured hepatocytes, Uhrf2 interacted with several chromatin remodeling proteins and suppressed the expression of cholesterol biosynthesis genes. In vivo, the loss of Uhrf2 resulted in cholesterol and bile acid accumulation in the liver during regeneration. Treatment with a bile acid scavenger rescued the necrotic phenotype, hepatocyte proliferation, and the regenerative capacity of the liver in Uhrf2-deficient mice subjected to partial hepatectomy. Our results identify Uhrf2 as a key target of FGF signaling in hepatocytes and its essential function in liver regeneration and highlight the importance of epigenetic metabolic regulation in this process.
PXD041996	37253723	A cryo-EM structure of KTF1-bound polymerase V transcription elongation complex. 	Affinity purified epitope-taggedPol V LC-MSMS	Pol V, T87	De novo DNA methylation in plants relies on transcription of RNA polymerase V (Pol V) along with KTF1, which produce long non-coding RNAs for recruitment and assembly of the DNA methylation machinery. Here, we report a cryo-EM structure of the Pol V transcription elongation complex bound to KTF1. The structure reveals the conformation of the structural motifs in the active site of Pol V that accounts for its inferior RNA-extension ability. The structure also reveals structural features of Pol V that prevent it from interacting with the transcription factors of Pol II and Pol IV. The KOW5 domain of KTF1 binds near the RNA exit channel of Pol V providing a scaffold for the proposed recruitment of Argonaute proteins to initiate the assembly of the DNA methylation machinery. The structure provides insight into the Pol V transcription elongation process and the role of KTF1 during Pol V transcription-coupled DNA methylation.
PXD040899	37253728	The mechanisms to dispose of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum of adipocytes. 	The mechanism to dispose of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum of adipocytes	BiP, CERFs, ER-phagy, SEL1L-HRD1 ERAD, autophagy, lipoprotein lipase, phase separation, protein aggregation, soluble-to-insoluble phase transition, tryptophan loop	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation (ERAD) and ER-phagy are two principal degradative mechanisms for ER proteins and aggregates, respectively; however, the crosstalk between these two pathways under physiological settings remains unexplored. Using adipocytes as a model system, here we report that SEL1L-HRD1 protein complex of ERAD degrades misfolded ER proteins and limits ER-phagy and that, only when SEL1L-HRD1 ERAD is impaired, the ER becomes fragmented and cleared by ER-phagy. When both are compromised, ER fragments containing misfolded proteins spatially coalesce into a distinct architecture termed Coalescence of ER Fragments (CERFs), consisted of lipoprotein lipase (LPL, a key lipolytic enzyme and an endogenous SEL1L-HRD1 substrate) and certain ER chaperones. CERFs enlarge and become increasingly insoluble with age. Finally, we reconstitute the CERFs through LPL and BiP phase separation in vitro, a process influenced by both redox environment and C-terminal tryptophan loop of LPL. Hence, our findings demonstrate a sequence of events centered around SEL1L-HRD1 ERAD to dispose of misfolded proteins in the ER of adipocytes, highlighting the profound cellular adaptability to misfolded proteins in the ER in vivo.
PXD036521	37253897	Biofilm-forming strains of P. aeruginosa and S. aureus isolated from cystic fibrosis patients differently affect inflammatory phenotype of macrophages. 	Mouse peritoneal macrophages SWATH-MS.	SWATH-MS, Spectronaut, macrophages	OBJECTIVE: Lung cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by chronic infections and hyperinflammatory response of neutrophils and macrophages. P. aeruginosa (PA) and S. aureus (MSSA, MRSA) are major pathogens of advanced CF. The main goal of this study was to compare the inflammatory phenotype of murine C57BL/6 macrophages exposed to PA57 with that exposed to MSSA60, both strains isolated from the same patient with severe CF. In the present study, we used C57BL/6 mice sensitive to lung infection with P. aeruginosa. METHODS: We measured the release of cytokines and the expression of phenotypic markers of murine neutrophils and macrophages exposed to bacterial cells and biofilm components (i.e., EPS) of the selected bacteria. In addition, a quantitative proteomic approach was used for the characterization of proteome-wide changes in macrophages. RESULTS: Neutrophils stimulated with PA57 and MSSA60 strains produced hyperinflammatory pattern of cytokines. The pro-inflammatory impact of PA57 was significantly higher than that of MSSA60 (IL-6/IL-10 ratio: PA57 = 9.3 vs. MSSA60 = 1.7). Macrophages produced significantly lower amount of cytokines, but showed classical pattern of M1 markers (iNOS-High; arginase-1 and mannose receptor MRC1-Low). Importantly, as evidenced by proteomic analysis, PA57 and PA57-EPS were stronger inducers of M1 macrophage polarization than the MSSA60 counterparts. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that strong biofilm P. aeruginosa strains, CF isolates, are dominant inducers of M1 macrophages, termed biofilm-associated macrophages (BAMs). We suggest that repolarization of detrimental BAMs might be a new therapeutic strategy to ameliorate the airway damage in CF.
PXD040773	37253964	Identification and localization of polar tube proteins in the extruded polar tube of the microsporidian Anncaliia algerae. 	Identification and PTPs in Anncaliia algerae	Anncaliia algerae, Invasion, Microsporidia, PTP, Polar tube	Microsporidia are obligate intracellular parasites able to infect a wide range of hosts from invertebrates to vertebrates. The success of their invasion process is based on an original organelle, the polar tube, which is suddenly extruded from the spore to inoculate the sporoplasm into the host cytoplasm. The polar tube is mainly composed of proteins named polar tube proteins (PTPs). A comparative analysis allowed us to identify genes coding for 5 PTPs (PTP1 to PTP5) in the genome of the microsporidian Anncaliia algerae. While PTP1 and PTP2 are found on the whole polar tube, PTP3 is present in a large part of the extruded polar tube except at its end-terminal part. On the contrary, PTP4 is specifically detected at the end-terminal part of the polar tube. To complete PTPs repertoire, sequential sporal protein extractions were done with high concentration of reducing agents. In addition, a method to purify polar tubes was developed. Mass spectrometry analysis conducted on both samples led to the identification of a PTP3-like protein (PTP3b), and a new PTP (PTP7) only found at the extremity of the polar tube. The specific localization of PTPs asks the question of their roles in cell invasion processes used by A. algerae.
PXD041549	37255666	ADAR1-mediated RNA editing promotes B cell lymphomagenesis. 	ADAR1-mediated RNA editing promotes B cell lymphomagenesis.	ADAR1, DLBCL, MAVS, RCK8	Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is one of the most common types of aggressive lymphoid malignancies. Here, we explore the contribution of RNA editing to DLBCL pathogenesis. We observed that DNA mutations and RNA editing events are often mutually exclusive, suggesting that tumors can modulate pathway outcomes by altering sequences at either the genomic or the transcriptomic level. RNA editing targets transcripts within known disease-driving pathways such as apoptosis, p53 and NF-kappaB signaling, as well as the RIG-I-like pathway. In this context, we show that ADAR1-mediated editing within MAVS transcript positively correlates with MAVS protein expression levels, associating with increased interferon/NF-kappaB signaling and T cell exhaustion. Finally, using targeted RNA base editing tools to restore editing within MAVS 3'UTR in ADAR1-deficient cells, we demonstrate that editing is likely to be causal to an increase in downstream signaling in the absence of activation by canonical nucleic acid receptor sensing.
PXD040560	37256175	LC-MS based urine untargeted metabolomic analyses to identify and subdivide urothelial cancer. 	LC-MS based urine untargeted metabolomic analyses to identify and subdivide urothelial cancer	Biomarkers, Bladder cancer, LC-HRMS, Upper tract urothelial cancer,Liquid biopsy, Urine metabolomics	Introduction: Urine metabolomics has been a promising technique in the liquid biopsy of urothelial cancer (UC). The comparison of upper tract urothelial cancer (UTUC), lower tract urothelial cancer (BCa), and healthy controls (HCs) need to be performed to find related biomarkers. Methods: In our investigation, urine samples from 35 UTUCs, 44 BCas, and 53 gender- and age-matched HCs were analyzed using liquid chromatography-high resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS). In different groups, the differential metabolites and the disturbed metabolism pathways were explored. Transcriptomics and urine metabolomics are combined to identify the probably disturbed gene in BCa. Results: With an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.815, the panel consisting of prostaglandin I2, 5-methyldeoxycytidine, 2,6-dimethylheptanoyl carnitine, and deoxyinosine was able to discriminate UC from HCs. With an AUC of 0.845, the validation group also demonstrated strong predictive ability. UTUC and BCa without hematuria could be distinguished using the panel of 5'-methylthioadenosine, L-beta-aspartyl-L-serine, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, and N'-formylkynurenine (AUC=0.858). The metabolite panel comprising aspartyl-methionine, 7-methylinosine, and alpha-CEHC glucuronide could discriminate UTUC from BCa with hematuria with an AUC of 0.83. Fatty acid biosynthesis, purine metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, pentose and glucuronate interconversions, and arachidonic acid metabolism were dysregulated when comparing UC with HCs. PTGIS and BCHE, the genes related to the metabolism of prostaglandin I2 and myristic acid respectively, were significantly associated with the survival of BCa. Discussion: Not only could LC-HRMS urine metabolomic investigations distinguish UC from HCs, but they could also identify UTUC from BCa. Additionally, urine metabolomics combined with transcriptomics can find out the potential aberrant genes in the metabolism.
PXD033165	37256658	An rRNA fragment in extracellular vesicles secreted by human airway epithelial cells increases the fluoroquinolone sensitivity of P. aeruginosa. 	An rRNA fragment in extracellular vesicles secreted by human airway epithelial cells increases the fluoroquinolone sensitivity of P. aeruginosa	EVs, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, airway cells, host-pathogen communication	Lung infections caused by antibiotic-resistant strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa are difficult to eradicate in immunocompromised hosts such as those with cystic fibrosis. We previously demonstrated that extracellular vesicles (EVs) secreted by primary human airway epithelial cells (AECs) deliver microRNA let-7b-5p to P. aeruginosa to suppress biofilm formation and increase sensitivity to beta-lactam antibiotics. In this study, we show that EVs secreted by AECs transfer multiple distinct short RNA fragments to P. aeruginosa that are predicted to target the three subunits of the fluoroquinolone efflux pump MexHI-OpmD, thus increasing antibiotic sensitivity. Exposure of P. aeruginosa to EVs resulted in a significant reduction in the protein levels of MexH (-48%), MexI (-50%), and OpmD (-35%). Moreover, EVs reduced planktonic growth of P. aeruginosa in the presence of the fluoroquinolone antibiotic ciprofloxacin by 20%. A mexGHI-opmD deletion mutant of P. aeruginosa phenocopied this increased sensitivity to ciprofloxacin. Finally, we found that a fragment of an 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) external transcribed spacer that was transferred to P. aeruginosa by EVs reduced planktonic growth of P. aeruginosa in the presence of ciprofloxacin, reduced the minimum inhibitory concentration of P. aeruginosa for ciprofloxacin by over 50%, and significantly reduced protein levels of both MexH and OpmD. In conclusion, an rRNA fragment secreted by AECs in EVs that targets the fluoroquinolone efflux pump MexHI-OpmD downregulated these proteins and increased the ciprofloxacin sensitivity of P. aeruginosa. A combination of rRNA fragments and ciprofloxacin packaged in nanoparticles or EVs may benefit patients with ciprofloxacin-resistant P. aeruginosa infections.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Human RNA fragments transported in extracellular vesicles interfere with Pseudomonas aeruginosa drug efflux pumps. A combination of rRNA fragments and ciprofloxacin packaged in nanoparticles or EVs may benefit patients with antibiotic-resistant P. aeruginosa infections.
PXD037870	37256709	Evaluation of DDA Library-Free Strategies for Phosphoproteomics and Ubiquitinomics Data-Independent Acquisition Data. 	Evaluation of library-free strategies for phosphoproteomics and ubiquitinomics data-independent acquisition data	Data-Independent Acquisition, Phosphoproteomics, Ubiquitinomics	Phosphoproteomics and ubiquitinomics data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry (MS) data is typically analyzed by using a data-dependent acquisition (DDA) spectral library. The performance of various library-free strategies for analyzing phosphoproteomics and ubiquitinomics DIA MS data has not been evaluated. In this study, we systematically compare four commonly used DDA library-free approaches including Spectronaut's directDIA, DIA-Umpire, DIA-MSFragger, and in silico-predicted library for analysis of phosphoproteomics SWATH, DIA, and diaPASEF data as well as ubiquitinomics diaPASEF data. Spectronaut's directDIA shows the highest sensitivity for phosphopeptide detection not only in synthetic phosphopeptide samples but also in phosphoproteomics SWATH-MS and DIA data from real biological samples, when compared to the other three library-free strategies. For phosphoproteomics diaPASEF data, Spectronaut's directDIA and the in silico-predicted library based on DIA-NN identify almost the same number of phosphopeptides as a project-specific DDA spectral library. However, only about 30% of the total phosphopeptides are commonly identified, suggesting that the library-free strategies for phospho-diaPASEF data need further improvement in terms of sensitivity. For ubiquitinomics diaPASEF data, the in silico-predicted library performs the best among the four workflows and detects ~50% more K-GG peptides than a project-specific DDA spectral library. Our results demonstrate that Spectronaut's directDIA is suitable for the analysis of phosphoproteomics SWATH-MS and DIA MS data, while the in silico-predicted library based on DIA-NN shows substantial advantages for ubiquitinomics diaPASEF MS data.
PXD041182	37256937	PSMC3 proteasome subunit variants are associated with neurodevelopmental delay and type I interferon production. 	Impact of de novo variants in the PSMC3 proteasome AAA-ATPase subunit gene on the protein pattern of patient-derived primary T-cells in comparison to their wild-type counterparts.	PSMC3 variants, primary T-cells, proteasome, protein homeostasis	A critical step in preserving protein homeostasis is the recognition, binding, unfolding, and translocation of protein substrates by six AAA-ATPase proteasome subunits (ATPase-associated with various cellular activities) termed PSMC1-6, which are required for degradation of proteins by 26S proteasomes. Here, we identified 15 de novo missense variants in the PSMC3 gene encoding the AAA-ATPase proteasome subunit PSMC3/Rpt5 in 23 unrelated heterozygous patients with an autosomal dominant form of neurodevelopmental delay and intellectual disability. Expression of PSMC3 variants in mouse neuronal cultures led to altered dendrite development, and deletion of the PSMC3 fly ortholog Rpt5 impaired reversal learning capabilities in fruit flies. Structural modeling as well as proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of T cells derived from patients with PSMC3 variants implicated the PSMC3 variants in proteasome dysfunction through disruption of substrate translocation, induction of proteotoxic stress, and alterations in proteins controlling developmental and innate immune programs. The proteostatic perturbations in T cells from patients with PSMC3 variants correlated with a dysregulation in type I interferon (IFN) signaling in these T cells, which could be blocked by inhibition of the intracellular stress sensor protein kinase R (PKR). These results suggest that proteotoxic stress activated PKR in patient-derived T cells, resulting in a type I IFN response. The potential relationship among proteosome dysfunction, type I IFN production, and neurodevelopment suggests new directions in our understanding of pathogenesis in some neurodevelopmental disorders.
PXD030011	37257316	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ubiquitination profiling reveals specific prognostic and theranostic markers. 	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) ubiquitination profiling reveals specific prognostic and theranostic markers.	PDAC, Ubiquitinome, diGLy peptide profiling, prognostic markers, theranostic markers.	BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has been widely studied at multiomics level. However, little is known about its specific ubiquitination, a major post-translational modification (PTM). As PTMs regulate the final function of any gene, we decided to establish the ubiquitination profiles of 60 PDAC. METHODS: We used specific proteomic tools to establish the ubiquitin dependent proteome (ubiquitinome) of frozen PDXs (Patients' derived xenographs). Then, we performed bioinformatics analysis to identify the possible associations of these ubiquitination profiles with tumour phenotype, patient survival and resistance to chemotherapies. Finally, we used proximity ligation assays (PLA) to detect and quantify the ubiquitination level of one identified marker. FINDINGS: We identified 38 ubiquitination site profiles correlating with the transcriptomic phenotype of tumours and four had notable prognostic capabilities. Seventeen ubiquitination profiles displayed potential theranostic marker for gemcitabine, seven for 5-FU, six for oxaliplatin and thirteen for irinotecan. Using PLA, we confirmed the use of one ubiquitination profile as a drug-response marker, directly on paraffin embedded tissues, supporting the possible application of these biomarkers in the clinical setting. INTERPRETATION: These findings bring new and important insights on the relationship between ubiquitination levels of proteins and different molecular and clinical features of PDAC patients. Markers identified in this study could have a potential application in clinical settings to help to predict response to chemotherapies thereby allowing the personalization of treatments. FUNDING: Fondation ARC (PJA 20181208270 and PGA 12021010002840_3562); INCa; Canceropole PACA; DGOS; Amidex Foundation; Fondation de France; and INSERM.
PXD042376	37257342	Proteomic analysis of ITPR2 as a new therapeutic target for curcumin protection against AFB1-induced pyroptosis. 	Proteomic analysis of ITPR2 as a new therapeutic target for curcumin protection against AFB1-induced pyroptosis	AFB1, curcumin, liver injury, pyroptosis	Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is extremely carcinogenic and can cause liver cancer in humans and animals with continued ingestion. As a natural compound, curcumin (Cur) exhibits excellent anti-inflammatory, and anti-cancer properties with few side effects. In this study, a total of 60 male mice (6-week-olds, 15 per group). After one week of acclimatization feeding, the mice were divided into control group (Con), AFB1 group, curcumin group (Cur), and AF+Cur group. The mice were gavaged with curcumin (Cur, 100 mg/kg) and/or AFB1 (0.75 mg/kg). To identify a new therapeutic target for AFB1-induced pyroptosis, we performed proteomic profiling for curcumin alleviating liver injury caused by AFB1 to further validate the targets through volcano plot analysis, Venn analysis, heatmap analysis, correlation, cluster analysis, GO and KEGG enrichment. AFB1 exposure resulted in the loss of hepatocyte membrane, swelling of the endoplasmic reticulum, and a significant increase in transaminase (ALT and AST) contents, while curcumin greatly improved these changes. We found that differentially expressed proteins are enriched in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and identified ITPR2 as a target of curcumin that alleviates AFB1-induced liver injury by proteomics. Furthermore, ITPR2 expression was detected by immunofluorescence, and qRT-PCR for mRNA expression of genes downstream of ITPR2 (calpain1, calpain2, caspase-12, caspase-3). ITPR2-activated endoplasmic reticulum stress-related proteins (calpain1, calpaini2, bcl-2, BAX, cl-caspase-12, cl-caspase-3), apoptosis (PARP) and pyroptosis (DFNA5) related proteins were examined by western blotting. The analysis showed that it effectively prevents AFB1-induced pyroptosis by lowering endoplasmic reticulum stress via interfering with ITPR2 and its downstream proteins (calpain1, calpain2, bcl-2, Bax) and inhibiting caspase-12/caspase-3 pathway. Conclusively, this study applied proteomic profiling to elucidate ITPR2 as a new target, which might give a new perspective on the mechanism of curcumin alleviating AFB1-induced pyroptosis.
PXD045174	37257450	Multi-omics blood atlas reveals unique features of immune and platelet responses to SARS-CoV-2 Omicron breakthrough infection. 	Dissection of Blood Ecosystem in SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Patients	COVID-19 omicron, plasma and platelet	Although host responses to the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 strain are well described, those to the new Omicron variants are less resolved. We profiled the clinical phenomes, transcriptomes, proteomes, metabolomes, and immune repertoires of >1,000 blood cell or plasma specimens from SARS-CoV-2 Omicron patients. Using in-depth integrated multi-omics, we dissected the host response dynamics during multiple disease phases to reveal the molecular and cellular landscapes in the blood. Specifically, we detected enhanced interferon-mediated antiviral signatures of platelets in Omicron-infected patients, and platelets preferentially formed widespread aggregates with leukocytes to modulate immune cell functions. In addition, patients who were re-tested positive for viral RNA showed marked reductions in B cell receptor clones, antibody generation, and neutralizing capacity against Omicron. Finally, we developed a machine learning model that accurately predicted the probability of re-positivity in Omicron patients. Our study may inspire a paradigm shift in studying systemic diseases and emerging public health concerns.
PXD041622	37257918	Germ cell-specific eIF4E1b regulates maternal mRNA translation to ensure zygotic genome activation. 	Identification of co-factors of eIF4E1b protein in mouse ovary.	Initiation facto, affinity, eIF-4E1b, ovary	Translation of maternal mRNAs is detected before transcription of zygotic genes and is essential for mammalian embryo development. How certain maternal mRNAs are selected for translation instead of degradation and how this burst of translation affects zygotic genome activation remain unknown. Using gene-edited mice, we document that the oocyte-specific eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E family member 1b (eIF4E1b) is the regulator of maternal mRNA expression that ensures subsequent reprogramming of the zygotic genome. In oocytes, eIF4E1b binds to transcripts encoding translation machinery proteins, chromatin remodelers, and reprogramming factors to promote their translation in zygotes and protect them from degradation. The protein products are thought to establish an open chromatin landscape in one-cell zygotes to enable transcription of genes required for cleavage stage development. Our results define a program for rapid resetting of the zygotic epigenome that is regulated by maternal mRNA expression and provide new insights into the mammalian maternal-to-zygotic transition.
PXD025953	37258593	Proteomics and secreted lipidomics of mouse-derived bone marrow cells exposed to a lethal level of ionizing radiation. 	Proteomics analysis of mouse-derived bone marrow cells exposed to a lethal level of ionizing radiation	bone marrow stromal cells, radiation	High doses of ionizing radiation (IR) exposure can lead to the development of severe acute radiation syndrome with bone marrow failure. Defining risk factors that predict adverse events is a critical mission to guide patient selection for personalized treatment protocols. Since non-hematopoietic stem cells act as feeder cells in the niche and their secreted lipids may regulate hematopoietic stem cells, we focused on non-hematopoietic stem cells and aimed to discover biomarkers that can assess radiation exposure from their secreted lipids. Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) and osteoblast differentiation-inducing cells (ODICs) isolated from mouse femurs were exposed to lethal doses of IR and the proteomic differences between BMSC and ODIC cell layers were compared. We observed an increased Nrf2-mediated oxidative stress response and IL6 expression in ODICs and decreased expression of mitochondrial proteins in BMSCs. To elucidate secreted factors, lipidomics of the cultures were profiled; the relevant lipids distinguishing IR-exposed and control groups of BMSC were acyl-acyl phosphatidylcholine (PC aa C34:1 and PC aa C34:4), lysophosphatidylcholine (lyso-PC a C18:0 and lyso PC a C17:0) and sphingomyelin (SM C20:2). These analyses suggest that certain lipids are candidate markers for the toxic effects of IR.
PXD043116	37258779	High-throughput proteomics profiling-derived signature associated with chemotherapy response and survival for stage II/III colorectal cancer. 	proteomic signature to predict ACT  in CRC	CRC, proteomic signature	Adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) is usually used to reduce the risk of disease relapse and improve survival for stage II/III colorectal cancer (CRC). However, only a subset of patients could benefit from ACT. Thus, there is an urgent need to identify improved biomarkers to predict survival and stratify patients to refine the selection of ACT. We used high-throughput proteomics to analyze tumor and adjacent normal tissues of stage II/III CRC patients with /without relapse to identify potential markers for predicting prognosis and benefit from ACT. The machine learning approach was applied to identify relapse-specific markers. Then the artificial intelligence (AI)-assisted multiplex IHC was performed to validate the prognostic value of the relapse-specific markers and construct a proteomic-derived classifier for stage II/III CRC using 3 markers, including FHL3, GGA1, TGFBI. The proteomics profiling-derived signature for stage II/III CRC (PS) not only shows good accuracy to classify patients into high and low risk of relapse and mortality in all three cohorts, but also works independently of clinicopathologic features. ACT was associated with improved disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in stage II (pN0) patients with high PS and pN2 patients with high PS. This study demonstrated the clinical significance of proteomic features, which serve as a valuable source for potential biomarkers. The PS classifier provides prognostic value for identifying patients at high risk of relapse and mortality and optimizes individualized treatment strategy by detecting patients who may benefit from ACT for survival.
PXD040496	37260183	Deubiquitinase USP9X loss sensitizes renal cancer cells to mTOR inhibition. 	Deubiquitinase USP9X loss sensitizes renal cancer cells to mTOR inhibition	USP9x, mTOR, renal cancer, ubiquitinase	Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a central regulator of mammalian metabolism and physiology. Aberrant hyperactivation of the mTOR pathway promotes tumor growth and metastasis, and can also promote tumor resistance to chemotherapy and cancer drugs; this makes mTOR an attractive cancer therapeutic target. mTOR inhibitors have been approved to treat cancer; however, the mechanisms underlying drug sensitivity remain poorly understood. Here, whole exome sequencing of three chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (chRCC) patients with exceptional mTOR inhibitor sensitivity revealed that all three patients shared somatic mutations in the deubiquitinase gene USP9X. The clonal characteristics of the mutations, which were amassed by studying multiple patients' primary and metastatic samples from various years, together with the low USP9X mutation rate in unselected chRCC series, reinforced a causal link between USP9X and mTOR inhibitor sensitivity. Rapamycin treatment of USP9X-depleted HeLa and renal cancer 786-O cells, along with the pharmacological inhibition of USP9X, confirmed that this protein plays a role in patients' sensitivity to mTOR inhibitors. USP9X was not found to exert a direct effect on mTORC1, but subsequent ubiquitylome analyses identified p62 as a direct USP9X target. Increased p62 ubiquitination and the augmented rapamycin effect upon bortezomib treatment, together with the results of p62 and LC3 immunofluorescence assays, suggested that dysregulated autophagy in USP9X-depleted cells can have a synergistic effect with mTOR inhibitors. In summary, we show that USP9X constitutes a potential novel marker of sensitivity to mTOR inhibitors in chRCC patients, and represents a clinical strategy for increasing the sensitivity to these drugs.
PXD041635	37261953	Btbd11 supports cell-type-specific synaptic function. 	Mouse psd95 coimmunoprecipitation from excitatory or inhibitory neurons and mass spectrometry	co-IP, psd95, synapse	Synapses in the brain exhibit cell-type-specific differences in basal synaptic transmission and plasticity. Here, we evaluated cell-type-specific specializations in the composition of glutamatergic synapses, identifying Btbd11 as an inhibitory interneuron-specific, synapse-enriched protein. Btbd11 is highly conserved across species and binds to core postsynaptic proteins, including Psd-95. Intriguingly, we show that Btbd11 can undergo liquid-liquid phase separation when expressed with Psd-95, supporting the idea that the glutamatergic postsynaptic density in synapses in inhibitory interneurons exists in a phase-separated state. Knockout of Btbd11 decreased glutamatergic signaling onto parvalbumin-positive interneurons. Further, both in vitro and in vivo, Btbd11 knockout disrupts network activity. At the behavioral level, Btbd11 knockout from interneurons alters exploratory behavior, measures of anxiety, and sensitizes mice to pharmacologically induced hyperactivity following NMDA receptor antagonist challenge. Our findings identify a cell-type-specific mechanism that supports glutamatergic synapse function in inhibitory interneurons-with implications for circuit function and animal behavior.
PXD038337	37263996	Rio1 downregulates centromeric RNA levels to promote the timely assembly of structurally fit kinetochores. 	Rio1 downregulates centromeric RNA levels to promote the timely assembly of structurally fit kinetochores	Rat1, Rio1, RioK1, centromere, kinetochore, per centromere	Kinetochores assemble on centromeres via histone H3 variant CENP-A and low levels of centromere transcripts (cenRNAs). The latter are ensured by the downregulation of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) activity, and cenRNA turnover by the nuclear exosome. Using S. cerevisiae, we now add protein kinase Rio1 to this scheme. Yeast cenRNAs are produced either as short (median lengths of 231 nt) or long (4458 nt) transcripts, in a 1:1 ratio. Rio1 limits their production by reducing RNAPII accessibility and promotes cenRNA degradation by the 5'-3'exoribonuclease Rat1. Rio1 similarly curtails the concentrations of noncoding pericenRNAs. These exist as short transcripts (225 nt) at levels that are minimally two orders of magnitude higher than the cenRNAs. In yeast depleted of Rio1, cen- and pericenRNAs accumulate, CEN nucleosomes and kinetochores misform, causing chromosome instability. The latter phenotypes are also observed with human cells lacking orthologue RioK1, suggesting that CEN regulation by Rio1/RioK1 is evolutionary conserved.
PXD036836	37264422	Quantification of host proteomic responses to genotype 4 hepatitis E virus replication facilitated by pregnancy serum. 	Quantification of host proteomic responses to hepatitis E virus replication facilitated by pregnancy serum	hepatitis E virus, iTRAQ, pregnancy, proteomic analysis, virus-host interactions	BACKGROUND: Hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection is a common cause of acute hepatitis worldwide and causes approximately 30% case fatality rate among pregnant women. Pregnancy serum (PS), which contains a high concentration of estradiol, facilitates HEV replication in vitro through the suppression of the PI3K-AKT-mTOR and cAMPK-PKA-CREB signaling pathways. However, the proteomics of the complex host responses to HEV infection, especially how PS facilitates viral replication, remains unclear. METHODS: In this study, the differences in the proteomics of HEV-infected HepG2 cells supplemented with fetal bovine serum (FBS) from those of HEV-infected HepG2 cells supplemented with serum from women in their third trimester of pregnancy were quantified by using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification technology. RESULTS: A total of 1511 proteins were identified, among which 548 were defined as differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). HEV-infected cells supplemented with PS exhibited the most significant changes at the protein level. A total of 328 DEPs, including 66 up-regulated and 262 down-regulated proteins, were identified in HEV-infected cells supplemented with FBS, whereas 264 DEPs, including 201 up-regulated and 63 down-regulated proteins, were found in HEV-infected cells supplemented with PS. Subsequently, Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses revealed that in HEV-infected cells, PS supplementation adjusted more host genes and signaling pathways than FBS supplementation. The DEPs involved in virus-host interaction participated in complex interactions, especially a large number of immune-related protein emerged in HEV-infected cells supplemented with PS. Three significant or interesting proteins, including filamin-A, thioredoxin, and cytochrome c, in HEV-infected cells were functionally verified. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study provide new and comprehensive insight for exploring virus-host interactions and will benefit future studies on the pathogenesis of HEV in pregnant women.
PXD039939	37264685	Structural basis of ubiquitin-independent PP1 complex disassembly by p97. 	Identification of Cross-linking partners of BpA modified p97 by photo cross-linking MS	AAA protease, BpA crosslinking, p97	The AAA+-ATPase p97 (also called VCP or Cdc48) unfolds proteins and disassembles protein complexes in numerous cellular processes, but how substrate complexes are loaded onto p97 and disassembled is unclear. Here, we present cryo-EM structures of p97 in the process of disassembling a protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) complex by extracting an inhibitory subunit from PP1. We show that PP1 and its partners SDS22 and inhibitor-3 (I3) are loaded tightly onto p97, surprisingly via a direct contact of SDS22 with the p97 N-domain. Loading is assisted by the p37 adapter that bridges two adjacent p97 N-domains underneath the substrate complex. A stretch of I3 is threaded into the central channel of the spiral-shaped p97 hexamer, while other elements of I3 are still attached to PP1. Thus, our data show how p97 arranges a protein complex between the p97 N-domain and central channel, suggesting a hold-and-extract mechanism for p97-mediated disassembly.
PXD035893	37264934	Multiomic analysis of cohesin reveals that ZBTB transcription factors contribute to chromatin interactions. 	Multiomic analysis of Cohesin reveals that ZBTB transcription factors contribute to chromatin interactions	B16, CH12F3, ChIP-MS, HEK293Ts, label-free, mESCs	One bottleneck in understanding the principles of 3D chromatin structures is caused by the paucity of known regulators. Cohesin is essential for 3D chromatin organization, and its interacting partners are candidate regulators. Here, we performed proteomic profiling of the cohesin in chromatin and identified transcription factors, RNA-binding proteins and chromatin regulators associated with cohesin. Acute protein degradation followed by time-series genomic binding quantitation and BAT Hi-C analysis were conducted, and the results showed that the transcription factor ZBTB21 contributes to cohesin chromatin binding, 3D chromatin interactions and transcriptional repression. Strikingly, multiomic analyses revealed that the other four ZBTB factors interacted with cohesin, and double degradation of ZBTB21 and ZBTB7B led to a further decrease in cohesin chromatin occupancy. We propose that multiple ZBTB transcription factors orchestrate the chromatin binding of cohesin to regulate chromatin interactions, and we provide a catalog of many additional proteins associated with cohesin that warrant further investigation.
PXD042828	37266577	Decapping factor Dcp2 controls mRNA abundance and translation to adjust metabolism and filamentation to nutrient availability. 	mRNA decapping activators Pat1 and Dhh1 regulate transcript abundance and translation to tune cellular responses to nutrient availability	Saccharomyces cerevisiea, mRNA decay, translation	Degradation of most yeast mRNAs involves decapping by Dcp1/Dcp2. DEAD-box protein Dhh1 has been implicated as an activator of decapping, in coupling codon non-optimality to enhanced degradation, and as a translational repressor, but its functions in cells are incompletely understood. RNA-Seq analyses coupled with CAGE sequencing of all capped mRNAs revealed increased abundance of hundreds of mRNAs in dcp2Delta cells that appears to result directly from impaired decapping rather than elevated transcription. Interestingly, only a subset of mRNAs requires Dhh1 for targeting by Dcp2, and also generally requires the other decapping activators Pat1, Edc3, or Scd6; whereas most of the remaining transcripts utilize nonsense-mediated mRNA decay factors for Dcp2-mediated turnover. Neither inefficient translation initiation nor stalled elongation appears to be a major driver of Dhh1-enhanced mRNA degradation. Surprisingly, ribosome profiling revealed that dcp2Delta confers widespread changes in relative translational efficiencies (TEs) that generally favor well-translated mRNAs. Because ribosome biogenesis is reduced while capped mRNA abundance is increased by dcp2Delta, we propose that an increased ratio of mRNA to ribosomes increases competition among mRNAs for limiting ribosomes to favor efficiently translated mRNAs in dcp2Delta cells. Interestingly, genes involved in respiration or utilization of alternative carbon or nitrogen sources are upregulated, and both mitochondrial function and cell filamentation are elevated in dcp2Delta cells, suggesting that decapping sculpts gene expression post-transcriptionally to fine-tune metabolic pathways and morphological transitions according to nutrient availability.
PXD037248	37267103	The E3 ubiquitin ligase FBXL6 controls the quality of newly synthesized mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. 	Proteomic analysis of FBXL6 interacting proteome	Human cell line, Quantitative proteome, immunoprecipitation	In mammals, about 99% of mitochondrial proteins are synthesized in the cytosol as precursors that are subsequently imported into the organelle. The mitochondrial health and functions rely on an accurate quality control of these imported proteins. Here, we show that the E3 ubiquitin ligase F box/leucine-rich-repeat protein 6 (FBXL6) regulates the quality of cytosolically translated mitochondrial proteins. Indeed, we found that FBXL6 substrates are newly synthesized mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. This E3 binds to chaperones involved in the folding and trafficking of newly synthesized peptide and to ribosomal-associated quality control proteins. Deletion of these interacting partners is sufficient to hamper interactions between FBXL6 and its substrate. Furthermore, we show that cells lacking FBXL6 fail to degrade specifically mistranslated mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. Finally, showing the role of FBXL6-dependent mechanism, FBXL6-knockout (KO) cells display mitochondrial ribosomal protein aggregations, altered mitochondrial metabolism, and inhibited cell cycle in oxidative conditions.
PXD018132	37267106	Pyruvate metabolism controls chromatin remodeling during CD4(+) T cell activation. 	A metabolism-epigenome axis controls early events in CD4+ T cell activation	antigen-specific T Cell Receptor (TCR) engagement, human CD4+ T cells	Upon antigen-specific T cell receptor (TCR) engagement, human CD4(+) T cells proliferate and differentiate, a process associated with rapid transcriptional changes and metabolic reprogramming. Here, we show that the generation of extramitochondrial pyruvate is an important step for acetyl-CoA production and subsequent H3K27ac-mediated remodeling of histone acetylation. Histone modification, transcriptomic, and carbon tracing analyses of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH)-deficient T cells show PDH-dependent acetyl-CoA generation as a rate-limiting step during T activation. Furthermore, T cell activation results in the nuclear translocation of PDH and its association with both the p300 acetyltransferase and histone H3K27ac. These data support the tight integration of metabolic and histone-modifying enzymes, allowing metabolic reprogramming to fuel CD4(+) T cell activation. Targeting this pathway may provide a therapeutic approach to specifically regulate antigen-driven T cell activation.
PXD040727	37267530	A High-Throughput Workflow for FFPE Tissue Proteomics. 	A rapid workflow for high-throughput FFPE-based quantitative proteomics	FFPE, LCM, kidney, tandem mass spectrometry	Laser capture microdissection (LCM) has become an indispensable tool for mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of specific regions obtained from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue samples in both clinical and research settings. Low protein yields from LCM samples along with laborious sample processing steps present challenges for proteomic analysis without sacrificing protein and peptide recovery. Automation of sample preparation workflows is still under development, especially for samples such as laser-capture microdissected tissues. Here, we present a simplified and rapid workflow using adaptive focused acoustics (AFA) technology for sample processing for high-throughput FFPE-based proteomics. We evaluated three different workflows: standard extraction method followed by overnight trypsin digestion, AFA-assisted extraction and overnight trypsin digestion, and AFA-assisted extraction simultaneously performed with trypsin digestion. The use of AFA-based ultrasonication enables automated sample processing for high-throughput proteomic analysis of LCM-FFPE tissues in 96-well and 384-well formats. Further, accelerated trypsin digestion combined with AFA dramatically reduced the overall processing times. LC-MS/MS analysis revealed a slightly higher number of protein and peptide identifications in AFA accelerated workflows compared to standard and AFA overnight workflows. Further, we did not observe any difference in the proportion of peptides identified with missed cleavages or deamidated peptides across the three different workflows. Overall, our results demonstrate that the workflow described in this study enables rapid and high-throughput sample processing with greatly reduced sample handling, which is amenable to automation.
PXD035397	37267907	Irisin acts through its integrin receptor in a two-step process involving extracellular Hsp90alpha. 	Irisin acts through its integrin receptor in a novel two-step process	HDX-MS, Integrin, Irisin, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, polypeptide hormone, alphaVbeta5	Exercise benefits the human body in many ways. Irisin is secreted by muscle, increased with exercise, and conveys physiological benefits, including improved cognition and resistance to neurodegeneration. Irisin acts via alphaV integrins; however, a mechanistic understanding of how small polypeptides like irisin can signal through integrins is poorly understood. Using mass spectrometry and cryo-EM, we demonstrate that the extracellular heat shock protein 90alpha (eHsp90alpha) is secreted by muscle with exercise and activates integrin alphaVbeta5. This allows for high-affinity irisin binding and signaling through an Hsp90alpha/alphaV/beta5 complex. By including hydrogen/deuterium exchange data, we generate and experimentally validate a 2.98 Aa RMSD irisin/alphaVbeta5 complex docking model. Irisin binds very tightly to an alternative interface on alphaVbeta5 distinct from that used by known ligands. These data elucidate a non-canonical mechanism by which a small polypeptide hormone like irisin can function through an integrin receptor.
PXD036512	37268618	Serine ADP-ribosylation in Drosophila provides insights into the evolution of reversible ADP-ribosylation signalling. 	Serine ADP-ribosylation in Drosophila provides insights into the evolution of reversible ADP-ribosylation signaling	ADP-ribosylation, ADPr, Af1521, Drosophila, EThcD, PARG, PARP	In the mammalian DNA damage response, ADP-ribosylation signalling is of crucial importance to mark sites of DNA damage as well as recruit and regulate repairs factors. Specifically, the PARP1:HPF1 complex recognises damaged DNA and catalyses the formation of serine-linked ADP-ribosylation marks (mono-Ser-ADPr), which are extended into ADP-ribose polymers (poly-Ser-ADPr) by PARP1 alone. Poly-Ser-ADPr is reversed by PARG, while the terminal mono-Ser-ADPr is removed by ARH3. Despite its significance and apparent evolutionary conservation, little is known about ADP-ribosylation signalling in non-mammalian Animalia. The presence of HPF1, but absence of ARH3, in some insect genomes, including Drosophila species, raises questions regarding the existence and reversal of serine-ADP-ribosylation in these species. Here we show by quantitative proteomics that Ser-ADPr is the major form of ADP-ribosylation in the DNA damage response of Drosophila melanogaster and is dependent on the dParp1:dHpf1 complex. Moreover, our structural and biochemical investigations uncover the mechanism of mono-Ser-ADPr removal by Drosophila Parg. Collectively, our data reveal PARP:HPF1-mediated Ser-ADPr as a defining feature of the DDR in Animalia. The striking conservation within this kingdom suggests that organisms that carry only a core set of ADP-ribosyl metabolising enzymes, such as Drosophila, are valuable model organisms to study the physiological role of Ser-ADPr signalling.
PXD025717	37268630	Structural insights into perilipin 3 membrane association in response to diacylglycerol accumulation. 	HDX-MS analysis of PLIN3 membrane binding	HDX, HDX-MS, PLIN3	Lipid droplets (LDs) are dynamic organelles that contain an oil core mainly composed of triglycerides (TAG) that is surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer and LD-associated proteins called perilipins (PLINs). During LD biogenesis, perilipin 3 (PLIN3) is recruited to nascent LDs as they emerge from the endoplasmic reticulum. Here, we analyze how lipid composition affects PLIN3 recruitment to membrane bilayers and LDs, and the structural changes that occur upon membrane binding. We find that the TAG precursors phosphatidic acid and diacylglycerol (DAG) recruit PLIN3 to membrane bilayers and define an expanded Perilipin-ADRP-Tip47 (PAT) domain that preferentially binds DAG-enriched membranes. Membrane binding induces a disorder to order transition of alpha helices within the PAT domain and 11-mer repeats, with intramolecular distance measurements consistent with the expanded PAT domain adopting a folded but dynamic structure upon membrane binding. In cells, PLIN3 is recruited to DAG-enriched ER membranes, and this requires both the PAT domain and 11-mer repeats. This provides molecular details of PLIN3 recruitment to nascent LDs and identifies a function of the PAT domain of PLIN3 in DAG binding.
PXD042026	37268664	Targeting the post-synaptic proteome has therapeutic potential for psychosis in Alzheimer Disease. 	Targeting the Post-Synaptic Proteome in Alzheimer Disease with Psychosis	Alzheimer's Disease, Post-synaptic Density, Proteomics: Systems Pharmacology, Psychosis	Individuals with Alzheimer Disease who develop psychotic symptoms (AD + P) experience more rapid cognitive decline and have reduced indices of synaptic integrity relative to those without psychosis (AD-P). We sought to determine whether the postsynaptic density (PSD) proteome is altered in AD + P relative to AD-P, analyzing PSDs from dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of AD + P, AD-P, and a reference group of cognitively normal elderly subjects. The PSD proteome of AD + P showed a global shift towards lower levels of all proteins relative to AD-P, enriched for kinases, proteins regulating Rho GTPases, and other regulators of the actin cytoskeleton. We computationally identified potential novel therapies predicted to reverse the PSD protein signature of AD + P. Five days of administration of one of these drugs, the C-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 5 inhibitor, maraviroc, led to a net reversal of the PSD protein signature in adult mice, nominating it as a novel potential treatment for AD + P.
PXD039724	37269196	Proteomics coupled transcriptomics reveals lipopolysaccharide inhibiting peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors signalling pathway to reduce lipid droplets accumulation in mouse liver. 	Proteomics coupled transcriptomics reveals lipopolysaccharide inhibiting peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors signalling pathway to reduce lipid droplets accumulation in mouse liver	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors signalling pathway, Quantitative proteomics, lipid droplet, lipopolysaccharide	Lipid droplets (LDs) are multifunctional organelles consisting of a central compartment of non-polar lipids shielded from the cytoplasm by a phospholipid monolayer. The excessive accumulation of LDs in cells is closely related to the development and progression of many diseases in humans and animals, such as liver-related and cardiovascular diseases. Thus, regulating the LDs size and abundance is necessary to maintain metabolic homeostasis. This study found that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation reduced the LDs content in the mouse liver. We tried to explain the possible molecular mechanisms at the broad protein and mRNA levels, finding that inhibition of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) signalling pathway by LPS may be a critical factor in reducing LDs content.
PXD039391	37271138	Isoflurane Rapidly Modifies Synaptic and Cytoskeletal Phosphoproteomes of the Supraoptic Nucleus of the Hypothalamus and the Cortex. 	General anaesthesia leads to phosphoproteome changes in proteins involved in cytoskeleton remodelling and synaptic processes in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus	Rat, SupraOptic, anaesthetic, cytoskeleton, phosphorylation, synapse	INTRODUCTION: Despite the widespread use of general anaesthetics, the mechanisms mediating their effects are still not understood. Although suppressed in most parts of the brain, neuronal activity, as measured by FOS activation, is increased in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON) by numerous general anaesthetics, and evidence points to this brain region being involved in the induction of general anaesthesia (GA) and natural sleep. Posttranslational modifications of proteins, including changes in phosphorylation, enable fast modulation of protein function which could be underlying the rapid effects of GA. In order to identify potential phosphorylation events in the brain-mediating GA effects, we have explored the phosphoproteome responses in the rat SON and compared these to cingulate cortex (CC) which displays no FOS activation in response to general anaesthetics. METHODS: Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with isoflurane for 15 min. Proteins from the CC and SON were extracted and processed for nano-LC mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Phosphoproteomic determinations were performed by LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: We found many changes in the phosphoproteomes of both the CC and SON in response to 15 min of isoflurane exposure. Pathway analysis indicated that proteins undergoing phosphorylation adaptations are involved in cytoskeleton remodelling and synaptic signalling events. Importantly, changes in protein phosphorylation appeared to be brain region specific suggesting that differential phosphorylation adaptations might underlie the different neuronal activity responses to GA between the CC and SON. CONCLUSION: In summary, these data suggest that rapid posttranslational modifications in proteins involved in cytoskeleton remodelling and synaptic signalling events might mediate the central mechanisms mediating GA.
PXD033228	37271289	Hypusination Maintains Intestinal Homeostasis and Prevents Colitis and Carcinogenesis by Enhancing Aldehyde Detoxification. 	Analysis of the proteome of epithelial cells from mice with specific deletion of DHPS	colitis, colonic epithelial cells, colorectal cancer, hypusine, polyamines	BACKGROUND & AIMS: The amino acid hypusine, synthesized from the polyamine spermidine by the enzyme deoxyhypusine synthase (DHPS), is essential for the activity of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (EIF5A). The role of hypusinated EIF5A (EIF5A(Hyp)) remains unknown in intestinal homeostasis. Our aim was to investigate EIF5A(Hyp) in the gut epithelium in inflammation and carcinogenesis. METHODS: We used human colon tissue messenger RNA samples and publicly available transcriptomic datasets, tissue microarrays, and patient-derived colon organoids. Mice with intestinal epithelial-specific deletion of Dhps were investigated at baseline and in models of colitis and colon carcinogenesis. RESULTS: We found that patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease exhibit reduced colon levels of DHPS messenger RNA and DHPS protein and reduced levels of EIF5A(Hyp). Similarly, colonic organoids from colitis patients also show down-regulated DHPS expression. Mice with intestinal epithelial-specific deletion of Dhps develop spontaneous colon hyperplasia, epithelial proliferation, crypt distortion, and inflammation. Furthermore, these mice are highly susceptible to experimental colitis and show exacerbated colon tumorigenesis when treated with a carcinogen. Transcriptomic and proteomic analysis on colonic epithelial cells demonstrated that loss of hypusination induces multiple pathways related to cancer and immune response. Moreover, we found that hypusination enhances translation of numerous enzymes involved in aldehyde detoxification, including glutathione S-transferases and aldehyde dehydrogenases. Accordingly, hypusination-deficient mice exhibit increased levels of aldehyde adducts in the colon, and their treatment with a scavenger of electrophiles reduces colitis. CONCLUSIONS: Hypusination in intestinal epithelial cells has a key role in the prevention of colitis and colorectal cancer, and enhancement of this pathway via supplementation of spermidine could have a therapeutic impact.
PXD039742	37271582	Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics reveals osmotic adaptation mechanisms in Alkalicoccus halolimnae BZ-SZ-XJ29(T) , a halophilic bacterium with a broad salinity range for optimal growth. 	Tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics reveals osmotic adaptation mechanisms in Alkalicoccus halolimnae	Alkalicoccus halolimnae, Moderate halophile, TMT-proteomics	The moderate halophilic bacterium Alkalicoccus halolimnae BZ-SZ-XJ29(T) exhibits optimum growth over a wide range of NaCl concentrations (8.3-12.3%, w/v; 1.42-2.1 mol L(-1) ). However, its adaptive mechanisms to cope with high salt-induced osmotic stress remain unclear. Using TMT-based quantitative proteomics, the cellular proteome was assessed under low (4% NaCl, 0.68 mol L(-1) NaCl, control (CK) group), moderate (8% NaCl, 1.37 mol L(-1) NaCl), high (12% NaCl, 2.05 mol L(-1) NaCl), and extremely high (16% NaCl, 2.74 mol L(-1) NaCl) salinity conditions. Digital droplet PCR confirmed the transcription of candidate genes related to salinity. A. halolimnae utilized distinct adaptation strategies to cope with different salinity conditions. Mechanisms such as accumulating different amounts and types of compatible solutes (i.e., ectoine, glycine betaine, glutamate, and glutamine) and the uptake of glycine betaine and glutamate were employed to cope with osmotic stress. Ectoine synthesis and accumulation were critical to the salt adaptation of A. halolimnae. The expression of EctA, EctB, and EctC, as well as the intracellular accumulation of ectoine, significantly and consistently increased with increasing salinity. Glycine betaine and glutamate concentrations remained constant under the four NaCl concentrations. The total content of glutamine and glutamate maintained a dynamic balance and, when exposed to different salinities, may play a role in low salinity-induced osmoadaptation. Moreover, cellular metabolism was severely affected at high salt concentrations, but the synthesis of amino acids, carbohydrate metabolism, and membrane transport related to haloadptation was preserved to maintain cytoplasmic concentration at high salinity. These findings provide insights into the osmoadaptation mechanisms of moderate halophiles and can serve as a theoretical underpinning for industrial production and application of compatible solutes.
PXD040508	37271942	Discovery of Itaconate-Mediated Lysine Acylation. 	Discovery of Itaconate-Mediated Lysine Acylation	itaconate, itaconylation, post-translational modification	Itaconate is an important antimicrobial and immunoregulatory metabolite involved in host-pathogen interactions. A key mechanistic action of itaconate is through the covalent modification of cysteine residues via Michael addition, resulting in "itaconation". However, it is unclear whether itaconate has other regulatory mechanisms. In this work, we discovered a novel type of post-translational modification by promiscuous antibody enrichment and data analysis with the open-search strategy and further confirmed it as the lysine "itaconylation". We showed that itaconylation and its precursor metabolite itaconyl-CoA undergo significant upregulation upon lipopolysaccharides (LPS) stimulation in RAW264.7 macrophages. Quantitative proteomics identified itaconylation sites in multiple functional proteins, including glycolytic enzymes and histones, some of which were confirmed by synthetic peptide standards. The discovery of lysine itaconylation opens up new areas for studying how itaconate participates in immunoregulation via protein post-translational modification.
PXD061158	37274446	Dual human iPSC-derived cardiac lineage cell-seeding extracellular matrix patches promote regeneration and long-term repair of infarcted hearts. 	Dual human iPSC-derived cardiac lineage cell-seeding extracellular matrix patches promote regeneration and long-term repair of infarcted hearts	Cardiac lineage cells, Cardiomyocyte regeneration, Extracellular matrix patch, Induced human pluripotent stem cells, Infarcted heart repair	Human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiovascular progenitor cells (hCVPCs) and cardiomyocytes (hCMs) possess therapeutic potential for infarcted hearts; however, their efficacy needs to be enhanced. Here we tested the hypotheses that the combination of decellularized porcine small intestinal submucosal extracellular matrix (SIS-ECM) with hCVPCs, hCMs, or dual of them (Mix, 1:1) could provide better therapeutic effects than the SIS alone, and dual hCVPCs with hCMs would exert synergic effects in cardiac repair. The data showed that the SIS patch well supported the growth of hCVPCs and hCMs. Epicardially implanted SIS-hCVPC, SIS-hCM, or SIS-Mix patches at 7-day post-myocardial infarction significantly ameliorated functional worsening, ventricular dilation and scar formation at 28- and 90-day post-implantation in C57/B6 mice, whereas the SIS only mildly improved function at 90-day post-implantation. Moreover, the SIS and SIS-cell patches improved vascularization and suppressed MI-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and expression of Col1 and Col3, but only the SIS-hCM and the SIS-Mix patches increased the ratio of collagen III/I fibers in the infarcted hearts. Further, the SIS-cell patches stimulated cardiomyocyte proliferation via paracrine action. Notably, the SIS-Mix had better improvements in cardiac function and structure, engraftments, and cardiomyocyte proliferation. Proteomic analysis showed distinct biological functions of exclusive proteins secreted from hCVPCs and hCMs, and more exclusive proteins secreted from co-cultivated hCVPCs and hCMs than mono-cells involving in various functional processes essential for infarct repair. These findings are the first to demonstrate the efficacy and mechanisms of mono- and dual-hCVPC- and hCM-seeding SIS-ECM for repair of infarcted hearts based on the side-by-side comparison.
PXD041952	37277330	Epigenetic suppression of PGC1alpha (PPARGC1A) causes collateral sensitivity to HMGCR-inhibitors within BRAF-treatment resistant melanomas. 	suppression of PPARGC1A causes collateral sensitivity to HMGCR-inhibitor within BRAFi-treatement resistant melanoma	Melanoma statin PPARGC1A statin	While targeted treatment against BRAF(V600E) improve survival for melanoma patients, many will see their cancer recur. Here we provide data indicating that epigenetic suppression of PGC1alpha defines an aggressive subset of chronic BRAF-inhibitor treated melanomas. A metabolism-centered pharmacological screen further identifies statins (HMGCR inhibitors) as a collateral vulnerability within PGC1alpha-suppressed BRAF-inhibitor resistant melanomas. Lower PGC1alpha levels mechanistically causes reduced RAB6B and RAB27A expression, whereby their combined re-expression reverses statin vulnerability. BRAF-inhibitor resistant cells with reduced PGC1alpha have increased integrin-FAK signaling and improved extracellular matrix detached survival cues that helps explain their increased metastatic ability. Statin treatment blocks cell growth by lowering RAB6B and RAB27A prenylation that reduces their membrane association and affects integrin localization and downstream signaling required for growth. These results suggest that chronic adaptation to BRAF-targeted treatments drive novel collateral metabolic vulnerabilities, and that HMGCR inhibitors may offer a strategy to treat melanomas recurring with suppressed PGC1alpha expression.
PXD038803	37279935	Metrologically Traceable Quantification of 3 Apolipoprotein E Isoforms in Cerebrospinal Fluid. 	Metrologically traceable quantification of three apolipoprotein E isoforms in cerebrospinal fluid	Alzheimer's disease, apolipoprotein E, isoform, neurodegenerative disorders, single-point calibration	BACKGROUND: APOE genotype is associated with Alzheimer disease. Thus, the concentration of apolipoprotein E (apoE) isoforms in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) could be altered in dementia. However, conflicting results have been obtained in different studies. Carefully validated and standardized assays could improve the interpretation of research findings, allow their replication in other laboratories, and generalize their application. METHODS: To evaluate this hypothesis, we aimed to develop, validate, and standardize a new measurement procedure using LC-MS/MS. Purified recombinant apoE protein standards (E2, E3, E4) were thoroughly characterized and used to assign the concentration of a matrix-matched calibration material that contained each apoE isoform, which ensured the metrological traceability of results. RESULTS: The assay of each isoform in human CSF was precise (<=11%CV) and of moderate throughput (approximately 80 samples per day). It demonstrated good linearity and parallelism for lumbar CSF, ventricular CSF, and bovine CSF. The use of an SI-traceable matrix-matched calibrator enabled precise and accurate measurements. There was no association observed between total apoE concentration and the number of E4 alleles in a cohort of 322 participants. However, the concentration of each isoform was significantly different in heterozygotes, with E4 > E3 > E2. Isoform concentrations were associated with cognitive and motor symptoms but contributed negligibly to a predictive model of cognitive impairment that included established CSF biomarkers. CONCLUSIONS: Our method simultaneously measures each apoE isoform in human CSF with excellent precision and accuracy. A secondary matrix-matched material has been developed and is available to other laboratories to improve interlaboratory agreement.
PXD033150	37280197	LIS1 RNA-binding orchestrates the mechanosensitive properties of embryonic stem cells in AGO2-dependent and independent ways. 	LIS1 RNA binding orchestartes the mechanosensitive properties of embryonic stem cells in AGO2 dependent and independent ways.	AGO1-4 KO, Dox.AGO2, Flox/-, Human Proteome Project, LIS1 IP, OE, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), WT, mouse embyonic stem cells, nuclear and cytoplasmic fractions	Lissencephaly-1 (LIS1) is associated with neurodevelopmental diseases and is known to regulate the molecular motor cytoplasmic dynein activity. Here we show that LIS1 is essential for the viability of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), and it governs the physical properties of these cells. LIS1 dosage substantially affects gene expression, and we uncovered an unexpected interaction of LIS1 with RNA and RNA-binding proteins, most prominently the Argonaute complex. We demonstrate that LIS1 overexpression partially rescued the extracellular matrix (ECM) expression and mechanosensitive genes conferring stiffness to Argonaute null mESCs. Collectively, our data transforms the current perspective on the roles of LIS1 in post-transcriptional regulation underlying development and mechanosensitive processes.
PXD034615	37280207	Super enhancers targeting ZBTB16 in osteogenesis protect against osteoporosis. 	BRD4 regulates the osteogenic differentiation of MSCs	MSCs	As the major cell precursors in osteogenesis, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are indispensable for bone homeostasis and development. However, the primary mechanisms regulating osteogenic differentiation are controversial. Composed of multiple constituent enhancers, super enhancers (SEs) are powerful cis-regulatory elements that identify genes that ensure sequential differentiation. The present study demonstrated that SEs were indispensable for MSC osteogenesis and involved in osteoporosis development. Through integrated analysis, we identified the most common SE-targeted and osteoporosis-related osteogenic gene, ZBTB16. ZBTB16, positively regulated by SEs, promoted MSC osteogenesis but was expressed at lower levels in osteoporosis. Mechanistically, SEs recruited bromodomain containing 4 (BRD4) at the site of ZBTB16, which then bound to RNA polymerase II-associated protein 2 (RPAP2) that transported RNA polymerase II (POL II) into the nucleus. The subsequent synergistic regulation of POL II carboxyterminal domain (CTD) phosphorylation by BRD4 and RPAP2 initiated ZBTB16 transcriptional elongation, which facilitated MSC osteogenesis via the key osteogenic transcription factor SP7. Bone-targeting ZBTB16 overexpression had a therapeutic effect on the decreased bone density and remodeling capacity of Brd4(fl/fl) Prx1-cre mice and osteoporosis (OP) models. Therefore, our study shows that SEs orchestrate the osteogenesis of MSCs by targeting ZBTB16 expression, which provides an attractive focus and therapeutic target for osteoporosis. Without SEs located on osteogenic genes, BRD4 is not able to bind to osteogenic identity genes due to its closed structure before osteogenesis. During osteogenesis, histones on osteogenic identity genes are acetylated, and OB-gain SEs appear, enabling the binding of BRD4 to the osteogenic identity gene ZBTB16. RPAP2 transports RNA Pol II from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and guides Pol II to target ZBTB16 via recognition of the navigator BRD4 on SEs. After the binding of the RPAP2-Pol II complex to BRD4 on SEs, RPAP2 dephosphorylates Ser5 at the Pol II CTD to terminate the transcriptional pause, and BRD4 phosphorylates Ser2 at the Pol II CTD to initiate transcriptional elongation, which synergistically drives efficient transcription of ZBTB16, ensuring proper osteogenesis. Dysregulation of SE-mediated ZBTB16 expression leads to osteoporosis, and bone-targeting ZBTB16 overexpression is efficient in accelerating bone repair and treating osteoporosis.
PXD042336	37280269	A novel strategy to characterize the pattern of beta-lactam antibiotic-induced drug resistance in Acinetobacter baumannii. 	A novel strategy to characterize the pattern of beta-lactam antibiotic-induced drug resistance in Acinetobacter baumannii.	Acinetobacter baumannii, DDA LFQ, tims Tof Pro2	Carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAb) is an urgent public health threat, according to the CDC. This pathogen has few treatment options and causes severe nosocomial infections with > 50% fatality rate. Although previous studies have examined the proteome of CRAb, there have been no focused analyses of dynamic changes to beta-lactamase expression that may occur due to drug exposure. Here, we present our initial proteomic study of variation in beta-lactamase expression that occurs in CRAb with different beta-lactam antibiotics. Briefly, drug resistance to Ab (ATCC 19606) was induced by the administration of various classes of beta-lactam antibiotics, and the cell-free supernatant was isolated, concentrated, separated by SDS-PAGE, digested with trypsin, and identified by label-free LC-MS-based quantitative proteomics. Thirteen proteins were identified and evaluated using a 1789 sequence database of Ab beta-lactamases from UniProt, the majority of which were Class C beta-lactamases (>= 80%). Importantly, different antibiotics, even those of the same class (e.g. penicillin and amoxicillin), induced non-equivalent responses comprising various isoforms of Class C and D serine-beta-lactamases, resulting in unique resistomes. These results open the door to a new approach of analyzing and studying the problem of multi-drug resistance in bacteria that rely strongly on beta-lactamase expression.
PXD036416	37280636	Domino-like effect of C112R mutation on ApoE4 aggregation and its reduction by Alzheimer's Disease drug candidate. 	Domino-like Effect of C112R Mutation on APOE4 Aggregation and Its Suppression by Alzheimer's Disease Drug Candidate	Ageing, Alzheimer's disease, Apolipoprotein E, HDX-MS, molecular dynamics	BACKGROUND: Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 genotype is the most prevalent risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Although ApoE4 differs from its non-pathological ApoE3 isoform only by the C112R mutation, the molecular mechanism of its proteinopathy is unknown. METHODS: Here, we reveal the molecular mechanism of ApoE4 aggregation using a combination of experimental and computational techniques, including X-ray crystallography, site-directed mutagenesis, hydrogen-deuterium mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), static light scattering and molecular dynamics simulations. Treatment of ApoE epsilon3/epsilon3 and epsilon4/epsilon4 cerebral organoids with tramiprosate was used to compare the effect of tramiprosate on ApoE4 aggregation at the cellular level. RESULTS: We found that C112R substitution in ApoE4 induces long-distance (> 15 Aa) conformational changes leading to the formation of a V-shaped dimeric unit that is geometrically different and more aggregation-prone than the ApoE3 structure. AD drug candidate tramiprosate and its metabolite 3-sulfopropanoic acid induce ApoE3-like conformational behavior in ApoE4 and reduce its aggregation propensity. Analysis of ApoE epsilon4/epsilon4 cerebral organoids treated with tramiprosate revealed its effect on cholesteryl esters, the storage products of excess cholesterol. CONCLUSIONS: Our results connect the ApoE4 structure with its aggregation propensity, providing a new druggable target for neurodegeneration and ageing.
PXD038103	37283223	A monoclonal antibody raised against human EZH2 cross-reacts with the RNA-binding protein SAFB. 	Identification of SAFB and HnrnpU interactors	RNA Binding Proteins, development, stem cell	The Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) is a conserved enzyme that tri-methylates Lysine 27 on Histone 3 (H3K27me3) to promote gene silencing. PRC2 is remarkably responsive to the expression of certain long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). In the most notable example, PRC2 is recruited to the X-chromosome shortly after expression of the lncRNA Xist begins during X-chromosome inactivation. However, the mechanisms by which lncRNAs recruit PRC2 to chromatin are not yet clear. We report that a broadly used rabbit monoclonal antibody raised against human EZH2, a catalytic subunit of PRC2, cross-reacts with an RNA-binding protein called Scaffold Attachment Factor B (SAFB) in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) under buffer conditions that are commonly used for chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Knockout of EZH2 in ESCs demonstrated that the antibody is specific for EZH2 by western blot (no cross-reactivity). Likewise, comparison to previously published datasets confirmed that the antibody recovers PRC2-bound sites by ChIP-Seq. However, RNA-IP from formaldehyde-crosslinked ESCs using ChIP wash conditions recovers distinct peaks of RNA association that co-localize with peaks of SAFB and whose enrichment disappears upon knockout of SAFB but not EZH2. IP and mass spectrometry-based proteomics in wild-type and EZH2 knockout ESCs confirm that the EZH2 antibody recovers SAFB in an EZH2-independent manner. Our data highlight the importance of orthogonal assays when studying interactions between chromatin-modifying enzymes and RNA.
PXD039552	37283406	Interlaboratory Variability in the Madin-Darby Canine Kidney Cell Proteome. 	Inter-Laboratory Variability in the Madin-Darby Canine Kidney Cell ProteomeInter-Laboratory Variability in the Madin-Darby Canine Kidney Cell Proteome	ADME Protein Abundances, Epithelial Proteome, Label-free Proteomics, MDCK, Total Protein Analysis (TPA)	Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells are widely used to study epithelial cell functionality. Their low endogenous drug transporter protein levels make them an amenable system to investigate transepithelial permeation and drug transporter protein activity after their transfection. MDCK cells display diverse phenotypic traits, and as such, laboratory-to-laboratory variability in drug permeability assessments is observed. Consequently, in vitro-in vivo extrapolation (IVIVE) approaches using permeability and/or transporter activity data require calibration. A comprehensive proteomic quantification of 11 filter-grown parental or mock-transfected MDCK monolayers from 8 different pharmaceutical laboratories using the total protein approach (TPA) is provided. The TPA enables estimations of key morphometric parameters such as monolayer cellularity and volume. Overall, metabolic liability to xenobiotics is likely to be limited for MDCK cells due to the low expression of required enzymes. SLC16A1 (MCT1) was the highest abundant SLC transporter linked to xenobiotic activity, while ABCC4 (MRP4) was the highest abundant ABC transporter. Our data supports existing findings that claudin-2 levels may be linked to tight junction modulation, thus impacting trans-epithelial resistance. This unique database provides data on more than 8000 protein copy numbers and concentrations, thus allowing an in-depth appraisal of the control monolayers used in each laboratory.
PXD033983	37283752	Synovial monocytes contribute to chronic inflammation in childhood-onset arthritis via IL-6/STAT signalling and cell-cell interactions. 	Proteome characterization of synovial fluid polarized healthy monocytes	Monocytes, inflammation, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, synovial fluid	Introduction: Monocytes are key effector cells in inflammatory processes. We and others have previously shown that synovial monocytes in childhood-onset arthritis are activated. However, very little is known about how they contribute to disease and attain their pathological features. Therefore, we set out to investigate the functional alterations of synovial monocytes in childhood-onset arthritis, how they acquire this phenotype, and whether these mechanisms could be used to tailorize treatment. Methods: The function of synovial monocytes was analysed by assays believed to reflect key pathological events, such as T-cell activation-, efferocytosis- and cytokine production assays using flow cytometry in untreated oligoarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (oJIA) patients (n=33). The effect of synovial fluid on healthy monocytes was investigated through mass spectrometry and functional assays. To characterize pathways induced by synovial fluid, we utilized broad-spectrum phosphorylation assays and flow cytometry, as well as inhibitors to block specific pathways. Additional effects on monocytes were studied through co-cultures with fibroblast-like synoviocytes or migration in transwell systems. Results: Synovial monocytes display functional alterations with inflammatory and regulatory features, e.g., increased ability to induce T-cell activation, resistance to cytokine production following activation with LPS and increased efferocytosis. In vitro, synovial fluid from patients induced the regulatory features in healthy monocytes, such as resistance to cytokine production and increased efferocytosis. IL-6/JAK/STAT signalling was identified as the main pathway induced by synovial fluid, which also was responsible for a majority of the induced features. The magnitude of synovial IL-6 driven activation in monocytes was reflected in circulating cytokine levels, reflecting two groups of low vs. high local and systemic inflammation. Remaining features, such as an increased ability to induce T-cell activation and markers of antigen presentation, could be induced by cell-cell interactions, specifically via co-culture with fibroblast-like synoviocytes. Conclusions: Synovial monocytes in childhood-onset arthritis are functionally affected and contribute to chronic inflammation, e.g., via promoting adaptive immune responses. These data support a role of monocytes in the pathogenesis of oJIA and highlight a group of patients more likely to benefit from targeting the IL-6/JAK/STAT axis to restore synovial homeostasis.
PXD041449	37285335	A short peptide LINC00665_18aa encoded by lncRNA LINC00665 suppresses the proliferation and migration of osteosarcoma cells through the regulation of the CREB1/RPS6KA3 interaction. 	A short peptide LINC00665_18aa encoded by lncRNA LINC00665 suppresses the proliferation and migration of osteosarcoma cells through the regulation of the CREB1/RPS6KA3 interaction	IP-MS, LINC00665_18aa	Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) encompass short open reading frames (sORFs) that can be translated into small peptides. Here, we investigated the encoding potential of lncRNA LINC00665 in osteosarcoma (OS) cells. Bioinformatic analyses were utilized to predict the lncRNAs with encoding potential in human U2OS cells. Protein expression was assessed by an immunoblotting or immunofluorescence method. Cell viability was assessed by cell counting Kit-8 (CCK-8). Cell proliferation was detected by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay. Cell migration was gauged by transwell assay. The downstream effectors of the short peptide were verified using qualitative proteome analysis after immunoprecipitation (IP) experiments. The effect of the short peptide on protein interactions were confirmed by Co-Immunoprecipitation (CoIP) assays. We found that lncRNA LINC00665 encoded an 18-amino acid (aa)-long short peptide (named LINC00665_18aa). LINC00665_18aa suppressed the viability, proliferation, and migration of human MNNG-HOS and U2OS OS cells in vitro and diminished tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, LINC00665_18aa impaired the transcriptional activity, nuclear localization, and phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein 1 (CREB1). Moreover, LINC00665_18aa weakened the interaction between CREB1 and ribosomal protein S6 kinase A3 (RPS6KA3, RSK2). Additionally, increased expression of CREB1 reversed the inhibitory effects of LINC00665_18aa on OS cell proliferation and migration. Our findings show that the short peptide LINC00665_18aa exerts a tumor-inhibitory function in OS, providing a new basis for cancer therapeutics through the functions of the short peptides encoded by lncRNAs.
PXD022877	37285454	AzidoTMT Enables Direct Enrichment and Highly Multiplexed Quantitation of Proteome-Wide Functional Residues. 	Ma et al. 2020 Multiplexed, activity based proteome-wide functional residue profiling	AT-MAPP, AzidoTMT, Cysteine profiling, covalent inhibitors	Recent advances in targeted covalent inhibitors have aroused significant interest for their potential in drug development for difficult therapeutic targets. Proteome-wide profiling of functional residues is an integral step of covalent drug discovery aimed at defining actionable sites and evaluating compound selectivity in cells. A classical workflow for this purpose is called IsoTOP-ABPP, which employs an activity-based probe and two isotopically labeled azide-TEV-biotin tags to mark, enrich, and quantify proteome from two samples. Here we report a novel isobaric 11plex-AzidoTMT reagent and a new workflow, named AT-MAPP, that significantly expands multiplexing power as compared to the original isoTOP-ABPP. We demonstrate its application in identifying cysteine on- and off-targets using a KRAS G12C covalent inhibitor ARS-1620. However, changes in some of these hits can be explained by modulation at the protein and post-translational levels. Thus, it would be crucial to interrogate site-level bona fide changes in concurrence to proteome-level changes for corroboration. In addition, we perform a multiplexed covalent fragment screening using four acrylamide-based compounds as a proof-of-concept. This study identifies a diverse set of liganded cysteine residues in a compound-dependent manner with an average hit rate of 0.07% in intact cell. Lastly, we screened 20 sulfonyl fluoride-based compounds to demonstrate that the AT-MAPP assay is flexible for noncysteine functional residues such as tyrosine and lysine. Overall, we envision that 11plex-AzidoTMT will be a useful addition to the current toolbox for activity-based protein profiling and covalent drug development.
PXD040913	37286573	Elevated plasma complement factor H related 5 protein is associated with venous thromboembolism. 	Elevated plasma Complement Factor H Regulating Protein 5 is associated  with venous thromboembolism	blood plasma, complement factor, venous thromboelism	Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a common, multi-causal disease with potentially serious short- and long-term complications. In clinical practice, there is a need for improved plasma biomarker-based tools for VTE diagnosis and risk prediction. Here we show, using proteomics profiling to screen plasma from patients with suspected acute VTE, and several case-control studies for VTE, how Complement Factor H Related 5 protein (CFHR5), a regulator of the alternative pathway of complement activation, is a VTE-associated plasma biomarker. In plasma, higher CFHR5 levels are associated with increased thrombin generation potential and recombinant CFHR5 enhanced platelet activation in vitro. GWAS analysis of ~52,000 participants identifies six loci associated with CFHR5 plasma levels, but Mendelian randomization do not demonstrate causality between CFHR5 and VTE. Our results indicate an important role for the regulation of the alternative pathway of complement activation in VTE and that CFHR5 represents a potential diagnostic and/or risk predictive plasma biomarker.
PXD034863	37286596	Outer membrane utilisomes mediate glycan uptake in gut Bacteroidetes. 	Outer membrane utilisomes mediate oligosaccharide uptake in gut Bacteroidetes	Glycan utilisation, Gut Bacteroidetes, Microbiota, Outer membrane proteome	Bacteroidetes are abundant members of the human microbiota, utilizing a myriad of diet- and host-derived glycans in the distal gut(1). Glycan uptake across the bacterial outer membrane of these bacteria is mediated by SusCD protein complexes, comprising a membrane-embedded barrel and a lipoprotein lid, which is thought to open and close to facilitate substrate binding and transport. However, surface-exposed glycan-binding proteins and glycoside hydrolases also play critical roles in the capture, processing and transport of large glycan chains. The interactions between these components in the outer membrane are poorly understood, despite being crucial for nutrient acquisition by our colonic microbiota. Here we show that for both the levan and dextran utilization systems of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, the additional outer membrane components assemble on the core SusCD transporter, forming stable glycan-utilizing machines that we term utilisomes. Single-particle cryogenic electron microscopy structures in the absence and presence of substrate reveal concerted conformational changes that demonstrate the mechanism of substrate capture, and rationalize the role of each component in the utilisome.
PXD040205	37287406	Fast proteomics with dia-PASEF and analytical flow-rate chromatography. 	Fast proteomics with dia-PASEF and analytical flow-rate chromatography 	COVID-19, Plasma proteomics, TimsTOF, dia-PASEF, fast methods, high-throughput, short gradient	Increased throughput in proteomic experiments can improve accessibility of proteomic platforms, reduce costs, and facilitate new approaches in systems biology and biomedical research. Here we propose combination of analytical flow rate chromatography with ion mobility separation of peptide ions, data-independent acquisition, and data analysis with the DIA-NN software suite, to achieve high-quality proteomic experiments from limited sample amounts, at a throughput of up to 400 samples per day. For instance, when benchmarking our workflow using a 500-muL/min flow rate and 3-min chromatographic gradients, we report the quantification of 5211 proteins from 2 mug of a mammalian cell-line standard at high quantitative accuracy and precision. We further used this platform to analyze blood plasma samples from a cohort of COVID-19 inpatients, using a 3-min chromatographic gradient and alternating column regeneration on a dual pump system. The method delivered a comprehensive view of the COVID-19 plasma proteome, allowing classification of the patients according to disease severity and revealing plasma biomarker candidates.
PXD038074	37287445	BABA-induced pathogen resistance: a multi-omics analysis of the tomato response reveals a hyper-receptive status involving ethylene. 	BABA-induced pathogen resistance: a multi-omics analysis of the tomato response reveals a hyper-receptive status strongly involving ethylene	beta-aminobutyric acid, ethylene, induce resistance, jasmonic acid, tomato	Prior exposure to microbial-associated molecular patterns or specific chemical compounds can promote plants into a primed state with stronger defence responses. beta-aminobutyric acid (BABA) is an endogenous stress metabolite that induces resistance protecting various plants towards diverse stresses. In this study, by integrating BABA-induced changes in selected metabolites with transcriptome and proteome data, we generated a global map of the molecular processes operating in BABA-induced resistance (BABA-IR) in tomato. BABA significantly restricts the growth of the pathogens Oidium neolycopersici and Phytophthora parasitica but not Botrytis cinerea. A cluster analysis of the upregulated processes showed that BABA acts mainly as a stress factor in tomato. The main factor distinguishing BABA-IR from other stress conditions was the extensive induction of signaling and perception machinery playing a key role in effective resistance against pathogens. Interestingly, the signalling processes and immune response activated during BABA-IR in tomato differed from those in Arabidopsis with substantial enrichment of genes associated with jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene (ET) signalling and no change in Asp levels. Our results revealed key differences between the effect of BABA on tomato and other model plants studied until now. Surprisingly, salicylic acid (SA) is not involved in BABA downstream signalization whereas ET and JA play a crucial role.
PXD023901	37287487	How to use open-pFind in deep proteomics data analysis?- A protocol for rigorous identification and quantitation of peptides and proteins from mass spectrometry data. 	A proteomics data analysis protocol using Open-pFind	Open-pFind, protein identification, protein quantitation	High-throughput proteomics based on mass spectrometry (MS) analysis has permeated biomedical science and propelled numerous research projects. pFind 3 is a database search engine for high-speed and in-depth proteomics data analysis. pFind 3 features a swift open search workflow that is adept at uncovering less obvious information such as unexpected modifications or mutations that would have gone unnoticed using a conventional data analysis pipeline. In this protocol, we provide step-by-step instructions to help users mastering various types of data analysis using pFind 3 in conjunction with pParse for data pre-processing and if needed, pQuant for quantitation. This streamlined pParse-pFind-pQuant workflow offers exceptional sensitivity, precision, and speed. It can be easily implemented in any laboratory in need of identifying peptides, proteins, or post-translational modifications, or of quantitation based on (15)N-labeling, SILAC-labeling, or TMT/iTRAQ labeling.
PXD032253	37287874	DIA-MS2pep: a library-free framework for comprehensive peptide identification from data-independent acquisition data. 	DIA-MS2pep : a library-free framework for comprehensive peptide identifications from DIA-data	DIA-MS2pep, independent acquisition (DIA), library-free	Identifying peptides directly from data-independent acquisition (DIA) data remains challenging due to the highly multiplexed MS/MS spectra. Spectral library-based peptide detection is sensitive, but it is limited to the depth of the library and mutes the discovery potential of DIA data. We present here, DIA-MS2pep, a library-free framework for comprehensive peptide identification from DIA data. DIA-MS2pep uses a data-driven algorithm for MS/MS spectrum demultiplexing using the fragments data without the need of a precursor. With a large precursor mass tolerance database search, DIA-MS2pep can identify the peptides and their modified forms. We demonstrate the performance of DIA-MS2pep by comparing it to conventional library-free tools in accuracy and sensitivity of peptide identifications using publicly available DIA datasets of varying samples, including HeLa cell lysates, phosphopeptides, plasma, etc. Compared with data-dependent acquisition-based spectral libraries, spectral libraries built directly from DIA data with DIA-MS2pep improve the accuracy and reproducibility of the quantitative proteome.
PXD040733	37289586	High-resolution structural-omics of human liver enzymes. 	cryo-EM study of human liver cell lysate	Human liver	We applied raw human liver microsome lysate to a holey carbon grid and used cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to define its composition. From this sample we identified and simultaneously determined high-resolution structural information for ten unique human liver enzymes involved in diverse cellular processes. Notably, we determined the structure of the endoplasmic bifunctional protein H6PD, where the N- and C-terminal domains independently possess glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconolactonase enzymatic activity, respectively. We also obtained the structure of heterodimeric human GANAB, an ER glycoprotein quality-control machinery that contains a catalytic alpha subunit and a noncatalytic beta subunit. In addition, we observed a decameric peroxidase, PRDX4, which directly contacts a disulfide isomerase-related protein, ERp46. Structural data suggest that several glycosylations, bound endogenous compounds, and ions associate with these human liver enzymes. These results highlight the importance of cryo-EM in facilitating the elucidation of human organ proteomics at the atomic level.
PXD040077	37289833	Viral proteogenomic and expression profiling during productive replication of a skin-tropic herpesvirus in the natural host. 	Proteogenomic and expression profiling of Marek's disease virus during fully productive replication in the host	Chicken, MDV, Mareks disease, feather follicle, virus replication	Efficient transmission of herpesviruses is essential for dissemination in host populations; however, little is known about the viral genes that mediate transmission, mostly due to a lack of natural virus-host model systems. Marek's disease is a devastating herpesviral disease of chickens caused by Marek's disease virus (MDV) and an excellent natural model to study skin-tropic herpesviruses and transmission. Like varicella zoster virus that causes chicken pox in humans, the only site where infectious cell-free MD virions are efficiently produced is in epithelial skin cells, a requirement for host-to-host transmission. Here, we enriched for heavily infected feather follicle epithelial skin cells of live chickens to measure both viral transcription and protein expression using combined short- and long-read RNA sequencing and LC/MS-MS bottom-up proteomics. Enrichment produced a previously unseen breadth and depth of viral peptide sequencing. We confirmed protein translation for 84 viral genes at high confidence (1% FDR) and correlated relative protein abundance with RNA expression levels. Using a proteogenomic approach, we confirmed translation of most well-characterized spliced viral transcripts and identified a novel, abundant isoform of the 14 kDa transcript family via IsoSeq transcripts, short-read intron-spanning sequencing reads, and a high-quality junction-spanning peptide identification. We identified peptides representing alternative start codon usage in several genes and putative novel microORFs at the 5' ends of two core herpesviral genes, pUL47 and ICP4, along with strong evidence of independent transcription and translation of the capsid scaffold protein pUL26.5. Using a natural animal host model system to examine viral gene expression provides a robust, efficient, and meaningful way of validating results gathered from cell culture systems.
PXD032368	37291115	THRONCAT: metabolic labeling of newly synthesized proteins using a bioorthogonal threonine analog. 	THRONCAT: Efficient metabolic labelling of newly synthesized proteins using a bioorthogonal threonine analogue	BONCAT, THRONCAT	Profiling the nascent cellular proteome and capturing early proteomic changes in response to external stimuli provides valuable insights into cellular physiology. Existing metabolic protein labeling approaches based on bioorthogonal methionine- or puromycin analogs allow for the selective visualization and enrichment of newly synthesized proteins. However, their applications are limited as they often require methionine-free conditions, auxotrophic cells and/or are toxic to cells. Here, we introduce THRONCAT, a threonine-derived non-canonical amino acid tagging method based on the bioorthogonal threonine analog beta-ethynylserine (betaES) that enables efficient labeling of the nascent proteome in complete growth media within minutes. We use THRONCAT for the visualization and enrichment of nascent proteins in bacteria, mammalian cells and Drosophila melanogaster. We profile immediate proteome dynamics of B-cells in response to B-cell receptor activation simply by adding betaES to the culture medium, demonstrating the ease-of-use of the method and its potential to address diverse biological questions. In addition, using a Drosophila model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth peripheral neuropathy, we show that THRONCAT enables visualization and quantification of relative protein synthesis rates in specific cell types in vivo.
PXD042001	37291213	Integrated multi-omics for rapid rare disease diagnosis on a national scale. 	Integrated multi-omics for rapid rare disease diagnosis on a national scale	genomics, intensive care, transcriptomics	Critically ill infants and children with rare diseases need equitable access to rapid and accurate diagnosis to direct clinical management. Over 2 years, the Acute Care Genomics program provided whole-genome sequencing to 290 families whose critically ill infants and children were admitted to hospitals throughout Australia with suspected genetic conditions. The average time to result was 2.9 d and diagnostic yield was 47%. We performed additional bioinformatic analyses and transcriptome sequencing in all patients who remained undiagnosed. Long-read sequencing and functional assays, ranging from clinically accredited enzyme analysis to bespoke quantitative proteomics, were deployed in selected cases. This resulted in an additional 19 diagnoses and an overall diagnostic yield of 54%. Diagnostic variants ranged from structural chromosomal abnormalities through to an intronic retrotransposon, disrupting splicing. Critical care management changed in 120 diagnosed patients (77%). This included major impacts, such as informing precision treatments, surgical and transplant decisions and palliation, in 94 patients (60%). Our results provide preliminary evidence of the clinical utility of integrating multi-omic approaches into mainstream diagnostic practice to fully realize the potential of rare disease genomic testing in a timely manner.
PXD034007	37291246	Tumour mutations in long noncoding RNAs enhance cell fitness. 	Tumour mutations in long noncoding RNAs enhance cell fitness	Driver gene, cancer, long non-coding RNAs	Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are linked to cancer via pathogenic changes in their expression levels. Yet, it remains unclear whether lncRNAs can also impact tumour cell fitness via function-altering somatic "driver" mutations. To search for such driver-lncRNAs, we here perform a genome-wide analysis of fitness-altering single nucleotide variants (SNVs) across a cohort of 2583 primary and 3527 metastatic tumours. The resulting 54 mutated and positively-selected lncRNAs are significantly enriched for previously-reported cancer genes and a range of clinical and genomic features. A number of these lncRNAs promote tumour cell proliferation when overexpressed in in vitro models. Our results also highlight a dense SNV hotspot in the widely-studied NEAT1 oncogene. To directly evaluate the functional significance of NEAT1 SNVs, we use in cellulo mutagenesis to introduce tumour-like mutations in the gene and observe a significant and reproducible increase in cell fitness, both in vitro and in a mouse model. Mechanistic studies reveal that SNVs remodel the NEAT1 ribonucleoprotein and boost subnuclear paraspeckles. In summary, this work demonstrates the utility of driver analysis for mapping cancer-promoting lncRNAs, and provides experimental evidence that somatic mutations can act through lncRNAs to enhance pathological cancer cell fitness.
PXD041017	37291265	De novo pyrimidine biosynthetic complexes support cancer cell proliferation and ferroptosis defence. 	De novo pyrimidine biosynthetic complexes support cancer cell proliferation and ferroptosis defense	cancer, ferroptosis, pyrimidine	De novo pyrimidine biosynthesis is achieved by cytosolic carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase II, aspartate transcarbamylase and dihydroorotase (CAD) and uridine 5'-monophosphate synthase (UMPS), and mitochondrial dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH). However, how these enzymes are orchestrated remains enigmatical. Here we show that cytosolic glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase 1 clusters with CAD and UMPS, and this complex then connects with DHODH, which is mediated by the mitochondrial outer membrane protein voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein 3. Therefore, these proteins form a multi-enzyme complex, named 'pyrimidinosome', involving AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) as a regulator. Activated AMPK dissociates from the complex to enhance pyrimidinosome assembly but inactivated UMPS, which promotes DHODH-mediated ferroptosis defence. Meanwhile, cancer cells with lower expression of AMPK are more reliant on pyrimidinosome-mediated UMP biosynthesis and more vulnerable to its inhibition. Our findings reveal the role of pyrimidinosome in regulating pyrimidine flux and ferroptosis, and suggest a pharmaceutical strategy of targeting pyrimidinosome in cancer treatment.
PXD040087	37291423	Structure of nascent 5S RNPs at the crossroad between ribosome assembly and MDM2-p53 pathways. 	XL-MS of 5S RNP preribosomal complexes	5S RNP, MDM2, cryo-EM	The 5S ribonucleoprotein (RNP) is assembled from its three components (5S rRNA, Rpl5/uL18 and Rpl11/uL5) before being incorporated into the pre-60S subunit. However, when ribosome synthesis is disturbed, a free 5S RNP can enter the MDM2-p53 pathway to regulate cell cycle and apoptotic signaling. Here we reconstitute and determine the cryo-electron microscopy structure of the conserved hexameric 5S RNP with fungal or human factors. This reveals how the nascent 5S rRNA associates with the initial nuclear import complex Syo1-uL18-uL5 and, upon further recruitment of the nucleolar factors Rpf2 and Rrs1, develops into the 5S RNP precursor that can assemble into the pre-ribosome. In addition, we elucidate the structure of another 5S RNP intermediate, carrying the human ubiquitin ligase Mdm2, which unravels how this enzyme can be sequestered from its target substrate p53. Our data provide molecular insight into how the 5S RNP can mediate between ribosome biogenesis and cell proliferation.
PXD043963	37292756	Native-state proteomics of Parvalbumin interneurons identifies novel molecular signatures and metabolic vulnerabilities to early Alzheimer's disease pathology. 	Native-state proteomics of Parvalbumin interneurons identifies novel molecular signatures and metabolic vulnerabilities to early Alzheimer's disease pathology	Alzheimer's disease, Parvalbumin interneurons	One of the earliest pathophysiological perturbations in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) may arise from dysfunction of fast-spiking parvalbumin (PV) interneurons (PV-INs). Defining early protein-level (proteomic) alterations in PV-INs can provide key biological and translationally relevant insights. Here, we use cell-type-specific in vivo biotinylation of proteins (CIBOP) coupled with mass spectrometry to obtain native-state proteomes of PV interneurons. PV-INs exhibited proteomic signatures of high metabolic, mitochondrial, and translational activity, with over-representation of causally linked AD genetic risk factors. Analyses of bulk brain proteomes indicated strong correlations between PV-IN proteins with cognitive decline in humans, and with progressive neuropathology in humans and mouse models of Abeta pathology. Furthermore, PV-IN-specific proteomes revealed unique signatures of increased mitochondrial and metabolic proteins, but decreased synaptic and mTOR signaling proteins in response to early Abeta pathology. PV-specific changes were not apparent in whole-brain proteomes. These findings showcase the first native state PV-IN proteomes in mammalian brain, revealing a molecular basis for their unique vulnerabilities in AD.
PXD040147	37293069	Defining distinct RNA-protein interactomes of SARS-CoV-2 genomic and subgenomic RNAs. 	Identification of proteins differentially associated with SARS CoV-2 subgenomic RNAs	N RNA, ORF8 RNA, RNA binding proteins, RNA metabolism, RNA-protein interactions, S RNA, SARS CoV-2, gRNA, hybridization, interactome, viral	Host RNA binding proteins recognize viral RNA and play key roles in virus replication and antiviral defense mechanisms. SARS-CoV-2 generates a series of tiered subgenomic RNAs (sgRNAs), each encoding distinct viral protein(s) that regulate different aspects of viral replication. Here, for the first time, we demonstrate the successful isolation of SARS-CoV-2 genomic RNA and three distinct sgRNAs (N, S, and ORF8) from a single population of infected cells and characterize their protein interactomes. Over 500 protein interactors (including 260 previously unknown) were identified as associated with one or more target RNA at either of two time points. These included protein interactors unique to a single RNA pool and others present in multiple pools, highlighting our ability to discriminate between distinct viral RNA interactomes despite high sequence similarity. The interactomes indicated viral associations with cell response pathways including regulation of cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granules and posttranscriptional gene silencing. We validated the significance of five protein interactors predicted to exhibit antiviral activity (APOBEC3F, TRIM71, PPP1CC, LIN28B, and MSI2) using siRNA knockdowns, with each knockdown yielding increases in viral production. This study describes new technology for studying SARS-CoV-2 and reveals a wealth of new viral RNA-associated host factors of potential functional significance to infection.
PXD037529	37294917	Lipid nanoparticles allow efficient and harmless ex vivo gene editing of human hematopoietic cells. 	Lipid nanoparticles improves ex vivo gene editing of human hematopoietic cells	Hunan, hematopoietic cells, nanoparticles	Ex vivo gene editing in T cells and hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) holds promise for treating diseases. Gene editing encompasses the delivery of a programmable editor RNA or ribonucleoprotein, often achieved ex vivo via electroporation, and when aiming for homology-driven correction of a DNA template, often provided by viral vectors together with a nuclease editor. Although HSPCs activate a robust p53-dependent DNA damage response upon nuclease-based editing, the responses triggered in T cells remain poorly characterized. Here, we performed comprehensive multiomics analyses and found that electroporation is the main culprit of cytotoxicity in T cells, causing death and cell cycle delay, perturbing metabolism, and inducing an inflammatory response. Nuclease RNA delivery using lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) nearly abolished cell death and ameliorated cell growth, improving tolerance to the procedure and yielding a higher number of edited cells compared with using electroporation. Transient transcriptomic changes upon LNP treatment were mostly caused by cellular loading with exogenous cholesterol, whose potentially detrimental impact could be overcome by limiting exposure. Notably, LNP-based HSPC editing dampened p53 pathway induction and supported higher clonogenic activity and similar or higher reconstitution by long-term repopulating HSPCs compared with electroporation, reaching comparable editing efficiencies. Overall, LNPs may allow efficient and harmless ex vivo gene editing in hematopoietic cells for the treatment of human diseases.
PXD040613	37294931	S-Palmitoylation during Retinoic Acid-Induced Neuronal Differentiation of SH-SY5Y Neuroblastoma Cells. 	S-palmitoylation during retinoic acid induced neuronal differentiation of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells	Protein S-palmitoylation, SH-SY5Y differentiation, acyl-biotin exchange, lipid metabolic labelling, mass spectrometry-based proteomics, retinoic acid	S-Palmitoylation is the covalent attachment of C14:0-C22:0 fatty acids (mainly C16:0 palmitate) to cysteines via thioester bonds. This lipid modification is highly abundant in neurons, where it plays a role in neuronal development and is implicated in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease. The knowledge of S-palmitoylation in neurodevelopment is limited due to technological challenges in analyzing this highly hydrophobic protein modification. Here, we used two orthogonal methods, acyl-biotin exchange (ABE) and lipid metabolic labeling (LML), to identify S-palmitoylated proteins and sites during retinoic acid-induced neuronal differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells. We identified 2002 putative S-palmitoylated proteins in total, of which 650 were found with both methods. Significant changes in the abundance of S-palmitoylated proteins were detected, in particular for several processes and protein classes that are known to be important for neuronal differentiation, which include proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase receptor (RET) signal transduction, SNARE protein-mediated exocytosis, and neural cell adhesion molecules. Overall, S-palmitoylation profiling by employing ABE and LML in parallel during RA-induced differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells revealed a subset of high confidence bona fide S-palmitoylated proteins and suggested an important role for S-palmitoylation in neuronal differentiation.
PXD040875	37295430	The Hsp90 molecular chaperone governs client proteins by targeting intrinsically disordered regions. 	The Hsp90 molecular chaperone governs client proteins by targeting intrinsically disordered regions	BPA, Crosslinking, Hsp90, Interactome	Molecular chaperones govern proteome health to support cell homeostasis. An essential eukaryotic component of the chaperone system is Hsp90. Using a chemical-biology approach, we characterized the features driving the Hsp90 physical interactome. We found that Hsp90 associated with ~20% of the yeast proteome using its three domains to preferentially target intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) of client proteins. Hsp90 selectively utilized an IDR to regulate client activity as well as maintained IDR-protein health by preventing the transition to stress granules or P-bodies at physiological temperatures. We also discovered that Hsp90 controls the fidelity of ribosome initiation that triggers a heat shock response when disrupted. Our study provides insights into how this abundant molecular chaperone supports a dynamic and healthy native protein landscape.
PXD041096	37295431	Mechanism of ribosome-associated mRNA degradation during tubulin autoregulation. 	Mechanism of ribosome-associated mRNA degradation during tubulin autoregulation	Human LC-MS/MS, Orbitrap Eclipse, Q Exactive Plus	Microtubules play crucial roles in cellular architecture, intracellular transport, and mitosis. The availability of free tubulin subunits affects polymerization dynamics and microtubule function. When cells sense excess free tubulin, they trigger degradation of the encoding mRNAs, which requires recognition of the nascent polypeptide by the tubulin-specific ribosome-binding factor TTC5. How TTC5 initiates the decay of tubulin mRNAs is unknown. Here, our biochemical and structural analysis reveals that TTC5 recruits the poorly studied protein SCAPER to the ribosome. SCAPER, in turn, engages the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex through its CNOT11 subunit to trigger tubulin mRNA decay. SCAPER mutants that cause intellectual disability and retinitis pigmentosa in humans are impaired in CCR4-NOT recruitment, tubulin mRNA degradation, and microtubule-dependent chromosome segregation. Our findings demonstrate how recognition of a nascent polypeptide on the ribosome is physically linked to mRNA decay factors via a relay of protein-protein interactions, providing a paradigm for specificity in cytoplasmic gene regulation.
PXD041913	37295717	A Peptidisc-Based Survey of the Plasma Membrane Proteome of a Mammalian Cell. 	A Peptidisc-based Survey of the Plasma Membrane Proteome of a Mammalian Cell	HeLa, Membrane Proteins, Panc-1 cells, Peptidiscs, hPSC	Membrane proteins play critical roles at the cell surface and their misfunction is a hallmark of many human diseases. A precise evaluation of the plasma membrane proteome is therefore essential for cell biology and for discovering novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets. However, the low abundance of this proteome relative to soluble proteins makes it difficult to characterize, even with the most advanced proteomics technologies. Here, we apply the peptidisc membrane mimetic to purify the cell membrane proteome. Using the HeLa cell line as a reference, we capture 500 different integral membrane proteins, with half annotated to the plasma membrane. Notably, the peptidisc library is enriched with several ABC, SLC, GPCR, CD, and cell adhesion molecules that generally exist at low to very low copy numbers in the cell. We extend the method to compare two pancreatic cell lines, Panc-1 and hPSC. Here we observe a striking difference in the relative abundance of the cell surface cancer markers L1CAM, ANPEP, ITGB4, and CD70. We also identify two novel SLC transporters, SLC30A1 and SLC12A7, that are highly present in the Panc-1 cell only. The peptidisc library thus emerges as an effective way to survey and compare the membrane proteome of mammalian cells. Furthermore, since the method stabilizes membrane proteins in a water-soluble state, members of the library, here SLC12A7, can be specifically isolated.
PXD037429	37296165	Directed natural evolution generates a next-generation oncolytic virus with a high potency and safety profile. 	Directed natural evolution generates a next-generation oncolytic virus with a high potency and safety profile for multiple solid tumors	oncolytic virus M1	Oncolytic viruses (OVs) represent a type of encouraging multi-mechanistic drug for the treatment of cancer. However, attenuation of virulence, which is generally required for the development of OVs based on pathogenic viral backbones, is frequently accompanied by a compromised killing effect on tumor cells. By exploiting the property of viruses to evolve and adapt in cancer cells, we perform directed natural evolution on refractory colorectal cancer cell HCT-116 and generate a next-generation oncolytic virus M1 (NGOVM) with an increase in the oncolytic effect of up to 9690-fold. The NGOVM has a broader antitumor spectrum and a more robust oncolytic effect in a range of solid tumors. Mechanistically, two critical mutations are identified in the E2 and nsP3 genes, which accelerate the entry of M1 virus by increasing its binding to the Mxra8 receptor and antagonize antiviral responses by inhibiting the activation of PKR and STAT1 in tumor cells, respectively. Importantly, the NGOVM is well tolerated in both rodents and nonhuman primates. This study implies that directed natural evolution is a generalizable approach for developing next-generation OVs with an expanded scope of application and high safety.
PXD039713	37296637	Proteasomes of Autophagy-Deficient Cells Exhibit Alterations in Regulatory Proteins and a Marked Reduction in Activity. 	Proteasomes of autophagy-deficient cells exhibit changes in associated regulatory proteins in conjunction with a dramatic decrease in activity	ATG16, Autophagy, Dictyostelium, ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS)	Autophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system are the two major processes for the clearance and recycling of proteins and organelles in eukaryotic cells. Evidence is accumulating that there is extensive crosstalk between the two pathways, but the underlying mechanisms are still unclear. We previously found that autophagy 9 (ATG9) and 16 (ATG16) proteins are crucial for full proteasomal activity in the unicellular amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. In comparison to AX2 wild-type cells, ATG9(-)and ATG16(-) cells displayed a 60%, and ATG9(-)/16(-) cells a 90%, decrease in proteasomal activity. Mutant cells also showed a significant increase in poly-ubiquitinated proteins and contained large ubiquitin-positive protein aggregates. Here, we focus on possible reasons for these results. Reanalysis of published tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomic results of AX2, ATG9(-), ATG16(-), and ATG9(-)/16(-) cells revealed no change in the abundance of proteasomal subunits. To identify possible differences in proteasome-associated proteins, we generated AX2 wild-type and ATG16(-) cells expressing the 20S proteasomal subunit PSMA4 as GFP-tagged fusion protein, and performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments followed by mass spectrometric analysis. The results revealed no significant differences in the abundance of proteasomes between the two strains. However, we found enrichment as well as depletion of proteasomal regulators and differences in the ubiquitination of associated proteins for ATG16(-), as compared to AX2 cells. Recently, proteaphagy has been described as a means to replace non-functional proteasomes. We propose that autophagy-deficient D. discoideum mutants suffer from inefficient proteaphagy, which results in the accumulation of modified, less-active, and also of inactive, proteasomes. As a consequence, these cells exhibit a dramatic decrease in proteasomal activity and deranged protein homeostasis.
PXD042942	37297007	Long-Chain Acyl Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase, a Key Player in Metabolic Rewiring/Invasiveness in Experimental Tumors and Human Mesothelioma Cell Lines. 	Long-Chain Acyl Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase, a Key Player in Metabolic Rewiring/Invasiveness in Experimental Tumors and Human Mesothelioma Cell Lines	biomarker, fatty acid beta-oxidation, long-chain specific acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, malignant mesothelioma, metabolism, mitochondria	Cross-species investigations of cancer invasiveness are a new approach that has already identified new biomarkers which are potentially useful for improving tumor diagnosis and prognosis in clinical medicine and veterinary science. In this study, we combined proteomic analysis of four experimental rat malignant mesothelioma (MM) tumors with analysis of ten patient-derived cell lines to identify common features associated with mitochondrial proteome rewiring. A comparison of significant abundance changes between invasive and non-invasive rat tumors gave a list of 433 proteins, including 26 proteins reported to be exclusively located in mitochondria. Next, we analyzed the differential expression of genes encoding the mitochondrial proteins of interest in five primary epithelioid and five primary sarcomatoid human MM cell lines; the most impressive increase was observed in the expression of the long-chain acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenase (ACADL). To evaluate the role of this enzyme in migration/invasiveness, two epithelioid and two sarcomatoid human MM cell lines derived from patients with the highest and lowest overall survival were studied. Interestingly, sarcomatoid vs. epithelioid cell lines were characterized by higher migration and fatty oxidation rates, in agreement with ACADL findings. These results suggest that evaluating mitochondrial proteins in MM specimens might identify tumors with higher invasiveness. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the dataset identifier PXD042942.
PXD018045	37298114	Frankia alni Carbonic Anhydrase Regulates Cytoplasmic pH of Nitrogen-Fixing Vesicles. 	Shotgun proteomics of Frankia alni grown on fumarate	Frankia, bacteria, molecular phenotyping, nitrogen fixation	A phyloprofile of Frankia genomes was carried out to identify those genes present in symbiotic strains of clusters 1, 1c, 2 and 3 and absent in non-infective strains of cluster 4. At a threshold of 50% AA identity, 108 genes were retrieved. Among these were known symbiosis-associated genes such as nif (nitrogenase), and genes which are not know as symbiosis-associated genes such as can (carbonic anhydrase, CAN). The role of CAN, which supplies carbonate ions necessary for carboxylases and acidifies the cytoplasm, was thus analyzed by staining cells with pH-responsive dyes; assaying for CO2 levels in N-fixing propionate-fed cells (that require a propionate-CoA carboxylase to yield succinate-CoA), fumarate-fed cells and N-replete propionate-fed cells; conducting proteomics on N-fixing fumarate and propionate-fed cells and direct measurement of organic acids in nodules and in roots. The interiors of both in vitro and nodular vesicles were found to be at a lower pH than that of hyphae. CO2 levels in N2-fixing propionate-fed cultures were lower than in N-replete ones. Proteomics of propionate-fed cells showed carbamoyl-phosphate synthase (CPS) as the most overabundant enzyme relative to fumarate-fed cells. CPS combines carbonate and ammonium in the first step of the citrulline pathway, something which would help manage acidity and NH4(+). Nodules were found to have sizeable amounts of pyruvate and acetate in addition to TCA intermediates. This points to CAN reducing the vesicles' pH to prevent the escape of NH3 and to control ammonium assimilation by GS and GOGAT, two enzymes that work in different ways in vesicles and hyphae. Genes with related functions (carboxylases, biotin operon and citrulline-aspartate ligase) appear to have undergone decay in non-symbiotic lineages.
PXD022359	37298448	IPS (In-Plant System) Delivery of Double-Stranded Vitellogenin and Vitellogenin receptor via Hydroponics for Pest Control in Diaphorina citri Kuwayama (Hemiptera: Psyllidae). 	Oviposition control genes and expression of functional interference in D.citri	D.citri, DIA, transcriptome	Diaphorina citri, a vector of citrus huanglongbing (HLB) disease, frequently leads to HLB outbreaks and reduces Rutaceae crop production. Recent studies have investigated the effects of RNA interference (RNAi) targeting the Vitellogenin (Vg4) and Vitellogenin receptor (VgR) genes, which are involved in egg formation in this pest, providing a theoretical foundation for developing new strategies to manage D. citri populations. This study presents RNAi methods for Vg4 and VgR gene expression interference and reveals that dsVgR is more effective than dsVg4 against D. citri. We demonstrated that dsVg4 and dsVgR persisted for 3-6 days in Murraya odorifera shoots when delivered via the in-plant system (IPS) and effectively interfered with Vg4 and VgR gene expression. Following Vg4 and VgR gene expression interference, egg length and width in the interference group were significantly smaller than those in the negative control group during the 10-30-day development stages. Additionally, the proportion of mature ovarian eggs in the interference group was significantly lower than that in the negative control group at the 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30-day developmental stages. DsVgR notably suppresses oviposition in D. citri, with fecundity decreasing by 60-70%. These results provide a theoretical basis for controlling D. citri using RNAi to mitigate the spread of HLB disease.
PXD039139	37298463	Fangs in the Ghats: Preclinical Insights into the Medical Importance of Pit Vipers from the Western Ghats. 	Fangs in the ghats: preclinical insights into the medical importance of endemic pit vipers from the Western Ghats	Craspedocephalus gramineus, Craspedocephalus malabaricus, Hypnale hypnale, preclinical research	The socioeconomic impact of snakebites in India is largely attributed to a subset of snake species commonly known as the 'big four'. However, envenoming by a range of other clinically important yet neglected snakes, a.k.a. the 'neglected many', also adds to this burden. The current approach of treating bites from these snakes with the 'big four' polyvalent antivenom is ineffective. While the medical significance of various species of cobras, saw-scaled vipers, and kraits is well-established, the clinical impact of pit vipers from regions such as the Western Ghats, northeastern India, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands remains poorly understood. Amongst the many species of snakes found in the Western Ghats, the hump-nosed (Hypnale hypnale), Malabar (Craspedocephalus malabaricus), and bamboo (Craspedocephalus gramineus) pit vipers can potentially inflict severe envenoming. To evaluate the severity of toxicity inflicted by these snakes, we characterised their venom composition, biochemical and pharmacological activities, and toxicity- and morbidity-inducing potentials, including their ability to damage kidneys. Our findings highlight the therapeutic inadequacies of the Indian and Sri Lankan polyvalent antivenoms in neutralising the local and systemic toxicity resulting from pit viper envenomings.
PXD038821	37298552	Endogenous TOM20 Proximity Labeling: A Swiss-Knife for the Study of Mitochondrial Proteins in Human Cells. 	Endogenous TOM20 proximity labelling: a Swiss-knife for the study of mitochondrial proteins in human cells	BioID, Co-translational import, Mitochondria, Protein identification	Biotin-based proximity labeling approaches, such as BioID, have demonstrated their use for the study of mitochondria proteomes in living cells. The use of genetically engineered BioID cell lines enables the detailed characterization of poorly characterized processes such as mitochondrial co-translational import. In this process, translation is coupled to the translocation of the mitochondrial proteins, alleviating the energy cost typically associated with the post-translational import relying on chaperone systems. However, the mechanisms are still unclear with only few actors identified but none that have been described in mammals yet. We thus profiled the TOM20 proxisome using BioID, assuming that some of the identified proteins could be molecular actors of the co-translational import in human cells. The obtained results showed a high enrichment of RNA binding proteins close to the TOM complex. However, for the few selected candidates, we could not demonstrate a role in the mitochondrial co-translational import process. Nonetheless, we were able to demonstrate additional uses of our BioID cell line. Indeed, the experimental approach used in this study is thus proposed for the identification of mitochondrial co-translational import effectors and for the monitoring of protein entry inside mitochondria with a potential application in the prediction of mitochondrial protein half-life.
PXD038462	37298580	Quantitative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiling of Lung Tissues from Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Rat Model. 	Quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of lung and heart tissues from Pulmonary arterial hypertension model rats	phospoproteomics, pulmonary arterial hypertension	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare but fatal disease characterized by elevated pulmonary vascular resistance and increased pressure in the distal pulmonary arteries. Systematic analysis of the proteins and pathways involved in the progression of PAH is crucial for understanding the underlying molecular mechanism. In this study, we performed tandem mass tags (TMT)-based relative quantitative proteomic profiling of lung tissues from rats treated with monocrotaline (MCT) for 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks. A total of 6759 proteins were quantified, among which 2660 proteins exhibited significant changes (p-value < 0.05, fold change < 0.83 or >1.2). Notably, these changes included several known PAH-related proteins, such as Retnla (resistin-like alpha) and arginase-1. Furthermore, the expression of potential PAH-related proteins, including Aurora kinase B and Cyclin-A2, was verified via Western blot analysis. In addition, we performed quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis on the lungs from MCT-induced PAH rats and identified 1412 upregulated phosphopeptides and 390 downregulated phosphopeptides. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed significant involvement of pathways such as complement and coagulation cascades and the signaling pathway of vascular smooth muscle contraction. Overall, this comprehensive analysis of proteins and phosphoproteins involved in the development and progression of PAH in lung tissues provides valuable insights for the development of potential diagnostic and treatment targets for PAH.
PXD041520	37298676	Synthesis of Flavonol-Bearing Probes for Chemoproteomic and Bioinformatic Analyses of Asteraceae Petals in Search of Novel Flavonoid Enzymes. 	Synthesis of flavonol-bearing probes and chemical proteomic analysis of Asteraceae petals in search of flavonoid enzymes	natural products  plant polyphenols  proteomics  bioinformatics  biosynthesis of higher hydroxylated flavonols	This study aimed at searching for the enzymes that are responsible for the higher hydroxylation of flavonols serving as UV-honey guides for pollinating insects on the petals of Asteraceae flowers. To achieve this aim, an affinity-based chemical proteomic approach was developed by relying on the use of quercetin-bearing biotinylated probes, which were thus designed and synthesized to selectively and covalently capture relevant flavonoid enzymes. Proteomic and bioinformatic analyses of proteins captured from petal microsomes of two Asteraceae species (Rudbeckia hirta and Tagetes erecta) revealed the presence of two flavonol 6-hydroxylases and several additional not fully characterized proteins as candidates for the identification of novel flavonol 8-hydroxylases, as well as relevant flavonol methyl- and glycosyltransferases. Generally speaking, this substrate-based proteome profiling methodology constitutes a powerful tool for the search for unknown (flavonoid) enzymes in plant protein extracts.
PXD038367	37301900	Generalized precursor prediction boosts identification rates and accuracy in mass spectrometry based proteomics. 	Training data for generalized peakgroup scoring models	dia, machine learning, software	Data independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) has recently emerged as an important method for the identification of blood-based biomarkers. However, the large search space required to identify novel biomarkers from the plasma proteome can introduce a high rate of false positives that compromise the accuracy of false discovery rates (FDR) using existing validation methods. We developed a generalized precursor scoring (GPS) method trained on 2.75 million precursors that can confidently control FDR while increasing the number of identified proteins in DIA-MS independent of the search space. We demonstrate how GPS can generalize to new data, increase protein identification rates, and increase the overall quantitative accuracy. Finally, we apply GPS to the identification of blood-based biomarkers and identify a panel of proteins that are highly accurate in discriminating between subphenotypes of septic acute kidney injury from undepleted plasma to showcase the utility of GPS in discovery DIA-MS proteomics.
PXD012190	37303779	Daylight-driven carbon exchange through a vertically structured microbial community. 	Daylight-driven carbon exchange through a vertically structured microbial community	Stable isotope labeling, carbon cycling, heterotrophs, metaproteomics, microbial communities, phototrophs	Interactions between autotrophs and heterotrophs are central to carbon (C) exchange across trophic levels in essentially all ecosystems and metabolite exchange is a frequent mechanism for distributing C within spatially structured ecosystems. Yet, despite the importance of C exchange, the timescales at which fixed C is transferred in microbial communities is poorly understood. We employed a stable isotope tracer combined with spatially resolved isotope analysis to quantify photoautotrophic uptake of bicarbonate and track subsequent exchanges across a vertical depth gradient in a stratified microbial mat over a light-driven diel cycle. We observed that C mobility, both across the vertical strata and between taxa, was highest during periods of active photoautotrophy. Parallel experiments with (13)C-labeled organic substrates (acetate and glucose) showed comparably less exchange of C within the mat. Metabolite analysis showed rapid incorporation of (13)C into molecules that can both comprise a portion of the extracellular polymeric substances in the system and serve to transport C between photoautotrophs and heterotrophs. Stable isotope proteomic analysis revealed rapid C exchange between cyanobacterial and associated heterotrophic community members during the day with decreased exchange at night. We observed strong diel control on the spatial exchange of freshly fixed C within tightly interacting mat communities suggesting a rapid redistribution, both spatially and taxonomically, primarily during daylight periods.
PXD029305	37305783	Host cell protein quantification workflow using optimized standards combined with data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. 	Host Cell Protein Quantification Workflow Using Optimized Standards combined with Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry	HCP Profiler, data validation., data-independent acquisition (DIA), host cell proteins (HCPs), protein quantification	Monitoring of host cell proteins (HCPs) during the manufacturing of monoclonal antibodies (mAb) has become a critical requirement to provide effective and safe drug products. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are still the gold standard methods for the quantification of protein impurities. However, this technique has several limitations and does, among others, not enable the precise identification of proteins. In this context, mass spectrometry (MS) became an alternative and orthogonal method that delivers qualitative and quantitative information on all identified HCPs. However, in order to be routinely implemented in biopharmaceutical companies, liquid chromatography-MS based methods still need to be standardized to provide highest sensitivity and robust and accurate quantification. Here, we present a promising MS-based analytical workflow coupling the use of an innovative quantification standard, the HCP Profiler solution, with a spectral library-based data-independent acquisition (DIA) method and strict data validation criteria. The performances of the HCP Profiler solution were compared to more conventional standard protein spikes and the DIA approach was benchmarked against a classical data-dependent acquisition on a series of samples produced at various stages of the manufacturing process. While we also explored spectral library-free DIA interpretation, the spectral library-based approach still showed highest accuracy and reproducibility (coefficients of variation < 10%) with a sensitivity down to the sub-ng/mg mAb level. Thus, this workflow is today mature to be used as a robust and straightforward method to support mAb manufacturing process developments and drug products quality control.
PXD035345	37305927	BRCA1/BARD1 intrinsically disordered regions facilitate chromatin recruitment and ubiquitylation. 	BRCA1/BARD1 intrinsically disordered regions facilitate chromatin recruitment and ubiquitylation	BARD1, BRCA1, Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry, H2A, Kojak, ProXL, XL-MS, cancer, nucleosome, tumor, ubiquitin ligase	BRCA1/BARD1 is a tumor suppressor E3 ubiquitin (Ub) ligase with roles in DNA damage repair and in transcriptional regulation. BRCA1/BARD1 RING domains interact with nucleosomes to facilitate mono-ubiquitylation of distinct residues on the C-terminal tail of histone H2A. These enzymatic domains constitute a small fraction of the heterodimer, raising the possibility of functional chromatin interactions involving other regions such as the BARD1 C-terminal domains that bind nucleosomes containing the DNA damage signal H2A K15-Ub and H4 K20me0, or portions of the expansive intrinsically disordered regions found in both subunits. Herein, we reveal novel interactions that support robust H2A ubiquitylation activity mediated through a high-affinity, intrinsically disordered DNA-binding region of BARD1. These interactions support BRCA1/BARD1 recruitment to chromatin and sites of DNA damage in cells and contribute to their survival. We also reveal distinct BRCA1/BARD1 complexes that depend on the presence of H2A K15-Ub, including a complex where a single BARD1 subunit spans adjacent nucleosome units. Our findings identify an extensive network of multivalent BARD1-nucleosome interactions that serve as a platform for BRCA1/BARD1-associated functions on chromatin.
PXD040748	37306041	MIRO-1 interacts with VDAC-1 to regulate mitochondrial membrane potential in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	MIRO-1 interacts with VDAC-1 to regulate mitochondrial membrane potential in Caenorhabditis elegans	C. elegans, miro-1, mitochondrial membrane potential	Precise regulation of mitochondrial fusion and fission is essential for cellular activity and animal development. Imbalances between these processes can lead to fragmentation and loss of normal membrane potential in individual mitochondria. In this study, we show that MIRO-1 is stochastically elevated in individual fragmented mitochondria and is required for maintaining mitochondrial membrane potential. We further observe a higher level of membrane potential in fragmented mitochondria in fzo-1 mutants and wounded animals. Moreover, MIRO-1 interacts with VDAC-1, a crucial mitochondrial ion channel located in the outer mitochondrial membrane, and this interaction depends on the residues E473 of MIRO-1 and K163 of VDAC-1. The E473G point mutation disrupts their interaction, resulting in a reduction of the mitochondrial membrane potential. Our findings suggest that MIRO-1 regulates membrane potential and maintains mitochondrial activity and animal health by interacting with VDAC-1. This study provides insight into the mechanisms underlying the stochastic maintenance of membrane potential in fragmented mitochondria.
PXD038493	37306406	Proteomics of novel induced pluripotent stem cell-derived vascular endothelial cells reveal extensive similarity with an immortalized human endothelial cell line. 	Proteomics of novel iPSC-derived vascular endothelial cells reveal extensive similarity with an immortalized human endothelial cell line	acetylation, endothelial cells, iPSC, methylation, phosphorylation	The vascular endothelium constitutes the inner lining of the blood vessel, and malfunction and injuries of the endothelium can cause cardiovascular diseases as well as other diseases including stroke, tumor growth, and chronic kidney failure. Generation of effective sources to replace injured endothelial cells (ECs) could have significant clinical impact, and somatic cell sources like peripheral or cord blood cannot credibly supply enough endothelial cell progenitors for multitude of treatments. Pluripotent stem cells are a promising source for a reliable EC supply, which have the potential to restore tissue function and treat vascular diseases. We have developed methods to differentiate induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) efficiently and robustly across multiple iPSC lines into nontissue-specific pan vascular ECs (iECs) with high purity. These iECs present with canonical endothelial cell markers and exhibit measures of endothelial cell functionality with the uptake of Dil fluorescent dye-labeled acetylated low-density lipoprotein (Dil-Ac-LDL) and tube formation. Using proteomic analysis, we revealed that the iECs are more proteomically similar to established human umbilical vein ECs (HUVECs) than to iPSCs. Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) were most shared between HUVECs and iECs, and potential targets for increasing the proteomic similarity of iECs to HUVECs were identified. Here we demonstrate an efficient robust method to differentiate iPSCs into functional ECs, and for the first time provide a comprehensive protein expression profile of iECs, which indicates their similarities with a widely used immortalized HUVECs, allowing for further mechanistic studies of EC development, signaling, and metabolism for future regenerative applications.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We have developed methods to differentiate induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) across multiple iPSC lines into nontissue-specific pan vascular ECs (iECs) and demonstrated the proteomic similarity of these cells to a widely used endothelial cell line (HUVECs). We also identified posttranslational modifications and targets for increasing the proteomic similarity of iECs to HUVECs. In the future, iECs can be used to study EC development, signaling, and metabolism for future regenerative applications.
PXD036649	37307416	Studying Protein-Ligand Interactions by Protein Denaturation and Quantitative Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Analysis of bilirubin-induced bovine serum albumin stability using protein denaturation and quantitative cross-linking mass spectrometry	Quantitative cross-linking, protein stability	Recently, several mass spectrometry methods have utilized protein structural stability for the quantitative study of protein-ligand engagement. These protein-denaturation approaches, which include thermal proteome profiling (TPP) and stability of proteins from rates of oxidation (SPROX), evaluate ligand-induced denaturation susceptibility changes with a MS-based readout. The different techniques of bottom-up protein-denaturation methods each have their own advantages and challenges. Here, we report the combination of protein-denaturation principles with quantitative cross-linking mass spectrometry using isobaric quantitative protein interaction reporter technologies. This method enables the evaluation of ligand-induced protein engagement through analysis of cross-link relative ratios across chemical denaturation. As a proof of concept, we found ligand-stabilized cross-linked lysine pairs in well-studied bovine serum albumin and ligand bilirubin. These links map to the known binding sites Sudlow Site I and subdomain IB. We propose that protein denaturation and qXL-MS can be combined with similar peptide-level quantification approaches, like SPROX, to increase the coverage information profiled for facilitating protein-ligand engagement efforts.
PXD043285	37308476	AKT and MAPK signaling pathways in hippocampus reveals the pathogenesis of depression in four stress-induced models. 	Proteomic analysis of the four rat models of depression	depression model, hippocampus, rat	Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a highly heterogeneous psychiatric disorder. The pathogenesis of MDD remained unclear, and it may be associated with exposure to different stressors. Most previous studies have focused on molecular changes in a single stress-induced depression model, which limited the identification of the pathogenesis of MDD. The depressive-like behaviors were induced by four well-validated stress models in rats, including chronic unpredictable mild stress, learned helplessness stress, chronic restraint stress and social defeat stress. We applied proteomic and metabolomic to investigate molecular changes in the hippocampus of those four models and revealed 529 proteins and 98 metabolites. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis identified differentially regulated canonical pathways, and then we presented a schematic model that simulates AKT and MAPK signaling pathways network and their interactions and revealed the cascade reactions. Further, the western blot confirmed that p-AKT, p-ERK12, GluA1, p-MEK1, p-MEK2, p-P38, Syn1, and TrkB, which were changed in at least one depression model. Importantly, p-AKT, p-ERK12, p-MEK1 and p-P38 were identified as common alterations in four depression models. The molecular level changes caused by different stressors may be dramatically different, and even opposite, between four depression models. However, the different molecular alterations converge on a common AKT and MAPK molecular pathway. Further studies of these pathways could contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of depression, with the ultimate goal of helping to develop or select more effective treatment strategies for MDD.
PXD036748	37308520	Towards optimised extracellular vesicle proteomics from cerebrospinal fluid. 	Towards optimised extracellular vesicle proteomics from cerebrospinal fluid	cerebrospinal fluid, extracellular vesicles, ultrafiltration combined with size-exclusion chromatography	The proteomic profile of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can reveal novel biomarkers for diseases of the brain. Here, we validate an ultrafiltration combined with size-exclusion chromatography (UF-SEC) method for isolation of EVs from canine CSF and probe the effect of starting volume on the EV proteomics profile. First, we performed a literature review of CSF EV articles to define the current state of art, discovering a need for basic characterisation of CSF EVs. Secondly, we isolated EVs from CSF by UF-SEC and characterised the SEC fractions by protein amount, particle count, transmission electron microscopy, and immunoblotting. Data are presented as mean +/- standard deviation. Using proteomics, SEC fractions 3-5 were compared and enrichment of EV markers in fraction 3 was detected, whereas fractions 4-5 contained more apolipoproteins. Lastly, we compared starting volumes of pooled CSF (6 ml, 3 ml, 1 ml, and 0.5 ml) to evaluate the effect on the proteomic profile. Even with a 0.5 ml starting volume, 743 +/- 77 or 345 +/- 88 proteins were identified depending on whether 'matches between runs' was active in MaxQuant. The results confirm that UF-SEC effectively isolates CSF EVs and that EV proteomic analysis can be performed from 0.5 ml of canine CSF.
PXD038089	37308827	Orthogonal proteomics methods warrant the development of Duchenne muscular dystrophy biomarkers. 	Orthogonal proteomics methods warrants development of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy biomarkers	biomarker validation, duchenne muscular dystrophy, targeted proteomics	BACKGROUND: Molecular components in blood, such as proteins, are used as biomarkers to detect or predict disease states, guide clinical interventions and aid in the development of therapies. While multiplexing proteomics methods promote discovery of such biomarkers, their translation to clinical use is difficult due to the lack of substantial evidence regarding their reliability as quantifiable indicators of disease state or outcome. To overcome this challenge, a novel orthogonal strategy was developed and used to assess the reliability of biomarkers and analytically corroborate already identified serum biomarkers for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). DMD is a monogenic incurable disease characterized by progressive muscle damage that currently lacks reliable and specific disease monitoring tools. METHODS: Two technological platforms are used to detect and quantify the biomarkers in 72 longitudinally collected serum samples from DMD patients at 3 to 5 timepoints. Quantification of the biomarkers is achieved by detection of the same biomarker fragment either through interaction with validated antibodies in immuno-assays or through quantification of peptides by Parallel Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometry assay (PRM-MS). RESULTS: Five, out of ten biomarkers previously identified by affinity-based proteomics methods, were confirmed to be associated with DMD using the mass spectrometry-based method. Two biomarkers, carbonic anhydrase III and lactate dehydrogenase B, were quantified with two independent methods, sandwich immunoassays and PRM-MS, with Pearson correlations of 0.92 and 0.946 respectively. The median concentrations of CA3 and LDHB in DMD patients was elevated in comparison to those in healthy individuals by 35- and 3-fold, respectively. Levels of CA3 vary between 10.26 and 0.36 ng/ml in DMD patients whereas those of LDHB vary between 15.1 and 0.8 ng/ml. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that orthogonal assays can be used to assess the analytical reliability of biomarker quantification assays, providing a means to facilitate the translation of biomarkers to clinical practice. This strategy also warrants the development of the most relevant biomarkers, markers that can be reliably quantified with different proteomics methods.
PXD036853	37309728	Global analysis of lysine acetylation in the brain cortex of K18-hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV-2. 	Global Analysis of Lysine Acetylation in the Brain Cortex of K18-hACE2 Mice Infected with  SARS-CoV-2	Brain cortex, K18-hACE2, Lysine acetylation, SARS-CoV-2	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has infected hundreds of millions of people all over the world and thus threatens human life. Clinical evidence shows that SARS-CoV-2 infection can cause several neurological consequences, but the existing antiviral drugs and vaccines have failed to stop its spread. Therefore, an understanding of the response to SARS-CoV-2 infection of hosts is vital to find a resultful therapy. Here, we employed a K18-hACE2 mouse infection model and LC-MS/MS to systematically evaluate the acetylomes of brain cortexes in the presence and absence of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Using a label-free strategy, 3829 lysine acetylation (Kac) sites in 1735 histone and nonhistone proteins were identified. Bioinformatics analyses indicated that SARS-CoV-2 infection might lead to neurological consequences via acetylation or deacetylation of important proteins. According to a previous study, we found 26 SARS-CoV-2 proteins interacted with 61 differentially expressed acetylated proteins with high confidence and identified one acetylated SARS-CoV-2 protein nucleocapsid phosphoprotein. We greatly expanded the known set of acetylated proteins and provide the first report of the brain cortex acetylome in this model and thus a theoretical basis for future research on the pathological mechanisms and therapies of neurological consequences after SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD038550	37309887	A unique mRNA decapping complex in trypanosomes. 	A unique mRNA decapping complex in trypanosomes	ALPH1, ApaH-like phosphatase, Trypanosoma, XRNA, exoribonuclease, mRNA decapping, mRNA decay	Removal of the mRNA 5' cap primes transcripts for degradation and is central for regulating gene expression in eukaryotes. The canonical decapping enzyme Dcp2 is stringently controlled by assembly into a dynamic multi-protein complex together with the 5'-3'exoribonuclease Xrn1. Kinetoplastida lack Dcp2 orthologues but instead rely on the ApaH-like phosphatase ALPH1 for decapping. ALPH1 is composed of a catalytic domain flanked by C- and N-terminal extensions. We show that T. brucei ALPH1 is dimeric in vitro and functions within a complex composed of the trypanosome Xrn1 ortholog XRNA and four proteins unique to Kinetoplastida, including two RNA-binding proteins and a CMGC-family protein kinase. All ALPH1-associated proteins share a unique and dynamic localization to a structure at the posterior pole of the cell, anterior to the microtubule plus ends. XRNA affinity capture in T. cruzi recapitulates this interaction network. The ALPH1 N-terminus is not required for viability in culture, but essential for posterior pole localization. The C-terminus, in contrast, is required for localization to all RNA granule types, as well as for dimerization and interactions with XRNA and the CMGC kinase, suggesting possible regulatory mechanisms. Most significantly, the trypanosome decapping complex has a unique composition, differentiating the process from opisthokonts.
PXD036905	37309898	SIRT1 regulates DNA damage signaling through the PP4 phosphatase complex. 	SIRT1 regulates DNA damage signaling through PP4 phosphatase complex	DNA damage response, H2AX, PP4 phosphatase complex, SIRT1, label free proteomics	The Sirtuin family of NAD+-dependent enzymes plays an important role in maintaining genome stability upon stress. Several mammalian Sirtuins have been linked directly or indirectly to the regulation of DNA damage during replication through Homologous recombination (HR). The role of one of them, SIRT1, is intriguing as it seems to have a general regulatory role in the DNA damage response (DDR) that has not yet been addressed. SIRT1-deficient cells show impaired DDR reflected in a decrease in repair capacity, increased genome instability and decreased levels of gammaH2AX. Here we unveil a close functional antagonism between SIRT1 and the PP4 phosphatase multiprotein complex in the regulation of the DDR. Upon DNA damage, SIRT1 interacts specifically with the catalytical subunit PP4c and promotes its inhibition by deacetylating the WH1 domain of the regulatory subunits PP4R3alpha/beta. This in turn regulates gammaH2AX and RPA2 phosphorylation, two key events in the signaling of DNA damage and repair by HR. We propose a mechanism whereby during stress, SIRT1 signaling ensures a global control of DNA damage signaling through PP4.
PXD038515	37310689	TurboID reveals the proxiomes of Chlamydomonas proteins involved in thylakoid biogenesis and stress response. 	TurboID reveals the interaction network of VESICLE-INDUCING PROTEIN IN PLASTIDS (VIPPs) in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii	APEX2, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, TurboID, VIPP1, VIPP2	In Chlamydomonas (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii), the VESICLE-INDUCING PROTEIN IN PLASTIDS 1 and 2 (VIPP1 and VIPP2) play roles in the sensing and coping with membrane stress and in thylakoid membrane biogenesis. To gain more insight into these processes, we aimed to identify proteins interacting with VIPP1/2 in the chloroplast and chose proximity labeling (PL) for this purpose. We used the transient interaction between the nucleotide exchange factor CHLOROPLAST GRPE HOMOLOG 1 (CGE1) and the stromal HEAT SHOCK PROTEIN 70B (HSP70B) as test system. While PL with APEX2 and BioID proved to be inefficient, TurboID resulted in substantial biotinylation in vivo. TurboID-mediated PL with VIPP1/2 as baits under ambient and H2O2 stress conditions confirmed known interactions of VIPP1 with VIPP2, HSP70B, and the CHLOROPLAST DNAJ HOMOLOG 2 (CDJ2). Proteins identified in the VIPP1/2 proxiomes can be grouped into proteins involved in the biogenesis of thylakoid membrane complexes and the regulation of photosynthetic electron transport, including PROTON GRADIENT REGULATION 5-LIKE 1 (PGRL1). A third group comprises 11 proteins of unknown function whose genes are upregulated under chloroplast stress conditions. We named them VIPP PROXIMITY LABELING (VPL). In reciprocal experiments, we confirmed VIPP1 in the proxiomes of VPL2 and PGRL1. Our results demonstrate the robustness of TurboID-mediated PL for studying protein interaction networks in the chloroplast of Chlamydomonas and pave the way for analyzing functions of VIPPs in thylakoid biogenesis and stress responses.
PXD042043	37311105	Differential Effects of Cocaine and Morphine on the Diurnal Regulation of the Mouse Nucleus Accumbens Proteome. 	Differential Effects of Cocaine and Morphine on the Diurnal Regulation of the Mouse Nucleus Accumbens Proteome	Circadian Rhythms, Cocaine, Morphine, Nucleus Accumbens	Substance use disorders are associated with disruptions in sleep and circadian rhythms that persist during abstinence and may contribute to relapse risk. Repeated use of substances such as psychostimulants and opioids may lead to significant alterations in molecular rhythms in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a brain region central to reward and motivation. Previous studies have identified rhythm alterations in the transcriptome of the NAc and other brain regions following the administration of psychostimulants or opioids. However, little is known about the impact of substance use on the diurnal rhythms of the proteome in the NAc. We used liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics, along with a data-independent acquisition analysis pipeline, to investigate the effects of cocaine or morphine administration on diurnal rhythms of proteome in the mouse NAc. Overall, our data reveal cocaine and morphine differentially alter diurnal rhythms of the proteome in the NAc, with largely independent differentially expressed proteins dependent on time-of-day. Pathways enriched from cocaine altered protein rhythms were primarily associated with glucocorticoid signaling and metabolism, whereas morphine was associated with neuroinflammation. Collectively, these findings are the first to characterize the diurnal regulation of the NAc proteome and demonstrate a novel relationship between the phase-dependent regulation of protein expression and the differential effects of cocaine and morphine on the NAc proteome. The proteomics data in this study are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042043.
PXD041336	37311461	An Epstein-Barr virus protein interaction map reveals NLRP3 inflammasome evasion via MAVS UFMylation. 	An Epstein-Barr Virus Protein Interaction Map Reveals NLRP3 Inflammasome Evasion Via MAVS UFMylation	Interleukin-1-beta, NLRP3 inflammasome, UFMylation, antiviral defense, gasdermin D, herpesvirus, herpesvirus replication, innate immunity, interactome, mitochondrial-derived vesicles, viral G-protein coupled receptor	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) causes infectious mononucleosis, triggers multiple sclerosis, and is associated with 200,000 cancers/year. EBV colonizes the human B cell compartment and periodically reactivates, inducing expression of 80 viral proteins. However, much remains unknown about how EBV remodels host cells and dismantles key antiviral responses. We therefore created a map of EBV-host and EBV-EBV interactions in B cells undergoing EBV replication, uncovering conserved herpesvirus versus EBV-specific host cell targets. The EBV-encoded G-protein-coupled receptor BILF1 associated with MAVS and the UFM1 E3 ligase UFL1. Although UFMylation of 14-3-3 proteins drives RIG-I/MAVS signaling, BILF1-directed MAVS UFMylation instead triggered MAVS packaging into mitochondrial-derived vesicles and lysosomal proteolysis. In the absence of BILF1, EBV replication activated the NLRP3 inflammasome, which impaired viral replication and triggered pyroptosis. Our results provide a viral protein interaction network resource, reveal a UFM1-dependent pathway for selective degradation of mitochondrial cargo, and highlight BILF1 as a novel therapeutic target.
PXD042009	37311743	Structural insights into Siglec-15 reveal glycosylation dependency for its interaction with T cells through integrin CD11b. 	Structural insights into Siglec-15 reveal glycosylation dependency for its interaction with T cells through integrin CD11b	CD11b, NMR, Siglec-15, T cells, X-ray crystallography, antibody, cancer, molecular recognition., sialic acid	Sialic acid-binding Ig-like lectin 15 (Siglec-15) is an immune modulator and emerging cancer immunotherapy target. However, limited understanding of its structure and mechanism of action restrains the development of drug candidates that unleash its full therapeutic potential. In this study, we elucidate the crystal structure of Siglec-15 and its binding epitope via co-crystallization with an anti-Siglec-15 blocking antibody. Using saturation transfer-difference nuclear magnetic resonance (STD-NMR) spectroscopy and molecular dynamics simulations, we reveal Siglec-15 binding mode to alpha(2,3)- and alpha(2,6)-linked sialic acids and the cancer-associated sialyl-Tn (STn) glycoform. We demonstrate that binding of Siglec-15 to T cells, which lack STn expression, depends on the presence of alpha(2,3)- and alpha(2,6)-linked sialoglycans. Furthermore, we identify the leukocyte integrin CD11b as a Siglec-15 binding partner on human T cells. Collectively, our findings provide an integrated understanding of the structural features of Siglec-15 and emphasize glycosylation as a crucial factor in controlling T cell responses.
PXD036300	37311819	Excessive copper impairs intrahepatocyte trafficking and secretion of selenoprotein P. 	Copper impairs hepatic selenoprotein P release	Selenium, Wilson's disease, copper, secretome, selenoprotein P	Selenium homeostasis depends on hepatic biosynthesis of selenoprotein P (SELENOP) and SELENOP-mediated transport from the liver to e.g. the brain. In addition, the liver maintains copper homeostasis. Selenium and copper metabolism are inversely regulated, as increasing copper and decreasing selenium levels are observed in blood during aging and inflammation. Here we show that copper treatment increased intracellular selenium and SELENOP in hepatocytes and decreased extracellular SELENOP levels. Hepatic accumulation of copper is a characteristic of Wilson's disease. Accordingly, SELENOP levels were low in serum of Wilson's disease patients and Wilson's rats. Mechanistically, drugs targeting protein transport in the Golgi complex mimicked some of the effects observed, indicating a disrupting effect of excessive copper on intracellular SELENOP transport resulting in its accumulation in the late Golgi. Our data suggest that hepatic copper levels determine SELENOP release from the liver and may affect selenium transport to peripheral organs such as the brain.
PXD039089	37313408	Construction of a fecal immune-related protein-based biomarker panel for colorectal cancer diagnosis: a multicenter study. 	Fecal protein changes in different colorectal diseases	Fecal protein	Purpose: To explore fecal immune-related proteins that can be used for colorectal cancer (CRC) diagnosis. Patients and methods: Three independent cohorts were used in present study. In the discovery cohort, which included 14 CRC patients and 6 healthy controls (HCs), label-free proteomics was applied to identify immune-related proteins in stool that could be used for CRC diagnosis. Exploring potential links between gut microbes and immune-related proteins by 16S rRNA sequencing. The abundance of fecal immune-associated proteins was verified by ELISA in two independent validation cohorts and a biomarker panel was constructed that could be used for CRC diagnosis. The validation cohort I included 192 CRC patients and 151 HCs from 6 different hospitals. The validation cohort II included 141 CRC patients, 82 colorectal adenoma (CRA) patients, and 87 HCs from another hospital. Finally, the expression of biomarkers in cancer tissues was verified by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Results: In the discovery study, 436 plausible fecal proteins were identified. And among 67 differential fecal proteins (|log2 fold change| > 1, P< 0.01) that could be used for CRC diagnosis, 16 immune-related proteins with diagnostic value were identified. The 16S rRNA sequencing results showed a positive correlation between immune-related proteins and the abundance of oncogenic bacteria. In the validation cohort I, a biomarker panel consisting of five fecal immune-related proteins (CAT, LTF, MMP9, RBP4, and SERPINA3) was constructed based on the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and multivariate logistic regression. The biomarker panel was found to be superior to hemoglobin in the diagnosis of CRC in both validation cohort I and validation cohort II. The IHC result showed that protein expression levels of these five immune-related proteins were significantly higher in CRC tissue than in normal colorectal tissue. Conclusion: A novel biomarker panel consisting of fecal immune-related proteins can be used for the diagnosis of CRC.
PXD037518	37314356	Mechanisms of Rapid Bactericidal and Anti-Biofilm Alpha-Mangostin In Vitro Activity against Staphylococcus aureus. 	Proteomic response of S. aureus to alpha-mangostin	Staphylococcus aureus, alpha-mangostin	Alpha-mangostin (alpha-mangostin) was discovered as a potent natural product against Gram-positive bacteria, whereas the underlying molecular mechanisms are still unclear. This study indicated that alpha-mangostin (at 4 x MIC) rapidly killed Staphylococcus aureus planktonic cells more effectively (at least 2-log10 CFU/ml) than daptomycin, vancomycin and linezolid at 1 and 3 h in the time-killing test. Interestingly, this study also found that a high concentration of alpha-mangostin (>=4xMIC) significantly reduced established biofilms of S. aureus. There were 58 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in alpha-mangostin nonsensitive S. aureus isolates by whole-genome sequencing, of which 35 SNPs were located on both sides of the sarT gene and 10 SNPs in the sarT gene. A total of 147 proteins with a different abundance were determined by proteomics analysis, of which 91 proteins increased, whereas 56 proteins decreased. The abundance of regulatory proteins SarX and SarZ increased. In contrast, the abundance of SarT and IcaB was significantly reduced (they belonged to SarA family and ica system, associated with the biofilm formation of S. aureus). The abundance of cell membrane proteins VraF and DltC was augmented, but the abundance of cell membrane protein UgtP remarkably decreased. Propidium iodide and DiBaC4(3) staining assay revealed that the fluorescence intensities of DNA and the cell membrane were elevated in the alpha-mangostin treated S. aureus isolates. In conclusion, this study reveals that alpha-mangostin was effective against S. aureus planktonic cells by targeting cell membranes. The anti-biofilm effect of alpha-mangostin may be through inhibiting the function of SarT and IcaB.
PXD037834	37315586	Proteomic analysis of STEAP1 knockdown in human LNCaP prostate cancer cells. 	Quantitative Proteome Analysis reveal the involvement of STEAP1 on vesicles-mediated transport in human LNCaP prostate cancer cells	STEAP1, endocytic pathway, label-free quantification, prostate cancer	Prostate cancer (PCa) continues to be one of the most common cancers in men worldwide. The six transmembrane epithelial antigen of the prostate 1 (STEAP1) protein is overexpressed in several types of human tumors, particularly in PCa. Our research group has demonstrated that STEAP1 overexpression is associated with PCa progression and aggressiveness. Therefore, understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms triggered by STEAP1 overexpression will provide important insights to delineate new strategies for PCa treatment. In the present work, a proteomic strategy was used to characterize the intracellular signaling pathways and the molecular targets downstream of STEAP1 in PCa cells. A label-free approach was applied using an Orbitrap LC-MS/MS system to characterize the proteome of STEAP1-knockdown PCa cells. More than 6700 proteins were identified, of which a total of 526 proteins were found differentially expressed in scramble siRNA versus STEAP1 siRNA (234 proteins up-regulated and 292 proteins down-regulated). Bioinformatics analysis allowed us to explore the mechanism through which STEAP1 exerts influence on PCa, revealing that endocytosis, RNA transport, apoptosis, aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, and metabolic pathways are the main biological processes where STEAP1 is involved. By immunoblotting, it was confirmed that STEAP1 silencing induced the up-regulation of cathepsin B, intersectin-1, and syntaxin 4, and the down-regulation of HRas, PIK3C2A, and DIS3. These findings suggested that blocking STEAP1 might be a suitable strategy to activate apoptosis and endocytosis, and diminish cellular metabolism and intercellular communication, leading to inhibition of PCa progression.
PXD040239	37315762	A snapshot of Bothrops jararaca snake venom gland subcellular proteome. 	A snapshot of Bothrops jararaca snake venom gland subcellular proteome	Bothrops jararaca, snake venom, snake venom gland, subcellular fractionation	Snake venom protein synthesis undergoes finely regulated processes in the specialized secretory epithelium within the venom gland. Such processes occur within a defined period in the cell and at specific cellular locations. Thus, the determination of subcellular proteomes allows the characterization of protein groups for which the site may be relevant to their biological roles, thereby allowing the deconvolution of complex biological circuits into functional information. In this regard, we performed subcellular fractionation of proteins from B. jararaca venom gland, focusing on nuclear proteins since this cellular compartment comprises key effectors that shape gene expression. Our results provided a snapshot of B. jararaca's subcellular venom gland proteome and pointed to a 'conserved' proteome core among different life stages (newborn and adult) and between sexes (adult male and female). Overall, the top 15 highly abundant proteins identified in B. jararaca venom glands mirrored the panel of highly expressed genes in human salivary glands. Therefore, the expression profile observed for such a protein set could be considered a conserved core signature of salivary gland secretory epithelium. Moreover, the newborn venom gland displayed a unique expression signature of transcription factors involved in regulating transcription and biosynthetic processes and may mirror biological constraints of the ontogenetic development of B. jararaca, contributing to venom proteome diversity.
PXD034416	37317878	Aberrant MNX1 expression associated with t(7;12)(q36;p13) pediatric acute myeloid leukemia induces the disease through altering histone methylation. 	Mnx1 Induces Leukemia Transformation Through Altering Histone Methylation in a Model of Pediatric t(7;12) Acute Myeloid Leukemia	12), AML, Homeodomain, MNX1, MNX1::ETV6, Methyl-transferases, pediatric AML, t(7	Certain subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in children have inferior outcome, such as AML with translocation t(7;12)(q36;p13) leading to a MNX1::ETV6 fusion along with high expression of MNX1. We have identified the transforming event in this AML and possible ways of treatment. Retroviral expression of MNX1 was able to induce AML in mice, with similar gene expression and pathway enrichment to t(7;12) AML patient data. Importantly, this leukemia was only induced in immune incompetent mice using fetal but not adult hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. The restriction in transforming capacity to cells from fetal liver is in alignment with t(7;12)(q36;p13) AML being mostly seen in infants. Expression of MNX1 led to increased histone 3 lysine 4 mono-, di- and trimethylation, reduction in H3K27me3, accompanied with changes in genome-wide chromatin accessibility and genome expression, likely mediated through MNX1 interaction with the methionine cycle and methyltransferases. MNX1 expression increased DNA damage, depletion of the Lin- /Sca1+/c-Kit+ population and skewing toward the myeloid lineage. These effects, together with leukemia development, was prevented by pretreatment with the S-adenosylmethionine analog Sinefungin. In conclusion, we have shown the importance of MNX1 in development of AML with t(7;12), supporting a rationale for targeting MNX1 and downstream pathways.
PXD037751	37319171	Optimized Suspension Trapping Method for Phosphoproteomics Sample Preparation. 	An Optimized Suspension Trapping (S-Trap) Method for Phosphoproteomics Sample Preparation	Phosphoproteomics, method optimization, sample preparation	A successful mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics analysis relies on effective sample preparation strategies. Suspension trapping (S-Trap) is a novel, rapid, and universal method of sample preparation that is increasingly applied in bottom-up proteomics studies. However, the performance of the S-Trap protocol for phosphoproteomics studies is unclear. In the existing S-Trap protocol, the addition of phosphoric acid (PA) and methanol buffer creates a fine protein suspension to capture proteins on a filter and is a critical step for subsequent protein digestion. Herein, we demonstrate that this addition of PA is detrimental to downstream phosphopeptide enrichment, rendering the standard S-Trap protocol suboptimal for phosphoproteomics. In this study, the performance of the S-Trap digestion for proteomics and phosphoproteomics is systematically evaluated in large-scale and small-scale samples. The results of this comparative analysis show that an optimized S-Trap approach, where trifluoroacetic acid is substituted for PA, is a simple and effective method to prepare samples for phosphoproteomics. Our optimized S-Trap protocol is applied to extracellular vesicles to demonstrate superior sample preparation workflow for low-abundance, membrane-rich samples.
PXD034103	37321300	Exploring molecular dynamic indicators associated with reproductive performance of Bos indicus cattle in blood plasma samples through data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. 	Exploring molecular dynamics indicators associated with reproductive performance of Bos indicus cattle in plasma samples through data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry	Animal reproduction, Bos indicus, Diary research, LC-MS/MS-DIA, Plasma, Quantitative proteomics	Improving reproductive performance of cattle is of paramount importance for sustainable dairy farming. Poor reproduction performance (RP) hinders the genetic improvement of important Bos indicus cattle breeds. It is well known that incorporation of molecular information along with conventional breeding method is far better than use of conventional method alone for the genetic improvement of reproductive performance traits in cattle. Therefore, the present study sought to investigate the plasma proteome of the Deoni cows in cyclical (n = 6) and pregnant (n = 6) reproductive phases with varying reproductive performance (high and low). High-throughput data independent acquisition (DIA) based proteomics was performed to understand corresponding proteome. We identified a total of 430 plasma proteins. Among cyclic cows, twenty proteins were differentially regulated in low RP as compared to high RP. BARD1 and AFP proteins were observed upregulated in cyclical cows whose upregulation reported to affect reproductive performance in cattle. Among the pregnant cows, thirty-five proteins were differentially regulated, including the downregulation of FGL2 and ZNFX1 that modulates the maternal immune response mechanism which is required for successful implantation of the embryo. Also, proteins such as AHSG, CLU and SERPINA6 were upregulated in the pregnant cows whose upregulation reported to reduced reproductive performance. The results of this study will be helpful in establishing a framework for future research on the aspect of improving reproductive performance in Bos indicus cattle breeds. SIGNIFICANCE: The Indian subcontinent is the center of domestication for Bos indicus cattle breeds and they are known for their disease resistance, heat tolerance, ability to survive in low input regime and harsh climatic conditions. In recent times, population of many important Bos indicus breeds including Deoni cattle is declining due to various factors, especially due to reproductive performance. Traditional breeding methods are not sufficient enough to understand and improve the reproductive performance traits in important Bos indicus cattle breeds. Proteomics approach is a promising technology to understand the complex biological factors which leads to poor reproductive performance in cattle. The present study utilized DIA based LC- MS/MS analysis to identify the plasma proteins associated with reproductive performance in cyclical and pregnant cows. This study if improved further, can be used to develop potential protein markers associated with reproductive performance which is useful for the selection and genetic improvement of important Bos indicus breeds.
PXD041769	37321992	Kv7/KCNQ potassium channels in cortical hyperexcitability and juvenile seizure-related death in Ank2-mutant mice. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of Ank2-mutant mice	Ank2, Autism spectrum disorders, Phosphoproteomics	Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) represent neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by social deficits, repetitive behaviors, and various comorbidities, including epilepsy. ANK2, which encodes a neuronal scaffolding protein, is frequently mutated in ASD, but its in vivo functions and disease-related mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we report that mice with Ank2 knockout restricted to cortical and hippocampal excitatory neurons (Ank2-cKO mice) show ASD-related behavioral abnormalities and juvenile seizure-related death. Ank2-cKO cortical neurons show abnormally increased excitability and firing rate. These changes accompanied decreases in the total level and function of the Kv7.2/KCNQ2 and Kv7.3/KCNQ3 potassium channels and the density of these channels in the enlengthened axon initial segment. Importantly, the Kv7 agonist, retigabine, rescued neuronal excitability, juvenile seizure-related death, and hyperactivity in Ank2-cKO mice. These results suggest that Ank2 regulates neuronal excitability by regulating the length of and Kv7 density in the AIS and that Kv7 channelopathy is involved in Ank2-related brain dysfunctions.
PXD031584	37322026	PPP2R1A regulates migration persistence through the NHSL1-containing WAVE Shell Complex. 	PPP2R1A is a component of WAVE complex and it is important for cancer cell migration	human cell line	The RAC1-WAVE-Arp2/3 signaling pathway generates branched actin networks that power lamellipodium protrusion of migrating cells. Feedback is thought to control protrusion lifetime and migration persistence, but its molecular circuitry remains elusive. Here, we identify PPP2R1A by proteomics as a protein differentially associated with the WAVE complex subunit ABI1 when RAC1 is activated and downstream generation of branched actin is blocked. PPP2R1A is found to associate at the lamellipodial edge with an alternative form of WAVE complex, the WAVE Shell Complex, that contains NHSL1 instead of the Arp2/3 activating subunit WAVE, as in the canonical WAVE Regulatory Complex. PPP2R1A is required for persistence in random and directed migration assays and for RAC1-dependent actin polymerization in cell extracts. PPP2R1A requirement is abolished by NHSL1 depletion. PPP2R1A mutations found in tumors impair WAVE Shell Complex binding and migration regulation, suggesting that the coupling of PPP2R1A to the WAVE Shell Complex is essential to its function.
PXD041766	37322076	Remodeling of the focal adhesion complex by hydrogen-peroxide-induced senescence. 	Remodeling of the focal adhesion complex by hydrogen-peroxide- induced senescence	3T3 cell line, LC-MS, oxidation, senescence	Cellular senescence is a phenotype characterized by cessation of cell division, which can be caused by exhaustive replication or environmental stress. It is involved in age-related pathophysiological conditions and affects both the cellular cytoskeleton and the prime cellular mechanosensors, focal adhesion complexes. While the size of focal adhesions increases during senescence, it is unknown if and how this is accompanied by a remodeling of the internal focal adhesion structure. Our study uses metal-induced energy transfer to study the axial dimension of focal adhesion proteins from oxidative-stress-induced senescent cells with nanometer precision, and compares these to unstressed cells. We influenced cytoskeletal tension and the functioning of mechanosensitive ion channels using drugs and studied the combined effect of senescence and drug intervention on the focal adhesion structure. We found that H2O2-induced restructuring of the focal adhesion complex indicates a loss of tension and altered talin complexation. Mass spectroscopy-based proteomics confirmed the differential regulation of several cytoskeletal proteins induced by H2O2 treatment.
PXD022568	37322158	Chemoproteomic mapping of the glycolytic targetome in cancer cells. 	Chemoproteomic Mapping of the Glycolytic Targetome in Cancer Cells	TRAP, chemoproteomics, glycolysis	Hyperactivated glycolysis is a metabolic hallmark of most cancer cells. Although sporadic information has revealed that glycolytic metabolites possess nonmetabolic functions as signaling molecules, how these metabolites interact with and functionally regulate their binding targets remains largely elusive. Here, we introduce a target-responsive accessibility profiling (TRAP) approach that measures changes in ligand binding-induced accessibility for target identification by globally labeling reactive proteinaceous lysines. With TRAP, we mapped 913 responsive target candidates and 2,487 interactions for 10 major glycolytic metabolites in a model cancer cell line. The wide targetome depicted by TRAP unveils diverse regulatory modalities of glycolytic metabolites, and these modalities involve direct perturbation of enzymes in carbohydrate metabolism, intervention of an orphan transcriptional protein's activity and modulation of targetome-level acetylation. These results further our knowledge of how glycolysis orchestrates signaling pathways in cancer cells to support their survival, and inspire exploitation of the glycolytic targetome for cancer therapy.
PXD036844	37322475	Comprehensive profiling of extracellular vesicles in uveitis and scleritis enables biomarker discovery and mechanism exploration. 	Proteomic landscape of plasma and plasma-derived sEVs and lEVs in uveitis and posterior scleritis	biomarkers, large extracellular vesicles, plasma, posterior scleritis, proteomic profiles, small extracellular vesicles, uveitis	BACKGROUND: Uveitis and posterior scleritis are sight-threatening diseases with undefined pathogenesis and accurate diagnosis remains challenging. METHODS: Two plasma-derived extracellular vesicle (EV) subpopulations, small and large EVs, obtained from patients with ankylosing spondylitis-related uveitis, Behcet's disease uveitis, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome, and posterior scleritis were subjected to proteomics analysis alongside plasma using SWATH-MS. A comprehensive bioinformatics analysis was performed on the proteomic profiles of sEVs, lEVs, and plasma. Candidate biomarkers were validated in a new cohort using ELISA. Pearson correlation analysis was performed to analyze the relationship between clinical parameters and proteomic data. Connectivity map database was used to predict therapeutic agents. RESULTS: In total, 3,668 proteins were identified and over 3000 proteins were quantified from 278 samples. When comparing diseased group to healthy control, the proteomic profiles of the two EV subgroups were more correlated with disease than plasma. Comprehensive bioinformatics analysis highlighted potential pathogenic mechanisms for these diseases. Potential biomarker panels for four diseases were identified and validated. We found a negative correlation between plasma endothelin-converting enzyme 1 level and mean retinal thickness. Potential therapeutic drugs were proposed, and their targets were identified. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a proteomic landscape of plasma and EVs involved in ankylosing spondylitis-related uveitis, Behcet's disease uveitis, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome, and posterior scleritis, offers insights into disease pathogenesis, identifies valuable biomarker candidates, and proposes promising therapeutic agents.
PXD032974	37324218	WSD-0922, a novel brain-penetrant inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor, promotes survival in glioblastoma mouse models. 	Characterization of WSD-0922 Signaling	Blood-brain barrier, EGFR, Erlotinib, Glioblastoma, WSD-0922	Background: Although the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a frequent oncogenic driver in glioblastoma (GBM), efforts to therapeutically target this protein have been largely unsuccessful. The present preclinical study evaluated the novel EGFR inhibitor WSD-0922. Methods: We employed flank and orthotopic patient-derived xenograft models to characterize WSD-0922 and compare its efficacy to erlotinib, a potent EGFR inhibitor that failed to provide benefit for GBM patients. We performed long-term survival studies and collected short-term tumor, plasma, and whole-brain samples from mice treated with each drug. We utilized mass spectrometry to measure drug concentrations and spatial distribution and to assess the impact of each drug on receptor activity and cellular signaling networks. Results: WSD-0922 inhibited EGFR signaling as effectively as erlotinib in in vitro and in vivo models. While WSD-0922 was more CNS penetrant than erlotinib in terms of total concentration, comparable concentrations of both drugs were measured at the tumor site in orthotopic models, and the concentration of free WSD-0922 in the brain was significantly less than the concentration of free erlotinib. WSD-0922 treatment provided a clear survival advantage compared to erlotinib in the GBM39 model, with marked suppression of tumor growth and most mice surviving until the end of the study. WSD-0922 treatment preferentially inhibited phosphorylation of several proteins, including those associated with EGFR inhibitor resistance and cell metabolism. Conclusions: WSD-0922 is a highly potent inhibitor of EGFR in GBM, and warrants further evaluation in clinical studies.
PXD035791	37324728	Metaproteomics profiling of the microbial communities in fermentation starters (Daqu) during multi-round production of Chinese liquor. 	Metaproteomics characterizes the Prepared Daqu microorganism	Maotai-flavor liquor, Prepared Daqu, bacterial diversity, data-independent acquisition, quantitative metaproteomics	Introduction: The special flavor and fragrance of Chinese liquor are closely related to microorganisms in the fermentation starter Daqu. The changes of microbial community can affect the stability of liquor yield and quality. Methods: In this study, we used data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) for cohort study of the microbial communities of a total of 42 Daqu samples in six production cycles at different times of a year. The DIA MS data were searched against a protein database constructed by metagenomic sequencing. Results: The microbial composition and its changes across production cycles were revealed. Functional analysis of the differential proteins was carried out and the metabolic pathways related to the differential proteins were explored. These metabolic pathways were related to the saccharification process in liquor fermentation and the synthesis of secondary metabolites to form the unique flavor and aroma in the Chinese liquor. Discussion: We expect that the metaproteome profiling of Daqu from different production cycles will serve as a guide for the control of fermentation process of Chinese liquor in the future.
PXD040501	37325473	LeishIF3d is a non-canonical cap-binding protein in Leishmania. 	LeishIF3d is a non-canonical cap-binding protein specific for Leishmania	IF3d, Leishmania	Translation of most cellular mRNAs in eukaryotes proceeds through a cap-dependent pathway, whereby the cap-binding complex, eIF4F, anchors the pre-initiation complex at the 5' end of mRNAs driving translation initiation. The genome of Leishmania encodes a large repertoire of cap-binding complexes that fulfill a variety of functions possibly involved in survival along the life cycle. However, most of these complexes function in the promastigote life form that resides in the sand fly vector and decrease their activity in amastigotes, the mammalian life form. Here we examined the possibility that LeishIF3d drives translation in Leishmania using alternative pathways. We describe a non-canonical cap-binding activity of LeishIF3d and examine its potential role in driving translation. LeishIF3d is required for translation, as reducing its expression by a hemizygous deletion reduces the translation activity of the LeishIF3d(+/-) mutant cells. Proteomic analysis of the mutant cells highlights the reduced expression of flagellar and cytoskeletal proteins, as reflected in the morphological changes observed in the mutant cells. Targeted mutations in two predicted alpha helices diminish the cap-binding activity of LeishIF3d. Overall, LeishIF3d could serve as a driving force for alternative translation pathways, although it does not seem to offer an alternative pathway for translation in amastigotes.
PXD040274	37325510	Targeted and non-targeted proteomics to characterize the parasite proteins of Echinococcus multilocularis metacestodes. 	Targeted and non-targeted proteomics to characterize the parasite proteins of Echinococcus multilocularis metacestodes	alveolar echinococcosis, cestodes, host-parasite interplay, model system, targeted proteomics, transport, untargeted proteomics	The larval stage of the cestode Echinococcus multilocularis is the causative agent of alveolar echinococcosis. To investigate the biology of these stages and to test novel compounds, metacestode cultures represent a suitable in vitro model system. These metacestodes are vesicles surrounded by an envelope formed by the vesicle tissue (VT), which is formed by the laminated and germinal layer, and filled with vesicle fluid (VF). We analyzed the proteome of VF and VT by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and identified a total of 2,954 parasite proteins. The most abundant protein in VT was the expressed conserved protein encoded by EmuJ_000412500, followed by the antigen B subunit AgB8/3a encoded by EmuJ_000381500 and Endophilin B1 (protein p29). In VF, the pattern was different and dominated by AgB subunits. The most abundant protein was the AgB8/3a subunit followed by three other AgB subunits. In total, the AgB subunits detected in VF represented 62.1% of the parasite proteins. In culture media (CM), 63 E. multilocularis proteins were detected, of which AgB subunits made up 93.7% of the detected parasite proteins. All AgB subunits detected in VF (encoded by EmuJ_000381100-700, corresponding to AgB8/2, AgB8/1, AgB8/4, AgB8/3a, AgB8/3b, and AgB8/3c) were also found in CM, except the subunit encoded by EmuJ_000381800 (AgB8/5) that was very rare in VF and not detected in CM. The relative abundance of the AgB subunits in VF and CM followed the same pattern. In VT, only the subunits EmuJ_000381500 (AgB8/3a) and EmuJ_000381200 (AgB8/1) were detected among the 20 most abundant proteins. To see whether this pattern was specific to VF from in vitro cultured metacestodes, we analyzed the proteome of VF from metacestodes grown in a mouse model. Here, the AgB subunits encoded by EmuJ_000381100-700 constituted the most abundant proteins, namely, 81.9% of total protein, with the same order of abundance as in vitro. Immunofluorescence on metacestodes showed that AgB is co-localized to calcareous corpuscles of E. multilocularis. Using targeted proteomics with HA-tagged EmuJ_000381200 (AgB8/1) and EmuJ_000381100 (AgB8/2), we could show that uptake of AgB subunits from CM into VF occurs within hours.
PXD042302	37325559	Mapping of the podocin proximity-dependent proteome reveals novel components of the kidney podocyte foot process. 	Mapping of the podocin proximity-dependent proteome reveals novel components of the kidney podocyte foot process.	Aging, BioID Proximity Labeling, Fnbp1l, Foot Process, Ildr2, Podocytes	Introduction: The unique architecture of glomerular podocytes is integral to kidney filtration. Interdigitating foot processes extend from the podocyte cell body, wrap around fenestrated capillaries, and form specialized junctional complexes termed slit diaphragms to create a molecular sieve. However, the full complement of proteins which maintain foot process integrity, and how this localized proteome changes with disease, remain to be elucidated. Methods: Proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID) enables the identification of spatially localized proteomes. To this end, we developed a novel in vivo BioID knock-in mouse model. We utilized the slit diaphragm protein podocin (Nphs2) to create a podocin-BioID fusion. Podocin-BioID localizes to the slit diaphragm, and biotin injection leads to podocyte-specific protein biotinylation. We isolated the biotinylated proteins and performed mass spectrometry to identify proximal interactors. Results and Discussion: Gene ontology analysis of 54 proteins specifically enriched in our podocin-BioID sample revealed 'cell junctions,' 'actin binding,' and 'cytoskeleton organization' as top terms. Known foot process components were identified, and we further uncovered two novel proteins: the tricellular junctional protein Ildr2 and the CDC42 and N-WASP interactor Fnbp1l. We confirmed that Ildr2 and Fnbp1l are expressed by podocytes and partially colocalize with podocin. Finally, we investigated how this proteome changes with age and uncovered a significant increase in Ildr2. This was confirmed by immunofluorescence on human kidney samples and suggests altered junctional composition may preserve podocyte integrity. Together, these assays have led to new insights into podocyte biology and support the efficacy of utilizing BioID in vivo to interrogate spatially localized proteomes in health, aging, and disease.
PXD039753	37326479	Outer membrane protein OMP76 of Riemerella anatipestifer contributes to complement evasion and virulence by binding to duck complement factor vitronectin. 	The outer membrane protein of Riemerella anatipestifer YM strain interacting with duck vitronectin was screened by pull-down assay sequencing by mass spectrometry and search for complement escape related protein of Riemerella anatipestifer YM strain.	R. anatipestifer, outer membrane proteins, pull-down, vitronectin	Riemerella anatipestifer is an important bacterial pathogen in poultry. Pathogenic bacteria recruit host complement factors to resist the bactericidal effect of serum complement. Vitronectin (Vn) is a complementary regulatory protein that inhibits the formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC). Microbes use outer membrane proteins (OMPs) to hijack Vn for complement evasion. However, the mechanism by which R. anatipestifer achieves evasion is unclear. This study aimed to characterise OMPs of R. anatipestifer which interact with duck Vn (dVn) during complement evasion. Far-western assays and comparison of wild-type and mutant strains that were treated with dVn and duck serum demonstrated particularly strong binding of OMP76 to dVn. These data were confirmed with Escherichia coli strains expressing and not expressing OMP76. Combining tertiary structure analysis and homology modelling, truncated and knocked-out fragments of OMP76 showed that a cluster of critical amino acids in an extracellular loop of OMP76 mediate the interaction with dVn. Moreover, binding of dVn to R. anatipestifer inhibited MAC deposition on the bacterial surface thereby enhancing survival in duck serum. Virulence of the mutant strain DeltaOMP76 was attenuated significantly relative to the wild-type strain. Furthermore, adhesion and invasion abilities of DeltaOMP76 decreased, and histopathological changes showed that DeltaOMP76 was less virulent in ducklings. Thus, OMP76 is a key virulence factor of R. anatipestifer. The identification of OMP76-mediated evasion of complement by recruitment of dVn contributes significantly to the understanding of the molecular mechanism by which R. anatipestifer escapes host innate immunity and provides a new target for the development of subunit vaccines.
PXD042037	37327455	Metaproteomics Characterizes the Human Gingival Crevicular Fluid Microbiome Function in Periodontitis. 	Metaproteomics characterizes human gingival crevicular fluid microbiome function in periodontitis	GCF	Periodontitis is the leading cause of tooth loss in adults worldwide. The human proteome and metaproteome characterization of periodontitis is not clearly understood. Gingival crevicular fluid samples were collected from eight periodontitis and eight healthy subjects. Both the human and microbial proteins were characterized by liquid chromatography coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry. A total of 570 human proteins were found differentially expressed, which were primarily associated with inflammatory response, cell death, cellular junction, and fatty acid metabolism. For the metaproteome, 51 genera were identified, and 10 genera were found highly expressed in periodontitis, while 11 genera were downregulated. The analysis showed that microbial proteins related to butyrate metabolism were upregulated in periodontitis cases. In particular, correlation analysis showed that the expression of host proteins related to inflammatory response, cell death, cellular junction, and lipid metabolism correlates with the alteration of metaproteins, which reflect the changes of molecular function during the occurrence of periodontitis. This study showed that the gingival crevicular fluid human proteome and metaproteome could reflect the characteristics of periodontitis. This might benefit the understanding of the periodontitis mechanism.
PXD039710	37327789	The CD58-CD2 axis is co-regulated with PD-L1 via CMTM6 and shapes anti-tumor immunity. 	The CD58:CD2 axis is co-regulated with PD-L1 via CMTM6 and shapes anti-tumor immunity	CD58, Melanoma	The cell-autonomous balance of immune-inhibitory and -stimulatory signals is a critical process in cancer immune evasion. Using patient-derived co-cultures, humanized mouse models, and single-cell RNA-sequencing of patient melanomas biopsied before and on immune checkpoint blockade, we find that intact cancer cell-intrinsic expression of CD58 and ligation to CD2 is required for anti-tumor immunity and is predictive of treatment response. Defects in this axis promote immune evasion through diminished T cell activation, impaired intratumoral T cell infiltration and proliferation, and concurrently increased PD-L1 protein stabilization. Through CRISPR-Cas9 and proteomics screens, we identify and validate CMTM6 as critical for CD58 stability and upregulation of PD-L1 upon CD58 loss. Competition between CD58 and PD-L1 for CMTM6 binding determines their rate of endosomal recycling over lysosomal degradation. Overall, we describe an underappreciated yet critical axis of cancer immunity and provide a molecular basis for how cancer cells balance immune inhibitory and stimulatory cues.
PXD040700	37328063	Prenylated PALM2 Promotes the Migration of Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Cells Through Activating Ezrin. 	The protein interaction of PALM2 in HEK 293T	HEK 293T, Interaction, PALM2	Proteins containing a CAAX motif at the C-terminus undergo prenylation for localization and activity and include a series of key regulatory proteins, such as RAS superfamily members, heterotrimeric G proteins, nuclear lamina protein, and several protein kinases and phosphatases. However, studies of prenylated proteins in esophageal cancer are limited. Here, through research on large-scale proteomic data of esophageal cancer in our laboratory, we found that paralemmin-2 (PALM2), a potential prenylated protein, was upregulated and associated with poor prognosis in patients. Low-throughput verification showed that the expression of PALM2 in esophageal cancer tissues was higher than that in their paired normal esophageal epithelial tissues, and it was generally expressed in the membrane and cytoplasm of esophageal cancer cells. PALM2 interacted with the two subunits of farnesyl transferase (FTase), FNTA and FNTB. Either the addition of an FTase inhibitor or mutation in the CAAX motif of PALM2 (PALM2(C408S)) impaired its membranous localization and reduced the membrane location of PALM2, indicating PALM2 was prenylated by FTase. Overexpression of PALM2 enhanced the migration of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cells, whereas PALM2(C408S) lost this ability. Mechanistically, PALM2 interacted with the N-terminal FERM domain of ezrin of the ezrin/radixin/moesin (ERM) family. Mutagenesis indicated that lysine residues K253/K254/K262/K263 in ezrin's FERM domain and C408 in PALM2's CAAX motif were important for PALM2/ezrin interaction and ezrin activation. Knockout of ezrin prevented enhanced cancer cell migration by PALM2 overexpression. PALM2, depending on its prenylation, increased both ezrin membrane localization and phosphorylation of ezrin at Y146. In summary, prenylated PALM2 enhances the migration of cancer cells by activating ezrin.
PXD038836	37328066	Elucidating Fibroblast Growth Factor-Induced Kinome Dynamics Using Targeted Mass Spectrometry and Dynamic Modeling. 	Elucidating Fibroblast Growth Factor-induced kinome dynamics using targeted mass spectrometry and dynamic modeling	Phosphoproteomics, breast cancer., dynamic modeling, fibroblast growth factor receptor, fibroblast growth factors, kinase, kinase dynamics, targeted mass spectrometry	Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are paracrine or endocrine signaling proteins that, activated by their ligands, elicit a wide range of health and disease-related processes, such as cell proliferation and the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. The detailed molecular pathway dynamics that coordinate these responses have remained to be determined. To elucidate these, we stimulated MCF-7 breast cancer cells with either FGF2, FGF3, FGF4, FGF10, or FGF19. Following activation of the receptor, we quantified the kinase activity dynamics of 44 kinases using a targeted mass spectrometry assay. Our system-wide kinase activity data, supplemented with (phospho)proteomics data, reveal ligand-dependent distinct pathway dynamics, elucidate the involvement of not earlier reported kinases such as MARK, and revise some of the pathway effects on biological outcomes. In addition, logic-based dynamic modeling of the kinome dynamics further verifies the biological goodness-of-fit of the predicted models and reveals BRAF-driven activation upon FGF2 treatment and ARAF-driven activation upon FGF4 treatment.
PXD038947	37328457	Hybrid-DIA: intelligent data acquisition integrates targeted and discovery proteomics to analyze phospho-signaling in single spheroids. 	Hybrid-DIA: Intelligent Data Acquisition for Simultaneous Targeted and Discovery Phosphoproteomics in Single Spheroids	Discovery, Phosphoproteomics, Spheroids, Targeted	Achieving sufficient coverage of regulatory phosphorylation sites by mass spectrometry (MS)-based phosphoproteomics for signaling pathway reconstitution is challenging, especially when analyzing tiny sample amounts. To address this, we present a hybrid data-independent acquisition (DIA) strategy (hybrid-DIA) that combines targeted and discovery proteomics through an Application Programming Interface (API) to dynamically intercalate DIA scans with accurate triggering of multiplexed tandem mass spectrometry (MSx) scans of predefined (phospho)peptide targets. By spiking-in heavy stable isotope labeled phosphopeptide standards covering seven major signaling pathways, we benchmark hybrid-DIA against state-of-the-art targeted MS methods (i.e., SureQuant) using EGF-stimulated HeLa cells and find the quantitative accuracy and sensitivity to be comparable while hybrid-DIA also profiles the global phosphoproteome. To demonstrate the robustness, sensitivity, and biomedical potential of hybrid-DIA, we profile chemotherapeutic agents in single colon carcinoma multicellular spheroids and evaluate the phospho-signaling difference of cancer cells in 2D vs 3D culture.
PXD039898	37328468	Structure and antigenicity of divergent Henipavirus fusion glycoproteins. 	Structure and antigenicity of divergent Henipavirus fusion glycoproteins	Glycoprotein, Henipavirus, Virus Structures	In August 2022, a novel henipavirus (HNV) named Langya virus (LayV) was isolated from patients with severe pneumonic disease in China. This virus is closely related to Mojiang virus (MojV), and both are divergent from the bat-borne HNV members, Nipah (NiV) and Hendra (HeV) viruses. The spillover of LayV is the first instance of a HNV zoonosis to humans outside of NiV and HeV, highlighting the continuing threat this genus poses to human health. In this work, we determine the prefusion structures of MojV and LayV F proteins via cryogenic electron microscopy to 2.66 and 3.37 Aa, respectively. We show that despite sequence divergence from NiV, the F proteins adopt an overall similar structure but are antigenically distinct as they do not react to known antibodies or sera. Glycoproteomic analysis revealed that while LayV F is less glycosylated than NiV F, it contains a glycan that shields a site of vulnerability previously identified for NiV. These findings explain the distinct antigenic profile of LayV and MojV F, despite the extent to which they are otherwise structurally similar to NiV. Our results carry implications for broad-spectrum HNV vaccines and therapeutics, and indicate an antigenic, yet not structural, divergence from prototypical HNVs.
PXD036437	37328477	A short dasatinib and quercetin treatment is sufficient to reinstate potent adult neuroregenesis in the aged killifish. 	Senolytics improve the neurogenic potential of non-glial progenitors and neurorepair in the dorsal pallium of aged killifish independent of inflammation	Aging, D+Q, N. furzeri, neuroregeneration, neurorepair, senescent cells, senolytics	The young African turquoise killifish has a high regenerative capacity, but loses it with advancing age, adopting several aspects of the limited form of mammalian regeneration. We deployed a proteomic strategy to identify pathways that underpin the loss of regenerative power caused by aging. Cellular senescence stood out as a potential brake on successful neurorepair. We applied the senolytic cocktail Dasatinib and Quercetin (D + Q) to test clearance of chronic senescent cells from the aged killifish central nervous system (CNS) as well as rebooting the neurogenic output. Our results show that the entire aged killifish telencephalon holds a very high senescent cell burden, including the parenchyma and the neurogenic niches, which could be diminished by a short-term, late-onset D + Q treatment. Reactive proliferation of non-glial progenitors increased substantially and lead to restorative neurogenesis after traumatic brain injury. Our results provide a cellular mechanism for age-related regeneration resilience and a proof-of-concept of a potential therapy to revive the neurogenic potential in an already aged or diseased CNS.
PXD034917	37328936	Chaperonin CCT controls extracellular vesicle production and cell metabolism through kinesin dynamics. 	Chaperonin CCT controls cell fuelling by lipids and extracellular vesicle production through kinesin dynamics	CCT, chaperonin, extracellular vesicle, lipid droplet, lipidomic, peroxisome	Cell proteostasis includes gene transcription, protein translation, folding of de novo proteins, post-translational modifications, secretion, degradation and recycling. By profiling the proteome of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from T cells, we have found the chaperonin complex CCT, involved in the correct folding of particular proteins. By limiting CCT cell-content by siRNA, cells undergo altered lipid composition and metabolic rewiring towards a lipid-dependent metabolism, with increased activity of peroxisomes and mitochondria. This is due to dysregulation of the dynamics of interorganelle contacts between lipid droplets, mitochondria, peroxisomes and the endolysosomal system. This process accelerates the biogenesis of multivesicular bodies leading to higher EV production through the dynamic regulation of microtubule-based kinesin motors. These findings connect proteostasis with lipid metabolism through an unexpected role of CCT.
PXD032865	37329629	Proteomic investigation and understanding on IgY purification and product development. 	Proteomic Characterization of Extracted and Purified IgY Antibodies	Egg yolk, Extraction and purification, IgY product, Immunoglobulin Y (IgY), Label-Free proteomic analysis	An increasing demand for the development of immunoglobin Y (IgY) illustrates the necessity of the component analysis in the process of conduction and quality control. This study investigated the proteomic changes in crude IgY extracts and purified IgY products obtained by sequential polyethylene glycol precipitation (PEG) of egg yolks followed by human mycoplasma protein-based affinity chromatography compared with intact egg yolks. After confirming the extraction efficiency and purity by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) analysis, liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was performed with samples including fresh yolk, IgY extracted product and purified product. A total of 348 proteins were identified, with 36 proteins deleted and 209 newly detected proteins in the purified product compared to the intact egg yolk. The significantly decreased proteins mainly included phosvitin, albumin, and apolipoprotein B whereas the significantly increased proteins were mainly IgY-related proteins. GO analysis showed that the purified IgY product had ATPase activity and purine ribonucleoside triphosphate binding activity, and was mainly involved in purine and nucleic acid metabolism. This study will inevitably fasten the commercial application of IgY antibodies and is of greater significance for promotion, development and approval for new antibody derived drug products.
PXD041690	37329881	Virion glycosylation influences mycobacteriophage immune recognition. 	O-Glycosylation of Mycobacteriophage Proteins	Capsid, Mycobacteriophage, O-glycosylation, Tail Tube Protein	Glycosylation of eukaryotic virus particles is common and influences their uptake, trafficking, and immune recognition. In contrast, glycosylation of bacteriophage particles has not been reported; phage virions typically do not enter the cytoplasm upon infection, and they do not generally inhabit eukaryotic systems. We show here that several genomically distinct phages of Mycobacteria are modified with glycans attached to the C terminus of capsid and tail tube protein subunits. These O-linked glycans influence antibody production and recognition, shielding viral particles from antibody binding and reducing production of neutralizing antibodies. Glycosylation is mediated by phage-encoded glycosyltransferases, and genomic analysis suggests that they are relatively common among mycobacteriophages. Putative glycosyltransferases are also encoded by some Gordonia and Streptomyces phages, but there is little evidence of glycosylation among the broader phage population. The immune response to glycosylated phage virions in mice suggests that glycosylation may be an advantageous property for phage therapy of Mycobacterium infections.
PXD036832	37330510	A pharmacoproteomic landscape of organotypic intervention responses in Gram-negative sepsis. 	A pharmacoproteomic landscape of organotypic intervention responses in gram-negative sepsis	antibiotics, corticosteroids, plasma, sepsis, tissue	Sepsis is the major cause of mortality across intensive care units globally, yet details of accompanying pathological molecular events remain unclear. This knowledge gap has resulted in ineffective biomarker development and suboptimal treatment regimens to prevent and manage organ dysfunction/damage. Here, we used pharmacoproteomics to score time-dependent treatment impact in a murine Escherichia coli sepsis model after administering beta-lactam antibiotic meropenem (Mem) and/or the immunomodulatory glucocorticoid methylprednisolone (Gcc). Three distinct proteome response patterns were identified, which depended on the underlying proteotype for each organ. Gcc enhanced some positive proteome responses of Mem, including superior reduction of the inflammatory response in kidneys and partial restoration of sepsis-induced metabolic dysfunction. Mem introduced sepsis-independent perturbations in the mitochondrial proteome that Gcc counteracted. We provide a strategy for the quantitative and organotypic assessment of treatment effects of candidate therapies in relationship to dosing, timing, and potential synergistic intervention combinations during sepsis.
PXD040028	37332825	Elevated Level of Glycated KQTALVELVK Peptide of Albumin Is Associated with the Risk of Diabetic Nephropathy. 	Quantification of glycated human serum albumin peptides	HbA1c, Homo sapiens, glycation, human serum albumin, kidney, microalbuminuria, plasma	Diabetic nephropathy is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease. Hence, early detection of diabetic nephropathy is essential to mitigate the disease burden. Microalbuminuria, the currently used diagnostic marker of diabetic nephropathy, is not efficient in detecting it at an early stage. Therefore, we explored the utility of glycated human serum albumin (HSA) peptides for risk prediction of diabetic nephropathy. Three glycation-sensitive HSA peptides, namely, FKDLGEENFK, KQTALVELVK, and KVPQVSTPTLVEVSR, with deoxyfructosyllysine (DFL) modification were quantified by targeted mass spectrometry (MS) in a study population comprising healthy and type II diabetes subjects with and without nephropathy. Mass spectrometry, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, and correlation analysis revealed that the DFL-modified KQTALVELVK peptide was better than other glycated HSA peptides and HbA1c for identifying diabetic nephropathy. DFL-modified KQTALVELVK could be a potential marker for risk prediction of diabetic nephropathy.
PXD043674	37333389	SEL1L-HRD1 interaction is prerequisite for the formation of a functional HRD1 ERAD complex. 	HRD1 IP-MS in WT and SEL1L deficiency HEK293T cells	ERAD complex formation, HEK293T, SEL1L-HRD1 ERAD	The SEL1L-HRD1 protein complex represents the most conserved branch of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation (ERAD); however, definitive evidence for the importance of SEL1L in HRD1 ERAD is lacking. Here we report that attenuation of the interaction between SEL1L and HRD1 impairs HRD1 ERAD function and has pathological consequences in mice. Our data show that SEL1L variant p.Ser658Pro ( SEL1L S 658 P ) previously identified in Finnish Hound suffering cerebellar ataxia is a recessive hypomorphic mutation, causing partial embryonic lethality, developmental delay, and early-onset cerebellar ataxia in homozygous mice carrying the bi-allelic variant. Mechanistically, SEL1L S 658 P variant attenuates the SEL1L-HRD1 interaction and causes HRD1 dysfunction by generating electrostatic repulsion between SEL1L F668 and HRD1 Y30 residues. Proteomic screens of SEL1L and HRD1 interactomes revealed that the SEL1L-HRD1 interaction is prerequisite for the formation of a functional HRD1 ERAD complex, as SEL1L recruits not only the lectins OS9 and ERLEC1, but the E2 UBE2J1 and retrotranslocon DERLIN, to HRD1. These data underscore the pathophysiological importance and disease relevance of the SEL1L-HRD1 complex, and identify a key step in organizing the HRD1 ERAD complex.
PXD035574	37336883	Structural insights into regulation of the PEAK3 pseudokinase scaffold by 14-3-3. 	Structural insightsStructural insights into regulation of the PEAK3 pseudokinase scaffold  by 14-3-3  into regulation of the PEAK3 pseudokinase scaffold  by 14-3-3	AP-MS, PEAK3	PEAK pseudokinases are molecular scaffolds which dimerize to regulate cell migration, morphology, and proliferation, as well as cancer progression. The mechanistic role dimerization plays in PEAK scaffolding remains unclear, as there are no structures of PEAKs in complex with their interactors. Here, we report the cryo-EM structure of dimeric PEAK3 in complex with an endogenous 14-3-3 heterodimer. Our structure reveals an asymmetric binding mode between PEAK3 and 14-3-3 stabilized by one pseudokinase domain and the SHED domain of the PEAK3 dimer. The binding interface contains a canonical phosphosite-dependent primary interaction and a unique secondary interaction not observed in previous structures of 14-3-3/client complexes. Additionally, we show that PKD regulates PEAK3/14-3-3 binding, which when prevented leads to PEAK3 nuclear enrichment and distinct protein-protein interactions. Altogether, our data demonstrate that PEAK3 dimerization forms an unusual secondary interface for 14-3-3 binding, facilitating 14-3-3 regulation of PEAK3 localization and interactome diversity.
PXD041711	37337103	Lactation-associated macrophages exist in murine mammary tissue and human milk. 	Distinct lactation-associated macrophages exist in murine mammary tissue and human milk	lactation, macrophages, mammary gland, milk	Macrophages are involved in immune defense, organogenesis and tissue homeostasis. Macrophages contribute to the different phases of mammary gland remodeling during development, pregnancy and involution postlactation. Less is known about the dynamics of mammary gland macrophages in the lactation stage. Here, we describe a macrophage population present during lactation in mice. By multiparameter flow cytometry and single-cell RNA sequencing, we identified a lactation-induced CD11c(+)CX3CR1(+)Dectin-1(+) macrophage population (liMac) that was distinct from the two resident F4/80(hi) and F4/80(lo) macrophage subsets present pregestationally. LiMacs were predominantly monocyte-derived and expanded by proliferation in situ concomitant with nursing. LiMacs developed independently of IL-34, but required CSF-1 signaling and were partly microbiota-dependent. Locally, they resided adjacent to the basal cells of the alveoli and extravasated into the milk. We found several macrophage subsets in human milk that resembled liMacs. Collectively, these findings reveal the emergence of unique macrophages in the mammary gland and milk during lactation.
PXD041556	37337119	Enhanced BCAT1 activity and BCAA metabolism promotes RhoC activity in cancer progression. 	Human Cell 293T BCAT1 IP GC-LC-MS	Huamn BCAT1 IP-MS	Increased expression of branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 or 2 (BCAT1 and BCAT2) has been associated with aggressive phenotypes of different cancers. Here we identify a gain of function of BCAT1 glutamic acid to alanine mutation at codon 61 (BCAT1(E61A)) enriched around 2.8% in clinical gastric cancer samples. We found that BCAT1(E61A) confers higher enzymatic activity to boost branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolism, accelerate cell growth and motility and contribute to tumor development. BCAT1 directly interacts with RhoC, leading to elevation of RhoC activity. Notably, the BCAA-derived metabolite, branched-chain alpha-keto acid directly binds to the small GTPase protein RhoC and promotes its activity. BCAT1 knockout-suppressed cell motility could be rescued by expressing BCAT1(E61A) or adding branched-chain alpha-keto acid. We also identified that candesartan acts as an inhibitor of BCAT1(E61A), thus repressing RhoC activity and cancer cell motility in vitro and preventing peritoneal metastasis in vivo. Our study reveals a link between BCAA metabolism and cell motility and proliferation through regulating RhoC activation, with potential therapeutic implications for cancers.
PXD034385	37338959	Mechanistic Insight into the Inhibitory Activity of Elasnin-Based Coating against Early Marine Biofilms. 	Mechanistic insight into elasnin's inhibitory effect on marine biofilms	Elasnin, biofilms, marine, marine biofilms	Marine biofilms are multispecies microbial communities on surfaces that are crucial to the marine environment. They cause marine corrosion, biofouling, and transmission of marine pathogens and thus pose a great threat to public health and the maritime industry. To control marine biofilms, effective and environmentally friendly antibiofilm compounds are highly needed. Elasnin is a potent antibiofilm compound that exhibits high efficiency in inhibiting marine biofilms and biofouling, but its mode of action remains unclear. In the present study, multiomic analysis combined with quorum-sensing assays and in silico study revealed that elasnin acted as a signaling molecule in the microbial community. Elasnin promoted the growth of dominant species in the biofilm but deprived their ability of sensing and responding to environmental changes by disturbing their regulations of the two-component system, i.e., the ATP-binding cassette transport system and the bacterial secretion system. Consequently, biofilm maturation and subsequent biofouler settlement were inhibited. Elasnin also exhibited higher antibiofilm efficiency than dichlorooctylisothiazolinone and had low toxicity potential on the embryos and adults of marine medaka fish. Overall, this study provided molecular and ecological insights into elasnin's mode of action, highlighting its application potential in controlling marine biofilms and the feasibility and advantages of using signal molecules to develop eco-friendly technologies.
PXD042178	37339624	Structural and mechanistic insights into the CAND1-mediated SCF substrate receptor exchange. 	Structural and mechanistic insights into the CAND1-mediated SCF substrate receptor exchange	CAND1, Cryo-EM, HDX-MS	Modular SCF (SKP1-CUL1-Fbox) ubiquitin E3 ligases orchestrate multiple cellular pathways in eukaryotes. Their variable SKP1-Fbox substrate receptor (SR) modules enable regulated substrate recruitment and subsequent proteasomal degradation. CAND proteins are essential for the efficient and timely exchange of SRs. To gain structural understanding of the underlying molecular mechanism, we reconstituted a human CAND1-driven exchange reaction of substrate-bound SCF alongside its co-E3 ligase DCNL1 and visualized it by cryo-EM. We describe high-resolution structural intermediates, including a ternary CAND1-SCF complex, as well as conformational and compositional intermediates representing SR- or CAND1-dissociation. We describe in molecular detail how CAND1-induced conformational changes in CUL1/RBX1 provide an optimized DCNL1-binding site and reveal an unexpected dual role for DCNL1 in CAND1-SCF dynamics. Moreover, a partially dissociated CAND1-SCF conformation accommodates cullin neddylation, leading to CAND1 displacement. Our structural findings, together with functional biochemical assays, help formulate a detailed model for CAND-SCF regulation.
PXD041656	37339931	Combination of transcriptomic, proteomic, and degradomic profiling reveals common and distinct patterns of pathogen-induced cell death in maize. 	N-terminome analysis of pathogen-induced cell death in maize	FB1, HUNTER, RCD, Zea mays, avrRxo1, plants, regulated cell death	Regulated cell death (RCD) is crucial for plant development, as well as in decision-making in plant-microbe interactions. Previous studies revealed components of the molecular network controlling RCD, including different proteases. However, the identity, the proteolytic network as well as molecular components involved in the initiation and execution of distinct plant RCD processes, still remain largely elusive. In this study, we analyzed the transcriptome, proteome, and N-terminome of Zea mays leaves treated with the Xanthomonas effector avrRxo1, the mycotoxin Fumonisin B1 (FB1), or the phytohormone salicylic acid (SA) to dissect plant cellular processes related to cell death and plant immunity. We found highly distinct and time-dependent biological processes being activated on transcriptional and proteome levels in response to avrRxo1, FB1, and SA. Correlation analysis of the transcriptome and proteome identified general, as well as trigger-specific markers for cell death in Zea mays. We found that proteases, particularly papain-like cysteine proteases, are specifically regulated during RCD. Collectively, this study characterizes distinct RCD responses in Z. mays and provides a framework for the mechanistic exploration of components involved in the initiation and execution of cell death.
PXD038895	37339972	Trans-Golgi protein TVP23B regulates host-microbe interactions via Paneth cell homeostasis and Goblet cell glycosylation. 	Trans-Golgi protein TVP23B regulates host-microbe interactions via Paneth cell homeostasis and Goblet cell glycosylation	Dextran sodium sulfate (DSS), N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU), Paneth Cell, glycosylation, goblet cel, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)	A key feature in intestinal immunity is the dynamic intestinal barrier, which separates the host from resident and pathogenic microbiota through a mucus gel impregnated with antimicrobial peptides. Using a forward genetic screen, we have found a mutation in Tvp23b, which conferred susceptibility to chemically induced and infectious colitis. Trans-Golgi apparatus membrane protein TVP23 homolog B (TVP23B) is a transmembrane protein conserved from yeast to humans. We found that TVP23B controls the homeostasis of Paneth cells and function of goblet cells, leading to a decrease in antimicrobial peptides and more penetrable mucus layer. TVP23B binds with another Golgi protein, YIPF6, which is similarly critical for intestinal homeostasis. The Golgi proteomes of YIPF6 and TVP23B-deficient colonocytes have a common deficiency of several critical glycosylation enzymes. TVP23B is necessary for the formation of the sterile mucin layer of the intestine and its absence disturbs the balance of host and microbe in vivo.
PXD035650	37340602	Differential Protein and Glycan Packaging into Extracellular Vesicles in Response to 3D Gastric Cancer Cellular Organization. 	Differential protein and glycan packaging into extracellular vesicles in response to 3D gastric cancer cellular organization	3D, EVs, gastric cancer, glycosylation	Alterations of the glycosylation machinery are common events in cancer, leading to the synthesis of aberrant glycan structures by tumor cells. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) play a modulatory role in cancer communication and progression, and interestingly, several tumor-associated glycans have already been identified in cancer EVs. Nevertheless, the impact of 3D tumor architecture in the selective packaging of cellular glycans into EVs has never been addressed. In this work, the capacity of gastric cancer cell lines with differential glycosylation is evaluated in producing and releasing EVs when cultured under conventional 2D monolayer or in 3D culture conditions. Furthermore, the proteomic content is identified and specific glycans are studied in the EVs produced by these cells, upon differential spatial organization. Here, it is observed that although the proteome of the analyzed EVs is mostly conserved, an EV differential packaging of specific proteins and glycans is found. In addition, protein-protein interaction and pathway analysis reveal individual signatures on the EVs released by 2D- and 3D-cultured cells, suggesting distinct biological functions. These protein signatures also show a correlation with clinical data. Overall, this data highlight the importance of tumor cellular architecture when assessing the cancer-EV cargo and its biological role.
PXD047486	37340703	"Two Birds One Stone" Strategy for the Site-Specific Analysis of Core Fucosylation and O-GlcNAcylation. 	A "Two birds One Stone" Strategy for Site-specific Analysis of the Core Fucosylation and O-GlcNAcylation	Core Fucosylation, O-GlcNAcylation	Core fucosylation and O-GlcNAcylation are the two most famous protein glycosylation modifications that regulate diverse physiological and pathological processes in living organisms. Here, a "two birds one stone" strategy has been described for the site-specific analysis of core fucosylation and O-GlcNAcylation. Taking advantage of two mutant endoglycosidases (EndoF3-D165A and EndoCC-N180H), which efficiently and specifically recognize core fucose and O-GlcNAc, glycopeptides can be labeled using a biantennary N-glycan probe bearing azido and oxazoline groups. Then, a temperature-sensitive poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) polymer functionalized with dibenzocyclooctyne was introduced to facilitate the enrichment of the labeled glycopeptides from the complex mixture. The captured glycopeptides can be further released enzymatically by wild-type endoglycosidases (EndoF3 and EndoCC) in a traceless manner for mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. The described strategy allows simultaneous profiling of core-fucosylated glycoproteome and O-GlcNAcylated glycoproteome from one complex sample by MS technology and searching the database using different variable modifications.
PXD036741	37340984	Syntaxin-5's flexibility in SNARE pairing supports Golgi functions. 	Syntaxin5's flexibility in SNARE pairing supports Golgi functions	BET1L, COG, GOR1, GOSR2, Golgi, SNAP29, SNAREs, STX5, VTI1B, YKT6, membrane trafficking	Deficiency in the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex that orchestrates SNARE-mediated tethering/fusion of vesicles that recycle the Golgi's glycosylation machinery results in severe glycosylation defects. Although two major Golgi v-SNAREs, GS28/GOSR1, and GS15/BET1L, are depleted in COG-deficient cells, the complete knockout of GS28 and GS15 only modestly affects Golgi glycosylation, indicating the existence of an adaptation mechanism in Golgi SNARE. Indeed, quantitative mass-spectrometry analysis of STX5-interacting proteins revealed two novel Golgi SNARE complexes-STX5/SNAP29/VAMP7 and STX5/VTI1B/STX8/YKT6. These complexes are present in wild-type cells, but their usage is significantly increased in both GS28- and COG-deficient cells. Upon GS28 deletion, SNAP29 increased its Golgi residency in a STX5-dependent manner. While STX5 depletion and Retro2-induced diversion from the Golgi severely affect protein glycosylation, GS28/SNAP29 and GS28/VTI1B double knockouts alter glycosylation similarly to GS28 KO, indicating that a single STX5-based SNARE complex is sufficient to support Golgi glycosylation. Importantly, co-depletion of three Golgi SNARE complexes in GS28/SNAP29/VTI1B TKO cells resulted in severe glycosylation defects and a reduced capacity for glycosylation enzyme retention at the Golgi. This study demonstrates the remarkable plasticity in SXT5-mediated membrane trafficking, uncovering a novel adaptive response to the failure of canonical intra-Golgi vesicle tethering/fusion machinery.
PXD041148	37341467	Progress toward Proteome-Wide Photo-Cross-Linking to Enable Residue-Level Visualization of Protein Structures and Networks In Vivo. 	Progress Toward Proteome-Wide Photo-Crosslinking to Enable Residue-Level Visualization of Protein Structure and Networks in vivo	Cleavable cross-linkers, Diazirines, NHS-carbamate., Photo-crosslinking, Protein interaction networks, Quinary Interactions	Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) is emerging as a method at the crossroads of structural and cellular biology, uniquely capable of identifying protein-protein interactions with residue-level resolution and on the proteome-wide scale. With the development of cross-linkers that can form linkages inside cells and easily cleave during fragmentation on the mass spectrometer (MS-cleavable cross-links), it has become increasingly facile to identify contacts between any two proteins in complex samples, including in live cells or tissues. Photo-cross-linkers possess the advantages of high temporal resolution and high reactivity, thereby engaging all residue-types (rather than just lysine); nevertheless, photo-cross-linkers have not enjoyed widespread use and are yet to be employed for proteome-wide studies because their products are challenging to identify. Here, we demonstrate the synthesis and application of two heterobifunctional photo-cross-linkers that feature diazirines and N-hydroxy-succinimidyl carbamate groups, the latter of which unveil doubly fissile MS-cleavable linkages upon acyl transfer to protein targets. Moreover, these cross-linkers demonstrate high water-solubility and cell-permeability. Using these compounds, we demonstrate the feasibility of proteome-wide photo-cross-linking in cellulo. These studies elucidate a small portion of Escherichia coli's interaction network, albeit with residue-level resolution. With further optimization, these methods will enable the detection of protein quinary interaction networks in their native environment at residue-level resolution, and we expect that they will prove useful toward the effort to explore the molecular sociology of the cell.
PXD036581	37341500	Endothelial ICAM-1 Adhesome Recruits CD44 for Optimal Transcellular Migration of Human CTLs. 	Endothelial ICAM-1 adhesome recruits CD44 for optimal regulation of human cytotoxic T lymphocyte extravasation	CD44, Cytotoxic T cell, endothelial cells, glycocalyx, glycosaminoglycans, hyaluronan, hyaluronic acid, inflammation, transcellular, transendothelial migration	The endothelial lining of blood vessels is covered with a thin polysaccharide coat called the glycocalyx. This layer of polysaccharides contains hyaluronan that forms a protective coat on the endothelial surface. Upon inflammation, leukocytes leave the circulation and enter inflamed tissue by crossing inflamed endothelial cells, mediated by adhesion molecules such as ICAM-1/CD54. To what extent the glycocalyx participates in the regulation of leukocyte transmigration is not clear. During extravasation, leukocyte integrins cluster ICAM-1, resulting in the recruitment of a number of intracellular proteins and subsequent downstream effects in the endothelial cells. For our studies, we used primary human endothelial and immune cells. With an unbiased proteomics approach, we identified the full ICAM-1 adhesome and identified 93 (to our knowledge) new subunits of the ICAM-1 adhesome. Interestingly, we found the glycoprotein CD44 as part of the glycocalyx to be recruited to clustered ICAM-1 specifically. Our data demonstrate that CD44 binds hyaluronan to the endothelial surface, where it locally concentrates and presents chemokines that are essential for leukocytes to cross the endothelial lining. Taken together, we discover a link between ICAM-1 clustering and hyaluronan-mediated chemokine presentation by recruiting hyaluronan to sites of leukocyte adhesion via CD44.
PXD037520	37341631	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Outer Membrane Vesicles from Fusobacterium nucleatum Cultivated in the Mimic Cancer Environment. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of outer membrane vesicles from Fusobacterium nucleatum in the cancer environment	Fusobacterium nucleatum, outer membrane vesicles	Fusobacterium nucleatum is a Gram-negative bacterium that has been identified as an important pathogenic gut bacterium associated with colorectal cancer. Compared with the normal intestine, the pH value of the tumor microenvironment is weakly acidic. The metabolic changes of F. nucleatum in the tumor microenvironment, especially the protein composition of its outer membrane vesicles, remain unclear. Here, we systematically analyzed the effect of environmental pH on the proteome of outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) from F. nucleatum by tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling-high-resolution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. A total of 991 proteins were identified in acidic OMVs (aOMVs) and neutral OMVs (nOMVs), including known virulence proteins and putative virulence proteins. Finally, 306 upregulated proteins and 360 downregulated proteins were detected in aOMVs, and approximately 70% of the expression of OMV proteins was altered under acidic conditions. A total of 29 autotransporters were identified in F. nucleatum OMVs, and 13 autotransporters were upregulated in aOMVs. Interestingly, three upregulated autotransporters (D5REI9, D5RD69, and D5RBW2) show homology to the known virulence factor Fap2, suggesting that they may be involved in various pathogenic pathways such as the pathway for binding with colorectal cancer cells. Moreover, we found that more than 70% of MORN2 domain-containing proteins may have toxic effects on host cells. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses demonstrated that a number of proteins were significantly enriched in multiple pathways involving fatty acid synthesis and butyrate synthesis. Seven metabolic enzymes involved in fatty acid metabolism pathways were identified in the proteomic data, of which 5 were upregulated and 2 were downregulated in aOMVs, while 14 metabolic enzymes involved in the butyric acid metabolic pathway were downregulated in aOMVs. In conclusion, we found a key difference in virulence proteins and pathways in the outer membrane vesicles of F. nucleatum between the tumor microenvironment pH and normal intestinal pH, which provides new clues for the prevention and treatment of colorectal cancer. IMPORTANCE F. nucleatum is an opportunistic pathogenic bacterium that can be enriched in colorectal cancer tissues, affecting multiple stages of colorectal cancer development. OMVs have been demonstrated to play key roles in pathogenesis by delivering toxins and other virulence factors to host cells. By employing quantitative proteomic analysis, we found that the pH conditions could affect the protein expression of the outer membrane vesicles of F. nucleatum. Under acidic conditions, approximately 70% of the expression of proteins in OMVs was altered. Several virulence factors, such as type 5a secreted autotransporter (T5aSSs) and membrane occupation and recognition nexus (MORN) domain-containing proteins, were upregulated under acidic conditions. A large number of proteins showed significant enrichments in multiple pathways involving fatty acid synthesis and butyrate synthesis. Proteomics analysis of the outer membrane vesicles secreted by pathogenic bacteria in the acidic tumor microenvironment is of great significance for elucidating the pathogenicity mechanism and its application in vaccine and drug delivery vehicles.
PXD030385	37341639	Interactome Analysis Identifies MSMEI_3879 as a Substrate of Mycolicibacterium smegmatis ClpC1. 	Interactome analysis by shotgun proteomics identifies a novel substrate for  Mycolicibacterium smegmatis unfoldase ClpC1	Clp protease, Mycolicibacterium smegmatis, shotgun proteomics, tuberculosis, unfoldase ClpC1	The prevalence of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections has prompted extensive efforts to exploit new drug targets in this globally important pathogen. ClpC1, the unfoldase component of the essential ClpC1P1P2 protease, has emerged as one particularly promising antibacterial target. However, efforts to identify and characterize compounds that impinge on ClpC1 activity are constrained by our limited knowledge of Clp protease function and regulation. To expand our understanding of ClpC1 physiology, we employed a coimmunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry workflow to identify proteins that interact with ClpC1 in Mycolicibacterium smegmatis, a surrogate for M. tuberculosis. We identify a diverse panel of interaction partners, many of which coimmunoprecipitate with both the regulatory N-terminal domain and the ATPase core of ClpC1. Notably, our interactome analysis establishes MSMEI_3879, a truncated gene product unique to M. smegmatis, as a novel proteolytic substrate. Degradation of MSMEI_3879 by ClpC1P1P2 in vitro requires exposure of its N-terminal sequence, reinforcing the idea that ClpC1 selectively recognizes disordered motifs on substrates. Fluorescent substrates incorporating MSMEI_3879 may be useful in screening for novel ClpC1-targeting antibiotics to help address the challenge of M. tuberculosis drug resistance. IMPORTANCE Drug-resistant tuberculosis infections are a major challenge to global public health. Much effort has been invested in identifying new drug targets in the causative pathogen, Mycobacterium tuberculosis. One such target is the ClpC1 unfoldase. Compounds have been identified that kill M. tuberculosis by disrupting ClpC1 activity, yet the physiological function of ClpC1 in cells has remained poorly defined. Here, we identify interaction partners of ClpC1 in a model mycobacterium. By building a broader understanding of the role of this prospective drug target, we can more effectively develop compounds that inhibit its essential cellular activities.
PXD043471	37343696	Proteomic Dynamics of Breast Cancer Cell Lines Identifies Potential Therapeutic Protein Targets. 	Proteomic Dynamics of Breast Cancer Cell Lines Identifies Potential Therapeutic Protein Targets	Data-independent acquisition, Proteotype, Triple-negative breast cancer	Treatment and relevant targets for breast cancer (BC) remain limited, especially for triple-negative BC (TNBC). We identified 6091 proteins of 76 human BC cell lines using data-independent acquisition (DIA). Integrating our proteomic findings with prior multi-omics datasets, we found that including proteomics data improved drug sensitivity predictions and provided insights into the mechanisms of action. We subsequently profiled the proteomic changes in nine cell lines (five TNBC and four non-TNBC) treated with EGFR/AKT/mTOR inhibitors. In TNBC, metabolism pathways were dysregulated after EGFR/mTOR inhibitor treatment, while RNA modification and cell cycle pathways were affected by AKT inhibitor. This systematic multi-omics and in-depth analysis of the proteome of BC cells can help prioritize potential therapeutic targets and provide insights into adaptive resistance in TNBC.
PXD041438	37343697	Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Uncovers Interactions Between High-Density Lipoproteins and the SARS-CoV-2 Spike Glycoprotein. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometry uncovers interactions between high-density lipoproteins and the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein	COVID-19, HDL, SASRS-CoV, XL-MS	High-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels are reduced in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), and the extent of this reduction is associated with poor clinical outcomes. While lipoproteins are known to play a key role during the life cycle of the hepatitis C virus, their influence on coronavirus (CoV) infections is poorly understood. In this study, we utilize cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) to determine circulating protein interactors of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein. XL-MS of plasma isolated from patients with COVID-19 uncovered HDL protein interaction networks, dominated by acute-phase serum amyloid proteins, whereby serum amyloid A2 was shown to bind to apolipoprotein (Apo) D. XL-MS on isolated HDL confirmed ApoD to interact with SARS-CoV-2 spike but not SARS-CoV-1 spike. Other direct interactions of SARS-CoV-2 spike upon HDL included ApoA1 and ApoC3. The interaction between ApoD and spike was further validated in cells using immunoprecipitation-MS, which uncovered a novel interaction between both ApoD and spike with membrane-associated progesterone receptor component 1. Mechanistically, XL-MS coupled with data-driven structural modeling determined that ApoD may interact within the receptor-binding domain of the spike. However, ApoD overexpression in multiple cell-based assays had no effect upon viral replication or infectivity. Thus, SARS-CoV-2 spike can bind to apolipoproteins on HDL, but these interactions do not appear to alter infectivity.
PXD036701	37344532	Proteomic analysis of the effect of hemin in breast cancer. 	Proteomic study of a breast cancer cell line following hemin treatment	Breast cancer, Heme oxygenase-1, Hemin	Heme, an iron-containing prosthetic group found in many proteins, carries out diverse biological functions such as electron transfer, oxygen storage and enzymatic reactions. Hemin, the oxidised form of heme, is used to treat porphyria and also to activate heme-oxygenase (HO) which catalyses the rate-limiting step in heme degradation. Our group has previously demonstrated that hemin displays antitumor activity in breast cancer (BC). The aim of this work has been to study the effect of hemin on protein expression modifications in a BC cell line to gain insight into the molecular mechanisms of hemin antitumor activity. For this purpose, we carried out proteome analysis by Mass Spectrometry (MS) which showed that 1309 proteins were significantly increased in hemin-treated cells, including HO-1 and the proteases that regulate HO-1 function, and 921 proteins were significantly decreased. Furthermore, the MS-data analysis showed that hemin regulates the expression of heme- and iron-related proteins, adhesion and cytoskeletal proteins, cancer signal transduction proteins and enzymes involved in lipid metabolism. By biochemical and cellular studies, we further corroborated the most relevant in-silico results. Altogether, these results show the multiple physiological effects that hemin treatment displays in BC and demonstrate its potential as anticancer agent.
PXD041405	37344990	The functional and structural characterization of Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris core effector XopP revealed a new kinase activity. 	The functional and structural characterization of Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris core effector XopP revealed a new kinase activity	Exo70B1, Protein structure prediction, T3SS, exocyst complex, novel kinase function, pathogen XopP effector, plant defense	Exo70B1 is a protein subunit of the exocyst complex with a crucial role in a variety of cell mechanisms, including immune responses against pathogens. The calcium-dependent kinase 5 (CPK5) of Arabidopsis thaliana (hereafter Arabidopsis), phosphorylates AtExo70B1 upon functional disruption. We previously reported that, the Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris effector XopP compromises AtExo70B1, while bypassing the host's hypersensitive response, in a way that is still unclear. Herein we designed an experimental approach, which includes biophysical, biochemical, and molecular assays and is based on structural and functional predictions, utilizing AplhaFold and DALI online servers, respectively, in order to characterize the in vivo XccXopP function. The interaction between AtExo70B1 and XccXopP was found very stable in high temperatures, while AtExo70B1 appeared to be phosphorylated at XccXopP-expressing transgenic Arabidopsis. XccXopP revealed similarities with known mammalian kinases and phosphorylated AtExo70B1 at Ser107, Ser111, Ser248, Thr309, and Thr364. Moreover, XccXopP protected AtExo70B1 from AtCPK5 phosphorylation. Together these findings show that XccXopP is an effector, which not only functions as a novel serine/threonine kinase upon its host target AtExo70B1 but also protects the latter from the innate AtCPK5 phosphorylation, in order to bypass the host's immune responses. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD041405.
PXD030942	37345142	Multi-Omic Analysis of CIC's Functional Networks Reveals Novel Interaction Partners and a Potential Role in Mitotic Fidelity. 	Multi-omic analyses reveal interaction networks linking CIC to cell cycle regulation	CIC, cell cycle, genetic interaction network, protein-protein interaction, single-cell sequencing	CIC encodes a transcriptional repressor and MAPK signalling effector that is inactivated by loss-of-function mutations in several cancer types, consistent with a role as a tumour suppressor. Here, we used bioinformatic, genomic, and proteomic approaches to investigate CIC's interaction networks. We observed both previously identified and novel candidate interactions between CIC and SWI/SNF complex members, as well as novel interactions between CIC and cell cycle regulators and RNA processing factors. We found that CIC loss is associated with an increased frequency of mitotic defects in human cell lines and an in vivo mouse model and with dysregulated expression of mitotic regulators. We also observed aberrant splicing in CIC-deficient cell lines, predominantly at 3' and 5' untranslated regions of genes, including genes involved in MAPK signalling, DNA repair, and cell cycle regulation. Our study thus characterises the complexity of CIC's functional network and describes the effect of its loss on cell cycle regulation, mitotic integrity, and transcriptional splicing, thereby expanding our understanding of CIC's potential roles in cancer. In addition, our work exemplifies how multi-omic, network-based analyses can be used to uncover novel insights into the interconnected functions of pleiotropic genes/proteins across cellular contexts.
PXD006915	37345535	Proteomic analysis reveals mechanisms underlying increased efficacy of bleomycin by photochemical internalization in bladder cancer cells. 	The proteome alterations associated with treatment with Photodynamic Therapy, endosomes after Bleomycine-mediated photochemical internalization on rat bladder cancer cells	Endosome, PCI, PDT, SILAC	Photochemical internalization (PCI) is a promising new technology for site-specific drug delivery, developed from photodynamic therapy (PDT). In PCI, light-induced activation of a photosensitizer trapped inside endosomes together with e.g. chemotherapeutics, nucleic acids or immunotoxins, allows cytosolic delivery and enhanced local therapeutic effect. Here we have evaluated the photosensitizer meso-tetraphenyl chlorine disulphonate (TPCS2a/fimaporfin) in a proteome analysis of AY-27 rat bladder cancer cells in combination with the chemotherapeutic drug bleomycin (BML). We find that BLMPCI attenuates oxidative stress responses induced by BLM alone, while concomitantly increasing transcriptional repression and DNA damage responses. BLMPCI also mediates downregulation of bleomycin hydrolase (Blmh), which is responsible for cellular degradation of BLM, as well as several factors known to be involved in fibrotic responses. PCI-mediated delivery might thus allow reduced dosage of BLM and alleviate unwanted side effects from treatment, including pulmonary fibrosis.
PXD042811	37347174	Potential Role of Lysine Acetylation and Autophagy in Brown Film Formation and Postripening of Lentinula edodes Mycelium. 	Potential role of lysine acetylation in brown film formation and post-ripening of Lentinula edodes mycelium	Lentinula edodes, brown film formation, lysine acetylation	Lentinula edodes is one of the most widely cultivated edible mushrooms in the world. When cultivated in sawdust, the surface mycelium of L. edodes needs a long postripening stage wherein it forms a brown film (BF) by secreting and accumulating pigments. BF formation is critical for the high quality and yield of fruiting bodies. Protein lysine acetylation (KAC) is an important post-translational modification that regulates growth and development. Previous studies have shown that deacetylase levels are significantly increased during BF formation in the postripening stage of L. edodes. The aim of this study was to assess the role of protein acetylation during BF formation. To this end, we compared the acetylome of L. edodes mycelia before and after BF formation using anti-acetyl antibody-based label-free quantitative proteomics. We identified 5,613 acetylation sites in 1,991 proteins, and quantitative information was available for 4,848 of these sites in 1,815 proteins. Comparative acetylome analysis showed that the modification of 699 sites increased and that of 562 sites decreased during BF formation. Bioinformatics analysis of the differentially acetylated proteins showed significant enrichment in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and proteasome pathways. Furthermore, functional assays showed that BF formation is associated with significant changes in the activities of proteasome, citrate synthase, and isocitrate dehydrogenase. Consistent with this hypothesis, the lysine deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin (TSA) delayed autophagy and BF formation in L. edodes. Taken together, KAC and autophagy play important roles in the mycelial BF formation and postripening stage of L. edodes. IMPORTANCE Mycelial BF formation and postripening of L. edodes affects the quality and quantity of its edible fruiting bodies. In this study, we explored the role of protein KAC in this biological process, with the aim of optimizing the cultivation and yield of L. edodes.
PXD035876	37347663	FIRRM/C1orf112 is synthetic lethal with PICH and mediates RAD51 dynamics. 	The FIGNL1-interacting protein C1orf112 is synthetic lethal with PICH and mediates RAD51 retention on chromatin	Homologous recombination rad51 c1orf112 dna repair flag ip	Joint DNA molecules are natural byproducts of DNA replication and repair. Persistent joint molecules give rise to ultrafine DNA bridges (UFBs) in mitosis, compromising sister chromatid separation. The DNA translocase PICH (ERCC6L) has a central role in UFB resolution. A genome-wide loss-of-function screen is performed to identify the genetic context of PICH dependency. In addition to genes involved in DNA condensation, centromere stability, and DNA-damage repair, we identify FIGNL1-interacting regulator of recombination and mitosis (FIRRM), formerly known as C1orf112. We find that FIRRM interacts with and stabilizes the AAA(+) ATPase FIGNL1. Inactivation of either FIRRM or FIGNL1 results in UFB formation, prolonged accumulation of RAD51 at nuclear foci, and impaired replication fork dynamics and consequently impairs genome maintenance. Combined, our data suggest that inactivation of FIRRM and FIGNL1 dysregulates RAD51 dynamics at replication forks, resulting in persistent DNA lesions and a dependency on PICH to preserve cell viability.
PXD040608	37347740	Peptide encoded by lncRNA BVES-AS1 promotes cell viability, migration, and invasion in colorectal cancer cells via the SRC/mTOR signaling pathway. 	Identification of a peptide encoded by lncRNA BVES-AS1 as an oncogenic factor in colorectal cancer via the SRC/mTOR signaling pathway	BVES-AS1-encoded peptides, IP-MS	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been revealed to harbor open reading frames (ORFs) that can be translated into small peptides. The peptides may participate in the pathogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC). Herein, we investigated the role of a lncRNA BVES-AS1-encoded peptide in colorectal tumorigenesis. Through bioinformatic analysis, lncRNA BVES-AS1 was predicted to have encoding potential and to be associated with poor prognosis of patients with CRC. In CRC cells, BVES-AS1 was validated to encode a 50-aa-length micro-peptide, named BVES-AS1-201-50aa, through a western blotting method. BVES-AS1-201-50aa enhanced cell viability and promoted the migratory and invasive capacities of HCT116 and SW480 CRC cells in vitro, validated via CCK-8 assay and transwell assay, respectively. Immunofluorescence assay showed that BVES-AS1-201-50aa increased the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) in CRC cells. We further verified that BVES-AS1-201-50aa targeted and activated the Src/mTOR signaling pathway in CRC cells by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) experiment, qualitative proteomic analysis, and western blotting. Our findings demonstrated that BVES-AS1 could encode a micro-peptide, which promoted CRC cell viability, migration, and invasion in vitro. Our current work broadens the diversity and breadth of lncRNAs in human carcinogenesis.
PXD042540	37347777	Characterization of the biochemical activity and tumor-promoting role of the dual protein methyltransferase METL-13/METTL13 in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	Characterization of the biochemical activity and tumor-promoting role of the dual protein methyltransferase METL-13/METTL13 in Caenorhabditis elegans	C. elegans, METTL13, eEF1A, methylation, protein synthesis	The methyltransferase-like protein 13 (METTL13) methylates the eukaryotic elongation factor 1 alpha (eEF1A) on two locations: the N-terminal amino group and lysine 55. The absence of this methylation leads to reduced protein synthesis and cell proliferation in human cancer cells. Previous studies showed that METTL13 is dispensable in non-transformed cells, making it potentially interesting for cancer therapy. However, METTL13 has not been examined yet in whole animals. Here, we used the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans as a simple model to assess the functions of METTL13. Using methyltransferase assays and mass spectrometry, we show that the C. elegans METTL13 (METL-13) methylates eEF1A (EEF-1A) in the same way as the human protein. Crucially, the cancer-promoting role of METL-13 is also conserved and depends on the methylation of EEF-1A, like in human cells. At the same time, METL-13 appears dispensable for animal growth, development, and stress responses. This makes C. elegans a convenient whole-animal model for studying METL13-dependent carcinogenesis without the complications of interfering with essential wild-type functions.
PXD043118	37348606	Blood- and Urine-Based Liquid Biopsy for Early-Stage Cancer Investigation: Taken Clear Renal Cell Carcinoma as a Model. 	Blood and Urine-Based Liquid Biopsy for early stage cancer investigation: Taken Clear Renal Cell Carcinoma as A Model	Biomarker, Plasma. Urine, Renal cancer	Liquid biopsy is a noninvasive technique that can provide valuable information for disease characterization by using biofluids as a source of biomarkers. Proteins found in biofluids can offer a wealth of information for understanding pathological processes. In this study, we used early-stage clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) as a model to explore the proteomic relationships among tissue, plasma, and urine. We analyzed samples of tumor tissue, plasma, and urine from a cohort of 27 ccRCC patients with T1-2 stage and 27 matched healthy controls, using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) for proteomic analysis. We integrated the differential proteins found in the three types of samples to explore ccRCC-associated molecular changes. Our results showed that both plasma and urine proteomes could reflect functional changes in tumor tissue. In plasma, cytoskeletal proteins and metabolic enzymes were differentially expressed, while in urine, adhesion molecules and defense proteins showed differential levels. The differential proteins found in plasma and urine both reflect the binding and catalytic activity of tumor tissue. Additionally, proteins only changed in biofluids could reflect body immune response changes, with plasma proteins involved in actin cytoskeleton and oxidative stress, and urine proteins involved in granulocyte adhesion and leukocyte extravasation signaling. Plasma and urine proteins could effectively distinguish RCC from control, with good performances (plasma/urine: 92.6%/92.6% specificity, 96.3%/92.6% sensitivity, and an area under the curve of 0.981/0.97). In conclusion, biofluids could not only reflect functional changes in tumor tissue but also reflect changes in the body's immune response. These findings will benefit the understanding of body biomarkers in tumors and the discovery of potential disease biomarkers.
PXD042189	37348680	Mercury intoxication disrupts tonic signaling in B cells, and may promote autoimmunity due to abnormal phosphorylation of STIM-1 and other autoimmunity risk associated phosphoproteins involved in BCR signaling. 	Mercury intoxication disrupts tonic signaling in B cells, and may promote autoimmunity due to abnormal phosphorylation of STIM-1 and other autoimmunity risk associated phosphoproteins involved in BCR signaling	B cells, BCR, STIM1, autoimmunity, immunotoxicity, mercury, phospho-serine, phosphorylation	Epidemiological studies link exposure to mercury with autoimmune disease. Unfortunately, in spite of considerable effort, no generally accepted mechanistic understanding of how mercury functions with respect to the etiology of autoimmune disease is currently available. Nevertheless, autoimmune disease often arises because of defective B cell signaling. Because B cell signaling is dependent on phosphorylation cascades, in this report, we have focused on how mercury intoxication alters phosphorylation of B cell proteins in antigen-non stimulated (tonic) mouse (BALB/c) splenic B cells. Specifically, we utilized mass spectrometric techniques to conduct a comprehensive unbiased global analysis of the effect of inorganic mercury (Hg(2+)) on the entire B cell phosphoproteome. We found that the effects were pleotropic in the sense that large numbers of pathways were impacted. However, confirming our earlier work, we found that the B cell signaling pathway stood out from the rest, in that phosphoproteins which had sites which were affected by Hg(2+), exhibited a much higher degree of connectivity, than components of other pathways. Further analysis showed that many of these BCR pathway proteins had been previously linked to autoimmune disease. Finally, dose response analysis of these BCR pathway proteins showed STIM1_S575, and NFAT2_S259 are the two most Hg(2+) sensitive of these sites. Because STIM1_S575 controls the ability of STIM1 to regulate internal Ca(2+), we speculate that STIM1 may be the initial point of disruption, where Hg(2+) interferes with B cell signaling leading to systemic autoimmunity, with the molecular effects pleiotropically propagated throughout the cell by virtue of Ca(2+) dysregulation.
PXD051980	37350639	Optimizing metaproteomics database construction: lessons from a study of the vaginal microbiome. 	Human CVL LC-MSMS to Elucidate Functions in Bacterial Vaginosis	Human Vagina LC-MSMS BV	Metaproteomics, a method for untargeted, high-throughput identification of proteins in complex samples, provides functional information about microbial communities and can tie functions to specific taxa. Metaproteomics often generates less data than other omics techniques, but analytical workflows can be improved to increase usable data in metaproteomic outputs. Identification of peptides in the metaproteomic analysis is performed by comparing mass spectra of sample peptides to a reference database of protein sequences. Although these protein databases are an integral part of the metaproteomic analysis, few studies have explored how database composition impacts peptide identification. Here, we used cervicovaginal lavage (CVL) samples from a study of bacterial vaginosis (BV) to compare the performance of databases built using six different strategies. We evaluated broad versus sample-matched databases, as well as databases populated with proteins translated from metagenomic sequencing of the same samples versus sequences from public repositories. Smaller sample-matched databases performed significantly better, driven by the statistical constraints on large databases. Additionally, large databases attributed up to 34% of significant bacterial hits to taxa absent from the sample, as determined orthogonally by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. We also tested a set of hybrid databases which included bacterial proteins from NCBI RefSeq and translated bacterial genes from the samples. These hybrid databases had the best overall performance, identifying 1,068 unique human and 1,418 unique bacterial proteins, ~30% more than a database populated with proteins from typical vaginal bacteria and fungi. Our findings can help guide the optimal identification of proteins while maintaining statistical power for reaching biological conclusions. IMPORTANCE Metaproteomic analysis can provide valuable insights into the functions of microbial and cellular communities by identifying a broad, untargeted set of proteins. The databases used in the analysis of metaproteomic data influence results by defining what proteins can be identified. Moreover, the size of the database impacts the number of identifications after accounting for false discovery rates (FDRs). Few studies have tested the performance of different strategies for building a protein database to identify proteins from metaproteomic data and those that have largely focused on highly diverse microbial communities. We tested a range of databases on CVL samples and found that a hybrid sample-matched approach, using publicly available proteins from organisms present in the samples, as well as proteins translated from metagenomic sequencing of the samples, had the best performance. However, our results also suggest that public sequence databases will continue to improve as more bacterial genomes are published.
PXD033133	37352829	CFAP70 is a solid and valuable target for the genetic diagnosis of oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia in infertile men. 	Differentially expressed proteins between WT testis and Cfap70-KO testis	Cfap70-KO testis	BACKGROUND: Male infertility is a worldwide population health concern, but its aetiology remains largely understood. Although CFAP70 variants have already been reported in two oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia (OAT) individuals by sequencing, animal evidence to support CFAP70 as a credible OAT-pathogenic gene is lacking. METHOD: Cfap70-KO mice were generated to explore the physiological role of CFAP70. CFAP70 variants were detected in infertile men with OAT by whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing confirmation. Cfap70-truncated mice were further generated to explore the pathogenicity of the nonsense variant of CFAP70 identified in the proband. FINDINGS: Here, we demonstrate that Cfap70-KO mice are sterile mainly due to OAT and further identify a Chinese infertile man carrying a homozygous nonsense variant (c.2962C > T/p.R988X) of CFAP70. Cfap70-truncated mice lacking 5-8 tetratricopeptide repeats (TPRs) mimic the patient's symptoms. CFAP70 is required for the biogenesis of spermatid flagella partially by regulating the expression of OAT-associated proteins (e.g., QRICH2), assisting the cytoplasmic preassembly of the calmodulin- and radial spoke-associated complex (CSC), and controlling the manchette localization of axoneme-related proteins. Moreover, we suggest that CFAP70-associated male infertility could be overcome by intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatment. INTERPRETATION: Overall, we demonstrate that CFAP70 is necessary to assemble spermatid flagella and that CFAP70 gene could be used as a diagnostic target for male infertility with OAT in the clinic. FUNDING: This study was supported by the National Key Research and Development Project (2019YFA0802101 to S.C), Open Fund of Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Regulation Biology, Ministry of Education (to S.C), Central Government to Guide Local Scientific and Technological Development (ZY21195023 to B.W), and Basic Research Projects of Central Scientific Research Institutes (to B.W).
PXD043265	37353004	Proteome Landscapes of Human Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma. 	Proteome Landscapes of Human Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma	hepatocellular carcinoma, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Liver cancer is among the top leading causes of cancer mortality worldwide. Particularly, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) have been extensively investigated from the aspect of tumor biology. However, a comprehensive and systematic understanding of the molecular characteristics of HCC and CCA remains absent. Here, we characterized the proteome landscapes of HCC and CCA using the data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry (MS) method. By comparing the quantitative proteomes of HCC and CCA, we found several differences between the two cancer types. In particular, we found an abnormal lipid metabolism in HCC and activated extracellular matrix-related pathways in CCA. We next developed a three-protein classifier to distinguish CCA from HCC, achieving an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.92, and an accuracy of 90% in an independent validation cohort of 51 patients. The distinct molecular characteristics of HCC and CCA presented in this study provide new insights into the tumor biology of these two major important primary liver cancers. Our findings may help develop more efficient diagnostic approaches and new targeted drug treatments.
PXD039365	37353617	Chromatin-associated OGT promotes the malignant progression of hepatocellular carcinoma by activating ZNF263. 	Chromatin-associated OGT promotes hepatocellular carcinoma malignancy via activating ZNF263	O-GlcNAc, OGT, ZNF263	Reversible and dynamic O-GlcNAcylation regulates vast networks of highly coordinated cellular and nuclear processes. Although dysregulation of the sole enzyme O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) was shown to be associated with the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the mechanisms by which OGT controls the cis-regulatory elements in the genome and performs transcriptional functions remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that elevated OGT levels enhance HCC proliferation and metastasis, in vitro and in vivo, by orchestrating the transcription of numerous regulators of malignancy. Diverse transcriptional regulators are recruited by OGT in HCC cells undergoing malignant progression, which shapes genome-wide OGT chromatin cis-element occupation. Furthermore, an unrecognized cooperation between ZNF263 and OGT is crucial for activating downstream transcription in HCC cells. We reveal that O-GlcNAcylation of Ser662 is responsible for the chromatin association of ZNF263 at candidate gene promoters and the OGT-facilitated HCC malignant phenotypes. Our data establish the importance of aberrant OGT activity and ZNF263 O-GlcNAcylation in the malignant progression of HCC and support the investigation of OGT as a therapeutic target for HCC.
PXD039022	37353646	Serum proteome profiling of naturally acquired Babesia rossi infection in dogs. 	Serum proteome profiling in canine babesiosis caused by Babesia rossi	TMT proteomics, dog, host-parasite interaction, serum	Babesiosis is a disease of significant medically and veterinary importance with worldwide distribution. It is caused by intra-erythrocyte protozoal parasites, with Babesia rossi causing the most severe clinical signs of all the large Babesia parasites infecting dogs. The disease can be clinically classified into uncomplicated and complicated forms with a wide range of clinical presentations from a mild, subclinical illness to complicated forms and death. The aim of this study was to assess serum proteomic profiles from dogs with babesiosis and healthy dogs using a label-based proteomics approach. Altogether 32 dogs naturally infected with B. rossi (subdivided into 18 uncomplicated cases and 14 complicated cases of babesiosis) and 20 healthy dogs were included. There were 78 proteins with significantly different abundances between the three groups of dogs. Elucidation of proteins and pathways involved in canine babesiosis caused by B. rossi have revealed key differences associated with haemostasis, innate immune system, lipid metabolism and inflammation. Shotgun proteomic profiling allowed identification of potential serum biomarkers for differentiation of disease severity in canine babesiosis caused by B. rossi. These findings may be applicable to the study of host-parasite interactions and the development of novel therapeutic targets.
PXD039296	37353852	Development of a method for isolating brain capillaries from a single neonatal mouse brain and comparison of proteomic profiles between neonatal and adult brain capillaries. 	Proteome analysis of neonatal mouse brain and brain capillaries	DIA, brain, brain capillary	BACKGROUND: The functions and protein expressions of the blood-brain barrier are changed throughout brain development following birth. This study aimed to develop a method to isolate brain capillaries from a single frozen neonatal mouse brain and elucidate the enrichment of brain capillaries by quantitative proteomic analysis. We further compared the expression profile of proteins between neonatal and adult brain capillary fractions. METHODS: The brain capillary fraction was prepared by the optimized method from a single frozen mouse neonatal brain on postnatal day 7. The brain capillary fractions and brain lysates were digested by trypsin and analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry for quantitative proteomics. RESULTS: By optimizing the isolation method, we observed brain capillaries in the fraction prepared from a single neonatal mouse brain (nBC fraction). A protein amount of 31.5 mug, which is enough for proteomic analysis, was recovered from the nBC fraction. By proteomics analysis, the brain capillary selective proteins, including Abcb1a/Mdr1, Slc2a1/Glut1, Claudin-5, and Pecam-1, were found to be concentrated > 13.4-fold more in nBC fractions than in whole brain lysates. The marker proteins for neurons and astrocytes were not concentrated in nBC fractions, while those of pericytes and microglia were concentrated. Compared to adult mouse brain capillary fractions (aBC fractions), the expressions of Abcb1a/Mdr1a, Abcc4/Mrp4, and Slc2a1/Glut1 were significantly lower in nBC fractions than in aBC fractions, whereas those of Slc1a4/Asct1, Slc1a5/Asct2, Slc7a1/Cat1, and Slc16a1/Mct1 were significantly higher. Amino acid transporters, Slc38a5/Snat5, showed the greatest nBC-to-aBC ratio among transporters (9.83-fold). Network analysis of proteins expressed differentially between nBC and aBC fractions revealed that the proteins with terms related to the extracellular matrix were enriched. CONCLUSIONS: We succeeded in isolating brain capillaries from a single frozen brain of a neonatal mouse at postnatal day 7. Proteomic analysis revealed the differential expression in brain capillaries between neonatal and adult mice. Specifically, amino acid transporters, including Slc1a5/Asct2 and Slc38a5/Snat5, were found to be induced in neonatal brain capillaries. The present isolation method will promote the study of the function and expression of the neonatal blood-brain barrier.
PXD038414	37354906	Peptide-mediated inhibition of the transcriptional regulator Elongin BC induces apoptosis in cancer cells. 	Peptide-mediated inhibition of the transcriptional regulator Elongin BC induces apoptosis in cancer cells	Cancer, EPOP, Elongin BC, PRC2, Peptide Inhibition	Inhibition of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) via designed peptides is an effective strategy to perturb their biological functions. The Elongin BC heterodimer (ELOB/C) binds to a BC-box motif and is essential for cancer cell growth. Here, we report a peptide that mimics the high-affinity BC-box of the PRC2-associated protein EPOP. This peptide tightly binds to the ELOB/C dimer (kD = 0.46 +/- 0.02 nM) and blocks the association of ELOB/C with its interaction partners, both in vitro and in the cellular environment. Cancer cells treated with our peptide inhibitor showed decreased cell viability, increased apoptosis, and perturbed gene expression. Therefore, our work proposes that blocking the BC-box-binding pocket of ELOB/C is a feasible strategy to impair its function and inhibit cancer cell growth. Our peptide inhibitor promises novel mechanistic insights into the biological function of the ELOB/C dimer and offers a starting point for therapeutics linked to ELOB/C dysfunction.
PXD041791	37355741	Environmental influences on Streptococcus sanguinis membrane vesicle biogenesis. 	Proteomic characterization of extracellular membrane vesicles from Streptococcus sanguinis	Streptococcus sanguinis, commensalism, membrane vesicles, oral microbiome	Membrane vesicles are produced by Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. While membrane vesicles are potent elicitors of eukaryotic cells and involved in cell-cell communication, information is scarce about their general biology in the context of community members and the environment. Streptococcus sanguinis, a Gram-positive oral commensal, is prevalent in the oral cavity and well-characterized for its ability to antagonize oral pathobionts. We have found that production and dissemination of membrane vesicles by S. sanguinis is dependent on environmental and community factors. Co-culture with interacting commensal Corynebacterium durum, as well as with the periodontal pathobiont Filifactor alocis had no effect on S. sanguinis vesicle number and size, whereas the periodontal pathobiont Porphyromonas gingivalis abolished S. sanguinis vesicle production. Using both correlation and differential expression analyses to examine the transcriptomic changes underlying vesicle production, we found that differential expression of genes encoding proteins related to the cytoplasmic membrane and peptidoglycan correlate with the abundance of membrane vesicles. Proteomic characterizations of the vesicle cargo identified a variety of proteins, including those predicted to influence host interactions or host immune responses. Cell culture studies of gingival epithelial cells demonstrated that both crude and highly purified membrane vesicles could induce the expression of IL-8, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and Gro-alpha within 6 hours of inoculation at levels comparable to whole cells. Our findings suggest that production of membrane vesicles by S. sanguinis is heavily influenced by community and environmental factors and plays an important role in communication with host cells.
PXD042631	37355765	A PPIX-binding probe facilitates discovery of PPIX-induced cell death modulation by peroxiredoxin. 	Proteomic Profiling of PPIX-binding proteins between cell types	PRDX3, Protoporphyrin IX, TMT, ferroptosis, reactive oxygen species.	While heme synthesis requires the formation of a potentially lethal intermediate, protoporphyrin IX (PPIX), surprisingly little is known about the mechanism of its toxicity, aside from its phototoxicity. The cellular protein interactions of PPIX might provide insight into modulators of PPIX-induced cell death. Here we report the development of PPB, a biotin-conjugated, PPIX-probe that captures proteins capable of interacting with PPIX. Quantitative proteomics in a diverse panel of mammalian cell lines reveal a high degree of concordance for PPB-interacting proteins identified for each cell line. Most differences are quantitative, despite marked differences in PPIX formation and sensitivity. Pathway and quantitative difference analysis indicate that iron and heme metabolism proteins are prominent among PPB-bound proteins in fibroblasts, which undergo PPIX-mediated death determined to occur through ferroptosis. PPB proteomic data (available at PRIDE ProteomeXchange # PXD042631) reveal that redox proteins from PRDX family of glutathione peroxidases interact with PPIX. Targeted gene knockdown of the mitochondrial PRDX3, but not PRDX1 or 2, enhance PPIX-induced death in fibroblasts, an effect blocked by the radical-trapping antioxidant, ferrostatin-1. Increased PPIX formation and death was also observed in a T-lymphoblastoid ferrochelatase-deficient leukemia cell line, suggesting that PPIX elevation might serve as a potential strategy for killing certain leukemias.
PXD042238	37356722	The RNA-binding protein ZC3H11A interacts with the nuclear poly(A)-binding protein PABPN1 and alters polyadenylation of viral transcripts. 	ZC3H11A interacts with PABPN1 and alters polyadenylation of viral transcripts	PABPN1, ZC3H11A, adenovirus, polyadenylation, zinc finger protein	Nuclear mRNA metabolism is regulated by multiple proteins, which either directly bind to RNA or form multiprotein complexes. The RNA-binding protein ZC3H11A is involved in nuclear mRNA export, NF-kappaB signaling, and is essential during mouse embryo development. Furthermore, previous studies have shown that ZC3H11A is important for nuclear-replicating viruses. However, detailed biochemical characterization of the ZC3H11A protein has been lacking. In this study, we established the ZC3H11A protein interactome in human and mouse cells. We demonstrate that the nuclear poly(A)-binding protein PABPN1 interacts specifically with the ZC3H11A protein and controls ZC3H11A localization into nuclear speckles. We report that ZC3H11A specifically interacts with the human adenovirus type 5 (HAdV-5) capsid mRNA in a PABPN1-dependent manner. Notably, ZC3H11A uses the same zinc finger motifs to interact with PABPN1 and viral mRNA. Further, we demonstrate that the lack of ZC3H11A alters the polyadenylation of HAdV-5 capsid mRNA. Taken together, our results suggest that the ZC3H11A protein may act as a novel regulator of polyadenylation of nuclear mRNA.
PXD038908	37358480	Resistance mechanism to Notch inhibition and combination therapy in human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 	Resistance mechanism to Notch inhibition and combination therapy in human T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia	Notch1, PIK3R1, T-ALL, combination therapies, resistance mechanisms	Gain-of-function mutations in NOTCH1 are among the most frequent genetic alterations in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), highlighting the Notch signaling pathway as a promising therapeutic target for personalized medicine. Yet, a major limitation for long-term success of targeted therapy is relapse due to tumor heterogeneity or acquired resistance. Thus, we performed a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen to identify prospective resistance mechanisms to pharmacological NOTCH inhibitors and novel targeted combination therapies to efficiently combat T-ALL. Mutational loss of phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1) causes resistance to Notch inhibition. PIK3R1 deficiency leads to increased PI3K/AKT signaling, which regulates cell cycle and the spliceosome machinery, both at the transcriptional and posttranslational level. Moreover, several therapeutic combinations have been identified, in which simultaneous targeting of the cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) and NOTCH proved to be the most efficacious in T-ALL xenotransplantation models.
PXD040607	37358745	LncRNA MAGI2-AS3-Encoded Polypeptide Restrains the Proliferation and Migration of Breast Cancer Cells. 	LncRNA MAGI2-AS3-encoded polypeptide restrains the proliferation and migration of breast cancer cells	IP-MS, LncRNA MAGI2-AS3-encoded peptides	Accumulating articles have reported the coding potential of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). However, only a few lncRNAs-encoded peptides have been studied. Breast cancer (BRCA) progression-related gene modules were determined by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Cell viability, proliferation, and migration capacities were assessed by Cell counting kit-8 (CCK8), 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), and transwell assays. Immunofluorescence (IF) assay was implemented to observe protein expression. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) were employed to analyze MAGI2 antisense RNA 3 (MAGI2-AS3)-ORF5-interacted proteins. WGCNA identified that MEpurple and MEblack modules were significantly negatively correlated with T stage in BRCA patients. MAGI2-AS3 was screened as one of the differentially expressed (DE) lncRNAs with translational potential in MEblack and MEpurple modules in BRCA. The data in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) uncovered that MAGI2-AS3 abundance was significantly decreased in invasive BRCA patients, and it had high diagnostic and prognostic values. MAGI2-AS3-ORF5 notably restrained BRCA cell viability, proliferation, and migration. Mechanically, MAGI2-AS3-ORF5 might affect the progression of BRCA cells by binding to extracellular matrix (ECM)-related proteins. MAGI2-AS3-ORF5 played an anti-tumor role by inhibiting BRCA cell viability, proliferation, and migration. MAGI2-AS3-ORF5 might modulate BRCA cell migration through ECM-associated proteins.
PXD039170	37358939	Deep proteome investigation of high-grade gliomas reveals heterogeneity driving differential metabolism of 5-aminolevulinic acid. 	Proteomics analysis of High-grade glioma tissues showing differential fluorescence following 5-Aminolevulinic acid guided surgery	5-Aminolevulinic acid, Deep proteome, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, Heme Biosynthesis, High-grade gliomas, LC-MS, Protoporphyrin IX	Background: Fluorescence-guided surgery (FGS) using 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) as adjunct for high-grade gliomas (HGGs) has been on the rise in recent years. Despite being largely effective, we observed multiple histologically similar sub-regions of the same tumor from a few individuals with varying protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) levels. The current study aims at understanding the proteomic changes driving differential metabolism of 5-ALA in HGGs. Methods: Biopsies were histologically and biochemically assayed. Following this, a deep proteomics investigation was carried out using high resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HR LC-MS) to identify protein expression in differentially fluorescing regions of HGGs. Results: Our analysis identified 5437 proteins with high confidence. Differential analysis in the subgroup with HGGs carrying IDH mutation (IDH mt.) revealed 93 differentially regulated proteins (raw p-value <= 0.05 and absolute FC >= 1.5). Similar analysis in the IDH wild type (IDH wt.) subgroup revealed 20 differentially regulated proteins. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) identified key pathways like ion channel transport, trafficking of AMPA receptors, and regulation of heme-oxygenase-1 in the IDH wt. subgroup. Pathways such as scavenging of heme, signaling by NOTCH4, negative regulation of PI3-AKT pathway, and iron uptake and transport were observed to be differentially regulated in the IDH mt. subgroup. Conclusions: Tumor regions from the same patient exhibiting differential fluorescence following 5-ALA administration were observed to have different proteome profiles. Future studies aimed at a better molecular understanding of 5-ALA metabolism in HGGs hold the potential to increase the efficacy of FGS and the use of 5-ALA as a theragnostic tool.
PXD038299	37360684	iTAG an optimized IMiD-induced degron for targeted protein degradation in human and murine cells. 	iTAG an optimized IMiD-induced degron for targeted protein degradation in human and murine cells	PROTACs, iMiDs, targeted protein degradation	To address the limitation associated with degron based systems, we have developed iTAG, a synthetic tag based on IMiDs/CELMoDs mechanism of action that improves and addresses the limitations of both PROTAC and previous IMiDs/CeLMoDs based tags. Using structural and sequence analysis, we systematically explored native and chimeric degron containing domains (DCDs) and evaluated their ability to induce degradation. We identified the optimal chimeric iTAG(DCD23 60aa) that elicits robust degradation of targets across cell types and subcellular localizations without exhibiting the well documented "hook effect" of PROTAC-based systems. We showed that iTAG can also induce target degradation by murine CRBN and enabled the exploration of natural neo-substrates that can be degraded by murine CRBN. Hence, the iTAG system constitutes a versatile tool to degrade targets across the human and murine proteome.
PXD029388	37361203	Neuroprotective effect of Astragali Radix on cerebral infarction based on proteomics. 	Quantitative proteomics revealed the mechanism of Yiqi Huoxue recipe used to treat cerebral infarction with Qi deficiency and blood stasis	Huoxue Yiqi recipe, Qi deficiency and blood stasis syndrome, cerebral infarction	Objective: Astragali Radix (AR, Huangqi in Chinese) has a neuroprotective effect on cerebral infarction (CI). In order to explore the biological basis and therapeutic mechanism of AR in CI, a double-blind randomized controlled trial was established in this study, and proteomics analysis was carried out on serum samples of patients. Methods: The patients were divided into the AR group (n = 35) and the control group (n = 30). The curative effect was evaluated by the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) syndrome score and clinical indicators, and the serum of the two groups was analyzed by proteomics. Based on bioinformatics analysis methods, the changes in differential proteins between two groups of samples were explored, and the key proteins were validated through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results: The results of this study showed that the scores of deficiency of vital energy (DVE), blood stasis (BS), and NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) decreased significantly (p < 0.05), while the scores of the Barthel Index (BI) increased, indicating that AR could significantly improve the symptoms of CI patients. In addition, we found that compared with the control group, AR upregulated 43 proteins and downregulated 20 proteins, especially focusing on anti-atherosclerosis and neuroprotective effects. Moreover, ELISA indicated the levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha, VCAM-1, MCP-1, and ICAM-1 were significantly decreased in the serum of the AR group (p < 0.05, p < 0.01). Conclusion: This study found that AR can significantly recover the clinical symptoms of CI. Serum proteomics research results show that AR may act on IL-6, TNF-alpha, VCAM-1, MCP-1, and ICAM-1, and play anti-atherosclerosis and neuroprotective roles. Clinical Trial Registration: [clinicaltrials.gov], identifier [NCT02846207].
PXD039612	37363319	Detection of Arc/Arg3.1 oligomers in rat brain: constitutive and synaptic activity-evoked dimer expression in vivo. 	Detection of Arc/Arg3.1 oligomers in rat brain: constitutive and synaptic activity-evoked dimer expression in vivo	Arc oligomer, Rat brain, dimer	The immediate early gene product activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc or Arg3.1) is a major regulator of long-term synaptic plasticity with critical roles in postnatal cortical development and memory formation. However, the molecular basis of Arc function is undefined. Arc is a hub protein with interaction partners in the postsynaptic neuronal compartment and nucleus. Previous in vitro biochemical and biophysical analysis of purified recombinant Arc showed formation of low-order oligomers and larger particles including retrovirus-like capsids. Here, we provide evidence for naturally occurring Arc oligomers in the mammalian brain. Using in situ protein crosslinking to trap weak Arc-Arc interactions, we identified in various preparations a prominent Arc immunoreactive band on SDS-PAGE of molecular mass corresponding to a dimer. While putative trimers, tetramers and heavier Arc species were detected, they were of lower abundance. Stimulus-evoked induction of Arc expression and dimer formation was first demonstrated in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells treated with the muscarinic cholinergic agonist, carbachol, and in primary cortical neuronal cultures treated with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In the dentate gyrus (DG) of adult anesthetized rats, induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of medial perforant synapses or by brief intrahippocampal infusion of BDNF led to a massive increase in Arc dimer expression. Arc immunoprecipitation of crosslinked DG tissue showed enhanced dimer expression during 4 h of LTP maintenance. Mass spectrometric proteomic analysis of immunoprecipitated, gel-excised bands corroborated detection of Arc dimer. Furthermore, Arc dimer was constitutively expressed in naive cortical, hippocampal and DG tissue, with the lowest levels in the DG. Taken together the results implicate Arc dimer as the predominant low-oligomeric form in mammalian brain, exhibiting regional differences in its constitutive expression and enhanced synaptic activity-evoked expression in LTP.
PXD031333	37363916	Schistosoma mansoni egg-derived thioredoxin and Sm14 drive the development of IL-10 producing regulatory B cells. 	Schistosoma mansoni egg-derived thioredoxin and Sm14 drive the development of IL-10 producing regulatory B cells	schistosoma B cells	During chronic schistosome infections, a complex regulatory network is induced to regulate the host immune system, in which IL-10-producing regulatory B (Breg) cells play a significant role. Schistosoma mansoni soluble egg antigens (SEA) are bound and internalized by B cells and induce both human and mouse IL-10 producing Breg cells. To identify Breg-inducing proteins in SEA, we fractionated SEA by size exclusion chromatography and found 6 fractions able to induce IL-10 production by B cells (out of 18) in the high, medium and low molecular weight (MW) range. The high MW fractions were rich in heavily glycosylated molecules, including multi-fucosylated proteins. Using SEA glycoproteins purified by affinity chromatography and synthetic glycans coupled to gold nanoparticles, we investigated the role of these glycan structures in inducing IL-10 production by B cells. Then, we performed proteomics analysis on active low MW fractions and identified a number of proteins with putative immunomodulatory properties, notably thioredoxin (SmTrx1) and the fatty acid binding protein Sm14. Subsequent splenic murine B cell stimulations and hock immunizations with recombinant SmTrx1 and Sm14 showed their ability to dose-dependently induce IL-10 production by B cells both in vitro and in vivo. Identification of unique Breg cells-inducing molecules may pave the way to innovative therapeutic strategies for inflammatory and auto-immune diseases.
PXD024394	37364094	Molecular responses during bacterial filamentation reveal inhibition methods of drug-resistant bacteria. 	Online Microfluidics Mass Spectrometry Reveals Molecular Responses of Bacterial Filamentation and Inhibition Methods of Drug Resistant Bacteria	Bacterial filamentation, bacteria inhibition, multi-omics.	Bacterial antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is among the most significant challenges to current human society. Exposing bacteria to antibiotics can activate their self-saving responses, e.g., filamentation, leading to the development of bacterial AMR. Understanding the molecular changes during the self-saving responses can reveal new inhibition methods of drug-resistant bacteria. Herein, we used an online microfluidics mass spectrometry system for real-time characterization of metabolic changes of bacteria during filamentation under the stimulus of antibiotics. Significant pathways, e.g., nucleotide metabolism and coenzyme A biosynthesis, correlated to the filamentation of extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Escherichia coli (ESBL-E. coli) were identified. A cyclic dinucleotide, c-di-GMP, which is derived from nucleotide metabolism and reported closely related to bacterial resistance and tolerance, was observed significantly up-regulated during the bacterial filamentation. By using a chemical inhibitor, ebselen, to inhibit diguanylate cyclases which catalyzes the synthesis of c-di-GMP, the minimum inhibitory concentration of ceftriaxone against ESBL-E. coli was significantly decreased. This inhibitory effect was also verified with other ESBL-E. coli strains and other beta-lactam antibiotics, i.e., ampicillin. A mutant strain of ESBL-E. coli by knocking out the dgcM gene was used to demonstrate that the inhibition of the antibiotic resistance to beta-lactams by ebselen was mediated through the inhibition of the diguanylate cyclase DgcM and the modulation of c-di-GMP levels. Our study uncovers the molecular changes during bacterial filamentation and proposes a method to inhibit antibiotic-resistant bacteria by combining traditional antibiotics and chemical inhibitors against the enzymes involved in bacterial self-saving responses.
PXD036979	37365178	Single-cell transcriptomics and epigenomics unravel the role of monocytes in neuroblastoma bone marrow metastasis. 	Dissecting the cellular architecture of neuroblastoma bone marrow metastasis using single-cell transcriptomics and epigenomics	bone marrow, heterogeneity, metastasis, microenvironment, monocytes, neuroblastoma, scATAC-seq, scRNA-seq, single cell	Metastasis is the major cause of cancer-related deaths. Neuroblastoma (NB), a childhood tumor has been molecularly defined at the primary cancer site, however, the bone marrow (BM) as the metastatic niche of NB is poorly characterized. Here we perform single-cell transcriptomic and epigenomic profiling of BM aspirates from 11 subjects spanning three major NB subtypes and compare these to five age-matched and metastasis-free BM, followed by in-depth single cell analyses of tissue diversity and cell-cell interactions, as well as functional validation. We show that cellular plasticity of NB tumor cells is conserved upon metastasis and tumor cell type composition is NB subtype-dependent. NB cells signal to the BM microenvironment, rewiring via macrophage mgration inhibitory factor and midkine signaling specifically monocytes, which exhibit M1 and M2 features, are marked by activation of pro- and anti-inflammatory programs, and express tumor-promoting factors, reminiscent of tumor-associated macrophages. The interactions and pathways characterized in our study provide the basis for therapeutic approaches that target tumor-to-microenvironment interactions.
PXD023971	37366628	Biophysical and proteomic analyses of Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 extracellular vesicles suggest adaptive functions during plant infection. 	Biophysical and proteomic analyses suggest functions of Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 extracellular vesicles in bacterial growth during plant infection	EVs, Extracellular vesicles, NTA, PTI, Pto DC3000, nanoparticle tracking analysis, pattern-triggered immunity	Vesiculation is a process employed by Gram-negative bacteria to release extracellular vesicles (EVs) into the environment. EVs from pathogenic bacteria play functions in host immune modulation, elimination of host defenses, and acquisition of nutrients from the host. Here, we observed EV production of the bacterial speck disease causal agent, Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (Pto) DC3000, as outer membrane vesicle release. Mass spectrometry identified 369 proteins enriched in Pto DC3000 EVs. The EV samples contained known immunomodulatory proteins and could induce plant immune responses mediated by bacterial flagellin. Having identified two biomarkers for EV detection, we provide evidence for Pto DC3000 releasing EVs during plant infection. Bioinformatic analysis of the EV-enriched proteins suggests a role for EVs in antibiotic defense and iron acquisition. Thus, our data provide insights into the strategies this pathogen may use to develop in a plant environment. IMPORTANCE The release of extracellular vesicles (EVs) into the environment is ubiquitous among bacteria. Vesiculation has been recognized as an important mechanism of bacterial pathogenesis and human disease but is poorly understood in phytopathogenic bacteria. Our research addresses the role of bacterial EVs in plant infection. In this work, we show that the causal agent of bacterial speck disease, Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato, produces EVs during plant infection. Our data suggest that EVs may help the bacteria to adapt to environments, e.g., when iron could be limiting such as the plant apoplast, laying the foundation for studying the factors that phytopathogenic bacteria use to thrive in the plant environment.
PXD041291	37367992	Deep Bottom-up Proteomics Enabled by the Integration of Liquid-Phase Ion Trap. 	Deep Bottom-up Proteomics Enabled by the Integration of Liquid-Phase Ion Trap	bottom-up proteomics, liquid phase ion trap, peptide fractionation	In bottom-up proteomics, the complexity of the proteome requires advanced peptide separation and/or fractionation methods to acquire an in-depth understanding of protein profiles. Proposed earlier as a solution-phase ion manipulation device, liquid phase ion traps (LPITs) were used in front of mass spectrometers to accumulate target ions for improved detection sensitivity. In this work, an LPIT-reversed phase liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LPIT-RPLC-MS/MS) platform was established for deep bottom-up proteomics. LPIT was used here as a robust and effective method for peptide fractionation, which also shows good reproducibility and sensitivity on both qualitative and quantitative levels. LPIT separates peptides based on their effective charges and hydrodynamic radii, which is orthogonal to that of RPLC. With excellent orthogonality, the integration of LPIT with RPLC-MS/MS could effectively increase the number of peptides and proteins being detected. When HeLa cells were analyzed, peptide and protein coverages were increased by ~89.2% and 50.3%, respectively. With high efficiency and low cost, this LPIT-based peptide fraction method could potentially be used in routine deep bottom-up proteomics.
PXD035666	37368948	Dynamic Phosphoproteomics of BRS3 Activation Reveals the Hippo Signaling Pathway for Cell Migration. 	Dynamic phosphoproteomics of BRS3 activation reveals Hippo signaling pathway for cell migration	Cell migration, GPCR, Hippo signaling pathway, Phosphoproteomics, Signaling transductions	Bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3) is an orphan G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) that is involved in a variety of pathological and physiological processes, while its biological functions and underlying regulatory mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this study, a quantitative phosphoproteomics approach was employed to comprehensively decipher the signal transductions that occurred upon intracellular BRS3 activation. The lung cancer cell line H1299-BRS3 was treated with MK-5046, an agonist of BRS3, for different durations. Harvested cellular proteins were digested and phosphopeptides were enriched by immobilized titanium (IV) ion affinity chromatography (Ti(4+)-IMAC) for label-free quantification (LFQ) analysis. A total of 11,938 phosphopeptides were identified, corresponding to 3,430 phosphoproteins and 10,820 phosphosites. Data analysis revealed that 27 phosphopeptides corresponding to six proteins were involved in the Hippo signaling pathway, which was significantly regulated by BRS3 activation. Verification experiments demonstrated that downregulation of the Hippo signaling pathway caused by BRS3 activation could induce the dephosphorylation and nucleus localization of the Yes-associated protein (YAP), and its association with cell migration was further confirmed by kinase inhibition. Our data collectively demonstrate that BRS3 activation contributes to cell migration through downregulation of the Hippo signaling pathway.
PXD042563	37369199	A functional link between lariat debranching enzyme and the intron-binding complex is defective in non-photosensitive trichothiodystrophy. 	DBR1 Interactors Identification Analysis in TTDN1 KO background	HeLa-S	The pre-mRNA life cycle requires intron processing; yet, how intron-processing defects influence splicing and gene expression is unclear. Here, we find that TTDN1/MPLKIP, which is encoded by a gene implicated in non-photosensitive trichothiodystrophy (NP-TTD), functionally links intron lariat processing to spliceosomal function. The conserved TTDN1 C-terminal region directly binds lariat debranching enzyme DBR1, whereas its N-terminal intrinsically disordered region (IDR) binds the intron-binding complex (IBC). TTDN1 loss, or a mutated IDR, causes significant intron lariat accumulation, as well as splicing and gene expression defects, mirroring phenotypes observed in NP-TTD patient cells. A Ttdn1-deficient mouse model recapitulates intron-processing defects and certain neurodevelopmental phenotypes seen in NP-TTD. Fusing DBR1 to the TTDN1 IDR is sufficient to recruit DBR1 to the IBC and circumvents the functional requirement for TTDN1. Collectively, our findings link RNA lariat processing with splicing outcomes by revealing the molecular function of TTDN1.
PXD034179	37369204	Pathogen protein modularity enables elaborate mimicry of a host phosphatase. 	Pathogen protein modularity enables mimicry of a host phosphatase	Phosphatase, Phytophthora, effector	Pathogens produce diverse effector proteins to manipulate host cellular processes. However, how functional diversity is generated in an effector repertoire is poorly understood. Many effectors in the devastating plant pathogen Phytophthora contain tandem repeats of the "(L)WY" motif, which are structurally conserved but variable in sequences. Here, we discovered a functional module formed by a specific (L)WY-LWY combination in multiple Phytophthora effectors, which efficiently recruits the serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) core enzyme in plant hosts. Crystal structure of an effector-PP2A complex shows that the (L)WY-LWY module enables hijacking of the host PP2A core enzyme to form functional holoenzymes. While sharing the PP2A-interacting module at the amino terminus, these effectors possess divergent C-terminal LWY units and regulate distinct sets of phosphoproteins in the host. Our results highlight the appropriation of an essential host phosphatase through molecular mimicry by pathogens and diversification promoted by protein modularity in an effector repertoire.
PXD020070	37369679	K235 acetylation couples with PSPC1 to regulate the m(6)A demethylation activity of ALKBH5 and tumorigenesis. 	Identification of the acetylation sites in ALKBH5	ALKBH5 acetylation	N6-methyladenosine (m(6)A) modification plays important roles in bioprocesses and diseases. AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5) is one of two m(6)A demethylases. Here, we reveal that ALKBH5 is acetylated at lysine 235 (K235) by lysine acetyltransferase 8 and deacetylated by histone deacetylase 7. K235 acetylation strengthens the m(6)A demethylation activity of ALKBH5 by increasing its recognition of m(6)A on mRNA. RNA-binding protein paraspeckle component 1 (PSCP1) is a regulatory subunit of ALKBH5 and preferentially interacts with K235-acetylated ALKBH5 to recruit and facilitate the recognition of m(6)A mRNA by ALKBH5, thereby promoting m(6)A erasure. Mitogenic signals promote ALKBH5 K235 acetylation. K235 acetylation of ALKBH5 is upregulated in cancers and promotes tumorigenesis. Thus, our findings reveal that the m(6)A demethylation activity of ALKBH5 is orchestrated by its K235 acetylation and regulatory subunit PSPC1 and that K235 acetylation is necessary for the m(6)A demethylase activity and oncogenic roles of ALKBH5.
PXD041254	37370727	Alternative mRNA Splicing Controls the Functions of the Histone H3K27 Demethylase UTX/KDM6A. 	Alternative mRNA splicing controls functions of the human H3K27 demethylase UTX/KDM6A	Bladder cancer, Isoforms, KDM6A	The UTX/KDM6A histone H3K27 demethylase plays an important role in development and is frequently mutated in cancers such as urothelial cancer. Despite many studies on UTX proteins, variations in mRNA splicing have been overlooked. Using Nanopore sequencing, we present a comprehensive analysis of UTX/KDM6A splicing events in human cell lines and in tissue samples from bladder cancer cases and normal epithelia. We found that the central region of UTX mRNAs encoded by exons 12 to 17 undergoes extensive alternative splicing. Up to half of all stable mRNAs (8-48% in bladder tissues and 18-58% in cell lines) are represented by the UTX canonical isoform lacking exon 14 encoding a nuclear localization sequence, and hence exon 14-containing UTX isoforms exclusively localize to the nucleus, unlike the cytonuclear localization of the canonical isoform. Chromatin association was also higher for exon-14-containing isoforms compared to the canonical UTX. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we found that all UTX isoforms integrated into the MLL3 and MLL4, PR-DUB and MiDAC complexes. Interestingly, one of the novel UTX isoforms, which lacks exons 14 and 16, fails to interact with PR-DUB and MiDAC complex members. In conclusion, UTX mRNAs undergo extensive alternative splicing, which controls the subcellular localization of UTX and its interactions with other chromatin regulatory complexes.
PXD038681	37371559	Real-Time Search-Assisted Multiplexed Quantitative Proteomics Reveals System-Wide Translational Regulation of Non-Canonical Short Open Reading Frames. 	TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis of SAHA-treated human HeLa cells	TMT	Abnormal expression of histone deacetylases (HDACs) is reported to be associated with angiogenesis, metastasis and chemotherapy resistance regarding cancer in a wide range of previous studies. Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) is well known to function as a pan-inhibitor for HDACs and recognized as one of the therapeutic drug candidates to epigenetically coordinate cancer cell fate regulation on a genomic scale. Here, we established a Real-Time Search (RTS)-assisted mass spectrometric platform for system-wide quantification of translated products encoded by non-canonical short open reading frames (ORFs) as well as already annotated protein coding sequences (CDSs) on the human transciptome and applied this methodology to quantitative proteomic analyses of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA)-treated human HeLa cells to evaluate proteome-wide regulation in response to drug perturbation. Very intriguingly, our RTS-based in-depth proteomic analysis enabled us to identify approximately 5000 novel peptides from the ribosome profiling-based short ORFs encoded in the diversified regions on presumed 'non-coding' nucleotide sequences of mRNAs as well as lncRNAs and nonsense mediated decay (NMD) transcripts. Furthermore, TMT-based multiplex large-scale quantification of the whole proteome changes upon differential SAHA treatment unveiled dose-dependent selective translational regulation of a limited fraction of the non-canonical short ORFs in addition to key cell cycle/proliferation-related molecules such as UBE2C, CENPF and PRC1. Our study provided the first system-wide landscape of drug-perturbed translational modulation on both canonical and non-canonical proteome dynamics in human cancer cells.
PXD039491	37371884	Loss of PRDX6 Aborts Proliferative and Migratory Signaling in Hepatocarcinoma Cell Lines. 	PRDX6 as a promoter of cancer malignancy in hepatocarcinoma cell lines targeting GSK3B	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cancer (B/D-HPP), Cell cycle, GSK3B, Hepa, Human Proteome Project, Mitochondrial dysfunction, Peroxiredoxin 6, ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP), ROS, lipid peroxidation	Peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6), the only mammalian 1-Cys member of the peroxiredoxin family, has peroxidase, phospholipase A2 (PLA2), and lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) acyltransferase (LPCAT) activities. It has been associated with tumor progression and cancer metastasis, but the mechanisms involved are not clear. We constructed an SNU475 hepatocarcinoma cell line knockout for PRDX6 to study the processes of migration and invasiveness in these mesenchymal cells. They showed lipid peroxidation but inhibition of the NRF2 transcriptional regulator, mitochondrial dysfunction, metabolic reprogramming, an altered cytoskeleton, down-regulation of PCNA, and a diminished growth rate. LPC regulatory action was inhibited, indicating that loss of both the peroxidase and PLA2 activities of PRDX6 are involved. Upstream regulators MYC, ATF4, HNF4A, and HNF4G were activated. Despite AKT activation and GSK3beta inhibition, the prosurvival pathway and the SNAI1-induced EMT program were aborted in the absence of PRDX6, as indicated by diminished migration and invasiveness, down-regulation of bottom-line markers of the EMT program, MMP2, cytoskeletal proteins, and triggering of the "cadherin switch". These changes point to a role for PRDX6 in tumor development and metastasis, so it can be considered a candidate for antitumoral therapies.
PXD041799	37371933	Insights into the Lysine Acetylome of the Haloarchaeon Haloferax volcanii during Oxidative Stress by Quantitative SILAC-Based Proteomics. 	Haloferax volcanii lysine acetylation	Haloferax volcanii, PTMs, acetylation, halophiles, oxidative stress	Oxidative stress adaptation strategies are important to cell function and are linked to cardiac, neurodegenerative disease, and cancer. Representatives of the Archaea domain are used as model organisms based on their extreme tolerance to oxidants and close evolutionary relationship with eukaryotes. A study of the halophilic archaeon Haloferax volcanii reveals lysine acetylation to be associated with oxidative stress responses. The strong oxidant hypochlorite: (i) stimulates an increase in lysine acetyltransferase HvPat2 to HvPat1 abundance ratios and (ii) selects for lysine deacetylase sir2 mutants. Here we report the dynamic occupancy of the lysine acetylome of glycerol-grown H. volcanii as it shifts in profile in response to hypochlorite. These findings are revealed by the: (1) quantitative multiplex proteomics of the SILAC-compatible parent and Deltasir2 mutant strains and (2) label-free proteomics of H26 'wild type' cells. The results show that lysine acetylation is associated with key biological processes including DNA topology, central metabolism, cobalamin biosynthesis, and translation. Lysine acetylation targets are found conserved across species. Moreover, lysine residues modified by acetylation and ubiquitin-like sampylation are identified suggesting post-translational modification (PTM) crosstalk. Overall, the results of this study expand the current knowledge of lysine acetylation in Archaea, with the long-term goal to provide a balanced evolutionary perspective of PTM systems in living organisms.
PXD042136	37373047	Proteomic Profiling of Chemotherapy Responses in FOLFOX-Resistant Colorectal Cancer Cells. 	Proteomic profiling of chemotherapy responses in FOLFOX-resistant colorectal cancer cells	FOLFOX, chemoresistance, colorectal cancer	Chemoresistance mechanisms of colorectal cancer remain largely elusive. We aim to compare the difference of chemotherapy responses between FOLFOX-resistant and wild-type colorectal cancer cells by proteomic profiling to suggest novel treatment targets. FOLFOX-resistant colorectal cancer cells DLD1-R and HCT116-R were developed by chronic exposure to progressive FOLFOX doses. Proteomic profiling of FOLFOX-resistant and wild-type cells under FOLFOX exposure were conducted by mass-spectrometry-based protein-analysis technology. Verification of selected KEGG pathways was conducted by Western blot. DLD1-R had significantly higher FOLFOX-chemoresistance (10.81 times) than its wild-type counterpart. A total of 309 and 90 differentially expressed proteins were identified in DLD1-R and HCT116-R, respectively. In terms of gene ontology molecular function, RNA binding and cadherin binding ranked first for DLD1 and HCT116 groups, respectively. For gene set enrichment analysis, ribosome pathway and DNA replication were significantly up-regulated and down-regulated in DLD1-R, respectively. The most significantly up-regulated pathway in HCT116-R was regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. Up-regulations in the ribosome pathway (DLD1-R) and actin cytoskeleton (HCT116-R) were verified by Western blot. There were several significantly altered signaling pathways in FOLFOX-resistant colorectal cancer cells under FOLFOX with notable up-regulations in the ribosomal process and actin cytoskeleton.
PXD033950	37373165	A Comparative Proteomic Analysis to Explore the Influencing Factors on Endometritis Using LC-MS/MS. 	Label-free proteomics of endometrial epithelial cell for identification of presumptive biomarkers of endometritis	LPS, endometritis, expression profile, goat endometrial epithelial cells	The inflammatory system activated by uterine infection is associated with decreased fertility. Diseases can be detected in advance by identifying biomarkers of several uterine diseases. Escherichia coli is one of the most frequent bacteria that is involved in pathogenic processes in dairy goats. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of endotoxin on protein expression in goat endometrial epithelial cells. In this study, the LC-MS/MS approach was employed to investigate the proteome profile of goat endometrial epithelial cells. A total of 1180 proteins were identified in the goat Endometrial Epithelial Cells and LPS-treated goat Endometrial Epithelial Cell groups, of which, 313 differentially expressed proteins were accurately screened. The proteomic results were independently verified by WB, TEM and IF techniques, and the same conclusion was obtained. To conclude, this model is suitable for the further study of infertility caused by endometrial damage caused by endotoxin. These findings may provide useful information for the prevention and treatment of endometritis.
PXD041265	37373325	Less Severe Polymicrobial Sepsis in Conditional mgmt-Deleted Mice Using LysM-Cre System, Impacts of DNA Methylation and MGMT Inhibitor in Sepsis. 	The regulatory roles of Ezh2 in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in macrophages and mice with conditional Ezh2 deletion with LysM-Cre system	Ezh2, epigenetics, lipopolysaccharide, macrophage, sepsis	The O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is a DNA suicide repair enzyme that might be important during sepsis but has never been explored. Then, the proteomic analysis of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated wild-type (WT) macrophages increased proteasome proteins and reduced oxidative phosphorylation proteins compared with control, possibly related to cell injury. With LPS stimulation, mgmt null (mgmt(flox/flox); LysM-Cre(cre/-)) macrophages demonstrated less profound inflammation; supernatant cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-10) and pro-inflammatory genes (iNOS and IL-1beta), with higher DNA break (phosphohistone H2AX) and cell-free DNA, but not malondialdehyde (the oxidative stress), compared with the littermate control (mgmt(flox/flox); LysM-Cre(-/-)). In parallel, mgmt null mice (MGMT loss only in the myeloid cells) demonstrated less severe sepsis in the cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model (with antibiotics), as indicated by survival and other parameters compared with sepsis in the littermate control. The mgmt null protective effect was lost in CLP mice without antibiotics, highlighting the importance of microbial control during sepsis immune modulation. However, an MGMT inhibitor in CLP with antibiotics in WT mice attenuated serum cytokines but not mortality, requiring further studies. In conclusion, an absence of mgmt in macrophages resulted in less severe CLP sepsis, implying a possible influence of guanine DNA methylation and repair in macrophages during sepsis.
PXD042332	37375414	The Introduction of Detergents in Thermal Proteome Profiling Requires Lowering the Applied Temperatures for Efficient Target Protein Identification. 	Evaluation of the impacts of detergent introduction on the target identification performance of TPP	mild detergents, target protein identification, thermal proteome profiling	Although the use of detergents in thermal proteome profiling (TPP) has become a common practice to identify membrane protein targets in complex biological samples, surprisingly, there is no proteome-wide investigation into the impacts of detergent introduction on the target identification performance of TPP. In this study, we assessed the target identification performance of TPP in the presence of a commonly used non-ionic detergent or a zwitterionic detergent using a pan-kinase inhibitor staurosporine, our results showed that the addition of either of these detergents significantly impaired the identification performance of TPP at the optimal temperature for soluble target protein identification. Further investigation showed that detergents destabilized the proteome and increased protein precipitation. By lowering the applied temperature point, the target identification performance of TPP with detergents is significantly improved and is comparable to that in the absence of detergents. Our findings provide valuable insight into how to select the appropriate temperature range when detergents are used in TPP. In addition, our results also suggest that the combination of detergent and heat may serve as a novel precipitation-inducing force that can be applied for target protein identification.
PXD041324	37376178	New Ruthenium-Cyclopentadienyl Complexes Affect Colorectal Cancer Hallmarks Showing High Therapeutic Potential. 	New ruthenium-cyclopentadienyl complexes affect colorectal cancer hallmarks showing high therapeutic potential	active targeting, colorectal cancer, passive targeting, ruthenium-cyclopentadienyl compounds	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is among the most deadly cancers worldwide. Current therapeutic strategies have low success rates and several side effects. This relevant clinical problem requires the discovery of new and more effective therapeutic alternatives. Ruthenium drugs have arisen as one of the most promising metallodrugs, due to their high selectivity to cancer cells. In this work we studied, for the first time, the anticancer properties and mechanisms of action of four lead Ru-cyclopentadienyl compounds, namely PMC79, PMC78, LCR134 and LCR220, in two CRC-derived cell lines (SW480 and RKO). Biological assays were performed on these CRC cell lines to evaluate cellular distribution, colony formation, cell cycle, proliferation, apoptosis, and motility, as well as cytoskeleton and mitochondrial alterations. Our results show that all the compounds displayed high bioactivity and selectivity, as shown by low half-maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC50) against CRC cells. We observed that all the Ru compounds have different intracellular distributions. In addition, they inhibit to a high extent the proliferation of CRC cells by decreasing clonogenic ability and inducing cell cycle arrest. PMC79, LCR134, and LCR220 also induce apoptosis, increase the levels of reactive oxygen species, lead to mitochondrial dysfunction, induce actin cytoskeleton alterations, and inhibit cellular motility. A proteomic study revealed that these compounds cause modifications in several cellular proteins associated with the phenotypic alterations observed. Overall, we demonstrate that Ru compounds, especially PMC79 and LCR220, display promising anticancer activity in CRC cells with a high potential to be used as new metallodrugs for CRC therapy.
PXD039669	37376680	m(6)A Regulates the Stability of Cellular Transcripts Required for Efficient KSHV Lytic Replication. 	TREx-BCBL1-RTA GPRC5A-FLAG Immunoprecipitation LC-MS	human KSHV GPRC5A	The epitranscriptomic modification N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is a ubiquitous feature of the mammalian transcriptome. It modulates mRNA fate and dynamics to exert regulatory control over numerous cellular processes and disease pathways, including viral infection. Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) reactivation from the latent phase leads to the redistribution of m(6)A topology upon both viral and cellular mRNAs within infected cells. Here we investigate the role of m(6)A in cellular transcripts upregulated during KSHV lytic replication. Our results show that m(6)A is crucial for the stability of the GPRC5A mRNA, whose expression is induced by the KSHV latent-lytic switch master regulator, the replication and transcription activator (RTA) protein. Moreover, we demonstrate that GPRC5A is essential for efficient KSHV lytic replication by directly regulating NFkappaB signalling. Overall, this work highlights the central importance of m(6)A in modulating cellular gene expression to influence viral infection.
PXD038056	37376803	Editing of rice (Oryza sativa L.) OsMKK3 gene using CRISPR/Cas9 decreases grain length by modulating the expression of photosystem components. 	Proteomic analysis of YexiangB and the OsMKK3 mutant line	OsMKK3, mutant, regulated protein	Grain size is one of the most important agronomic traits for grain yield determination in rice. To better understand the proteins that are regulated by the grain size regulatory gene OsMKK3, this gene was knocked out using the CRISPR/Cas9 system, and tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling combined with liquid chromatograph-tandem mass spectrometry analysis was performed to study the regulation of proteins in the panicle. Quantitative proteomic screening revealed a total of 106 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) via comparison of the OsMKK3 mutant line to the wild-type YexiangB, including 15 and 91 up-regulated and down-regulated DEPs, respectively. Pathway analysis revealed that DEPs were enriched in metabolic pathways, biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, and photosynthesis. Strong interactions were detected among seven down-regulated proteins related to photosystem components in the protein-protein interaction network, and photosynthetic rate was decreased in mutant plants. The results of the liquid chromatography-parallel reaction monitoring/mass spectromery analysis and western blot analysis were consistent with the results of the proteomic analysis, and the results of the quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that the expression levels of most candidate genes were consistent with protein levels. Overall, OsMKK3 controls grain size by regulating the protein content in cells. Our findings provide new candidate genes that will aid the study of grain size regulatory mechanisms associated with the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway.
PXD039072	37377435	ATM-ESCO2-SMC3 axis promotes 53BP1 recruitment in response to DNA damage and safeguards genome integrity by stabilizing cohesin complex. 	human ESCO2-interacting proteins in response to DNA damage	DNA damage, ESCO2, huamn	53BP1 is primarily known as a key regulator in DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair. However, the mechanism of DSB-triggered cohesin modification-modulated chromatin structure on the recruitment of 53BP1 remains largely elusive. Here, we identified acetyltransferase ESCO2 as a regulator for DSB-induced cohesin-dependent chromatin structure dynamics, which promotes 53BP1 recruitment. Mechanistically, in response to DNA damage, ATM phosphorylates ESCO2 S196 and T233. MDC1 recognizes phosphorylated ESCO2 and recruits ESCO2 to DSB sites. ESCO2-mediated acetylation of SMC3 stabilizes cohesin complex conformation and regulates the chromatin structure at DSB breaks, which is essential for the recruitment of 53BP1 and the formation of 53BP1 microdomains. Furthermore, depletion of ESCO2 in both colorectal cancer cells and xenografted nude mice sensitizes cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs. Collectively, our results reveal a molecular mechanism for the ATM-ESCO2-SMC3 axis in DSB repair and genome integrity maintenance with a vital role in chemotherapy response in colorectal cancer.
PXD041808	37378075	Proteomics analyses of acute kidney injury biomarkers in a rat exertional heat stroke model. 	Proteomics analyses of acute kidney injury in a rat exertional heat stroke model	acute kidney injury, exertional heatstroke, nano-LC-MS/MS analysis	The frequency of exertional heat stroke (EHS) increases with the gradual elevation of global temperatures during summer. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common complication of EHS, and its occurrence often indicates the worsening of a patient's condition or a poor prognosis. In this study, a rat model of AKI caused by EHS was established, and the reliability of the model was evaluated by HE staining and biochemical assays. The expression of kidney tissue proteins in the EHS rats was analyzed using label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 3,129 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were obtained, and 10 key proteins were finally identified, which included three upregulated proteins (Ahsg, Bpgm, and Litaf) and seven downregulated proteins (medium-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 2 (Acsm2), Hadha, Keg1, Sh3glb1, Eif3d, Ambp, and Ddah2). The qPCR technique was used to validate these 10 potential biomarkers in rat kidney and urine. In addition, Acsm2 and Ahsg were double-validated by Western blotting. Overall, this study identified 10 reliable biomarkers that may provide potential targets for the treatment of AKI caused by EHS.
PXD042455	37378314	A novel co-target of ACY1 governing plasma membrane translocation of SphK1 contributes to inflammatory and neuropathic pain. 	Proteomics comparison of protein changes  in two well-established animal pain models of chronic pain using wild-type and Nav1.8 knockout mice	Nav1.8 knockout, chronicpain	Previous studies validate that inhibiting sodium channel 1.8 (Nav1.8) effectively relieves inflammatory and neuropathic pain. However, Nav1.8 blockers have cardiac side effects in addition to analgesic effects. Here, we constructed a spinal differential protein expression profile using Nav1.8 knockout mice to screen common downstream proteins of Nav1.8 in inflammatory and neuropathic pain. We found that aminoacylase 1 (ACY1) expression was increased in wild-type mice compared to Nav1.8 knockout mice in both pain models. Moreover, spinal ACY1 overexpression induced mechanical allodynia in naive mice, while ACY1 suppression alleviated inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Further, ACY1 could interact with sphingosine kinase 1 and promote its membrane translocation, resulting in sphingosine-1-phosphate upregulation and the activation of glutamatergic neurons and astrocytes. In conclusion, ACY1 acts as a common downstream effector protein of Nav1.8 in inflammatory and neuropathic pain and could be a new and precise therapeutic target for chronic pain.
PXD033099	37378422	MFN2 suppresses clear cell renal cell carcinoma progression by modulating mitochondria-dependent dephosphorylation of EGFR. 	LC-MSMS of mitochondria of human 786-O cells	786-O, humna, mitochondria	BACKGROUND: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most lethal renal cancer. An overwhelming increase of patients experience tumor progression and unfavorable prognosis. However, the molecular events underlying ccRCC tumorigenesis and metastasis remain unclear. Therefore, uncovering the underlying mechanisms will pave the way for developing novel therapeutic targets for ccRCC. In this study, we sought to investigate the role of mitofusin-2 (MFN2) in supressing ccRCC tumorigenesis and metastasis. METHODS: The expression pattern and clinical significance of MFN2 in ccRCC were analyzed by using the Cancer Genome Atlas datasets and samples from our independent ccRCC cohort. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments, including cell proliferation, xenograft mouse models and transgenic mouse model, were used to determine the role of MFN2 in regulating the malignant behaviors of ccRCC. RNA-sequencing, mass spectrum analysis, co-immunoprecipitation, bio-layer interferometry and immunofluorescence were employed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms for the tumor-supressing role of MFN2. RESULTS: we reported a tumor-suppressing pathway in ccRCC, characterized by mitochondria-dependent inactivation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling. This process was mediated by the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) protein MFN2. MFN2 was down-regulated in ccRCC and associated with favorable prognosis of ccRCC patients. in vivo and in vitro assays demonstrated that MFN2 inhibited ccRCC tumor growth and metastasis by suppressing the EGFR signaling pathway. In a kidney-specific knockout mouse model, loss of MFN2 led to EGFR pathway activation and malignant lesions in kidney. Mechanistically, MFN2 preferably binded small GTPase Rab21 in its GTP-loading form, which was colocalized with endocytosed EGFR in ccRCC cells. Through this EGFR-Rab21-MFN2 interaction, endocytosed EGFR was docked to mitochondria and subsequently dephosphorylated by the OMM-residing tyrosine-protein phosphatase receptor type J (PTPRJ). CONCLUSIONS: Our findings uncover an important non-canonical mitochondria-dependent pathway regulating EGFR signaling by the Rab21-MFN2-PTPRJ axis, which contributes to the development of novel therapeutic strategies for ccRCC.
PXD041114	37378520	Proteomic and Phenotypic Studies of Mycoplasma pneumoniae Revealed Macrolide-Resistant Mutation (A2063G) Associated Changes in Protein Composition and Pathogenicity of Type I Strains. 	Proteomic and phenotypic studies of Mycoplasma pneumoniae revealed macrolide resistant mutation (A2063G) associated changes in protein composition and pathogenicity of type I strains	Mycoplasma pneumoniae	Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP) is an important respiratory pathogen, the prevalence of macrolide-resistant MP (mainly containing A2063G mutation in 23S rRNA) increased in recent years. Epidemiological studies suggest a higher prevalence of type I resistant (IR) strains than corresponding sensitive (IS/IIS) strains, but not type II resistant (IIR) strains. Here, we aimed to analyze the factors underlying the altered prevalence of IR strains. First, proteomic analyses exhibit the protein compositions were type specific, while more differential proteins were detected between IS and IR (227) than IIS and IIR strains (81). mRNA level detection suggested posttranscriptional regulation of these differential proteins. Differential protein-related phenotypic changes were also detected: (i) P1 abundance was different between genotypes (I < II, IR < IS), the adhesion of MPs showed accordance to P1 abundance within IS and IIS strains; (ii) type I, especially IR, strains had a higher proliferation rate, which is potentially associated with differential proteins participating in glycolysis and one carbon pool metabolisms; (iii) A549 cells infected with IR strains had lower activity of caspase-3 and higher levels IL-8, but the differences were not significant between groups (P > 0.05). Correlations of P1 abundance to caspase-3 activity and proliferation rate to the level of IL-8 were obtained. These results suggest changes in protein composition influenced the pathogenicity of MP, especially in IR strains, which may impact the prevalence of MP strains of different genotypes. IMPORTANCE The prevalence of macrolide-resistant MPs increased the difficulty in treatment of MP infections and posed potential threats to children's health. Epidemiological studies showed a high prevalence of IR-resistant strains (mainly A2063G in 23S rRNA) in these years. However, the trigger mechanisms for this phenomenon are not clear. In this paper, proteomic and phenotypic studies suggest that IR strains have reduced levels of multiple adhesion proteins and increased proliferation rate, which may lead to higher transmission rate of IR strains in the population. This suggests that we should pay attention to the prevalence of IR strains.
PXD041204	37379434	Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Epitope Mapping of Glycosylated Epitopes Enabled by Online Immobilized Glycosidase. 	Hydrogen deuterium exchange epitope mapping of glycosylated epitopes enabled by online immobilized glycosidase	HDX, LC/MS-MS	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange coupled with mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) is widely used for monoclonal antibody (mAb) epitope mapping, which aids in the development of therapeutic mAbs and vaccines, as well as enables the understanding of viral immune evasion. Numerous mAbs are known to recognize N-glycosylated epitopes and to bind in close proximity to an N-glycan site; however, glycosylated protein sites are typically obscured from HDX detection as a result of the inherent heterogeneity of glycans. To overcome this limitation, we covalently immobilized the glycosidase PNGase Dj on a solid resin and incorporated it into an online HDX-MS workflow for post-HDX deglycosylation. The resin-immobilized PNGase Dj exhibited robust tolerance to various buffer conditions and was employed in a column format that can be readily adapted into a typical HDX-MS platform. Using this system, we were able to obtain full sequence coverage of the SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) and map the glycosylated epitope of the glycan-binding mAb S309 to the RBD.
PXD037527	37380610	Data-Dependent Acquisition with Precursor Coisolation Improves Proteome Coverage and Measurement Throughput for Label-Free Single-Cell Proteomics. 	Wide-Window Acquisition Improves Proteome Coverage and Measurement  Throughput for Label-Free Single-Cell Proteomics	Label-Free, Single-Cell Proteomics, Wide-Window Acquisition	We combined efficient sample preparation and ultra-low-flow liquid chromatography with a newly developed data acquisition and analysis scheme termed wide window acquisition (WWA) to quantify >3,000 proteins from single cells in rapid label-free analyses. WWA employs large isolation windows to intentionally co-isolate and co-fragment adjacent precursors along with the selected precursor. Optimized WWA increased the number of MS2-identified proteins by =~40 % relative to standard data-dependent acquisition. For a 40-min LC gradient operated at =~15 nL/min, we identified an average of 3,524 proteins per single-cell-sized aliquot of protein digest. Reducing the active gradient to 20 min resulted in a modest 10 % decrease in proteome coverage. Using this platform, we compared protein expression between single HeLa cells having an essential autophagy gene, atg9a, knocked out, with their isogenic WT parental line. Similar proteome coverage was observed, and 268 proteins were significantly up- or downregulated. Protein upregulation primarily related to innate immunity, vesicle trafficking and protein degradation.
PXD041472	37380890	Ribosome biosynthesis and Hedgehog activity are cooperative actionable signaling mechanisms in breast cancer following radiotherapy. 	Identification of proteins bound with RPA194 at rDNA loci post radiation in breast cancer cells	Breast cancer, ChIP-MS, IR, RPA194, rDNA, radiation	Hyperactivated ribosome biosynthesis is attributed to a need for elevated protein synthesis that accommodates cell growth and division, and is characterized by nucleomorphometric alterations and increased nucleolar counts. Ribosome biogenesis is challenged when DNA-damaging treatments such as radiotherapy are utilized. Tumor cells that survive radiotherapy form the basis of recurrence, tumor progression, and metastasis. In order to survive and become metabolically revitalized, tumor cells need to reactivate RNA Polymerase I (RNA Pol I) to synthesize ribosomal RNA, an integral component of ribosomes. In this study, we showed that following radiation therapy, tumor cells from breast cancer patients demonstrate activation of a ribosome biosynthesis signature concurrent with enrichment of a signature of Hedgehog (Hh) activity. We hypothesized that GLI1 activates RNA Pol I in response to irradiation and licenses the emergence of a radioresistant tumor population. Our work establishes a novel role for GLI1 in orchestrating RNA Pol I activity in irradiated breast cancer cells. Furthermore, we present evidence that in these irradiated tumor cells, Treacle ribosome biogenesis factor 1 (TCOF1), a nucleolar protein that is important in ribosome biogenesis, facilitates nucleolar translocation of GLI1. Inhibiting Hh activity and RNA Pol I activity disabled the outgrowth of breast cancer cells in the lungs. As such, ribosome biosynthesis and Hh activity present as actionable signaling mechanisms to enhance the effectiveness of radiotherapy.
PXD039222	37381005	alpha-catenin interaction with YAP/FoxM1/TEAD-induced CEP55 supports liver cancer cell migration. 	alpha-catenin interacts with YAP/FoxM1/TEAD-induced CEP55 and fosters liver cancer cell migration	Hippo pathway, adherens junctions, forkhead box M1, hepatocellular carcinoma, yes-associated protein	BACKGROUND: Adherens junctions (AJs) facilitate cell-cell contact and contribute to cellular communication as well as signaling under physiological and pathological conditions. Aberrant expression of AJ proteins is frequently observed in human cancers; however, how these factors contribute to tumorigenesis is poorly understood. In addition, for some factors such as alpha-catenin contradicting data has been described. In this study we aim to decipher how the AJ constituent alpha-catenin contributes to liver cancer formation. METHODS: TCGA data was used to detect transcript changes in 23 human tumor types. For the detection of proteins, liver cancer tissue microarrays were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Liver cancer cell lines (HLF, Hep3B, HepG2) were used for viability, proliferation, and migration analyses after RNAinterference-mediated gene silencing. To investigate the tumor initiating potential, vectors coding for alpha-catenin and myristoylated AKT were injected in mice by hydrodynamic gene delivery. A BioID assay combined with mass spectrometry was performed to identify alpha-catenin binding partners. Results were confirmed by proximity ligation and co-immunoprecipitation assays. Binding of transcriptional regulators at gene promoters was investigated using chromatin-immunoprecipitation. RESULTS: alpha-catenin mRNA was significantly reduced in many human malignancies (e.g., colon adenocarcinoma). In contrast, elevated alpha-catenin expression in other cancer entities was associated with poor clinical outcome (e.g., for hepatocellular carcinoma; HCC). In HCC cells, alpha-catenin was detectable at the membrane as well as cytoplasm where it supported tumor cell proliferation and migration. In vivo, alpha-catenin facilitated moderate oncogenic properties in conjunction with AKT overexpression. Cytokinesis regulator centrosomal protein 55 (CEP55) was identified as a novel alpha-catenin-binding protein in the cytoplasm of HCC cells. The physical interaction between alpha-catenin and CEP55 was associated with CEP55 stabilization. CEP55 was highly expressed in human HCC tissues and its overexpression correlated with poor overall survival and cancer recurrence. Next to the alpha-catenin-dependent protein stabilization, CEP55 was transcriptionally induced by a complex consisting of TEA domain transcription factors (TEADs), forkhead box M1 (FoxM1), and yes-associated protein (YAP). Surprisingly, CEP55 did not affect HCC cell proliferation but significantly supported migration in conjunction with alpha-catenin. CONCLUSION: Migration-supporting CEP55 is induced by two independent mechanisms in HCC cells: stabilization through interaction with the AJ protein alpha-catenin and transcriptional activation via the FoxM1/TEAD/YAP complex.
PXD041582	37385347	Structural Premise of Selective Deubiquitinase USP30 Inhibition by Small-Molecule Benzosulfonamides. 	Structural Premise of Selective Deubiquitinase USP30 Inhibition by Small-Molecule Benzosulfonamides	ABPP-MS, HDX-MS, USP30	Dampening functional levels of the mitochondrial deubiquitylating enzyme Ubiquitin-specific protease 30 (USP30) has been suggested as an effective therapeutic strategy against neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's Disease. USP30 inhibition may counteract the deleterious effects of impaired turnover of damaged mitochondria, which is inherent to both familial and sporadic forms of the disease. Small-molecule inhibitors targeting USP30 are currently in development, but little is known about their precise nature of binding to the protein. We have integrated biochemical and structural approaches to gain novel mechanistic insights into USP30 inhibition by a small-molecule benzosulfonamide-containing compound, USP30inh. Activity-based protein profiling mass spectrometry confirmed target engagement, high selectivity, and potency of USP30inh for USP30 against 49 other deubiquitylating enzymes in a neuroblastoma cell line. In vitro characterization of USP30inh enzyme kinetics inferred slow and tight binding behavior, which is comparable with features of covalent modification of USP30. Finally, we blended hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry and computational docking to elucidate the molecular architecture and geometry of USP30 complex formation with USP30inh, identifying structural rearrangements at the cleft of the USP30 thumb and palm subdomains. These studies suggest that USP30inh binds to this thumb-palm cleft, which guides the ubiquitin C terminus into the active site, thereby preventing ubiquitin binding and isopeptide bond cleavage, and confirming its importance in the inhibitory process. Our data will pave the way for the design and development of next-generation inhibitors targeting USP30 and associated deubiquitinylases.
PXD037259	37385999	Targeting lysine-specific demethylase 1 (KDM1A/LSD1) impairs colorectal cancer tumorigenesis by affecting cancer cells stemness, motility, and differentiation. 	Targeting Lysine-Specific Demethylase 1 (KDM1A/LSD1) Impairs Colorectal Cancer Tumorigenesis by Affecting Cancer Cells Stemness, Motility and Differentiation	CRC-SCs, KDM1A, epigenome, tumor	Among all cancers, colorectal cancer (CRC) is the 3rd most common and the 2nd leading cause of death worldwide. New therapeutic strategies are required to target cancer stem cells (CSCs), a subset of tumor cells highly resistant to present-day therapy and responsible for tumor relapse. CSCs display dynamic genetic and epigenetic alterations that allow quick adaptations to perturbations. Lysine-specific histone demethylase 1A (KDM1A also known as LSD1), a FAD-dependent H3K4me1/2 and H3K9me1/2 demethylase, was found to be upregulated in several tumors and associated with a poor prognosis due to its ability to maintain CSCs staminal features. Here, we explored the potential role of KDM1A targeting in CRC by characterizing the effect of KDM1A silencing in differentiated and CRC stem cells (CRC-SCs). In CRC samples, KDM1A overexpression was associated with a worse prognosis, confirming its role as an independent negative prognostic factor of CRC. Consistently, biological assays such as methylcellulose colony formation, invasion, and migration assays demonstrated a significantly decreased self-renewal potential, as well as migration and invasion potential upon KDM1A silencing. Our untargeted multi-omics approach (transcriptomic and proteomic) revealed the association of KDM1A silencing with CRC-SCs cytoskeletal and metabolism remodeling towards a differentiated phenotype, supporting the role of KDM1A in CRC cells stemness maintenance. Also, KDM1A silencing resulted in up-regulation of miR-506-3p, previously reported to play a tumor-suppressive role in CRC. Lastly, loss of KDM1A markedly reduced 53BP1 DNA repair foci, implying the involvement of KDM1A in the DNA damage response. Overall, our results indicate that KDM1A impacts CRC progression in several non-overlapping ways, and therefore it represents a promising epigenetic target to prevent tumor relapse.
PXD036226	37386008	The proteomic landscape of soft tissue sarcomas. 	The Proteomic Landscape of Soft Tissue Sarcomas	MS, Sarcoma, TMT	Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) are rare and diverse mesenchymal cancers with limited treatment options. Here we undertake comprehensive proteomic profiling of tumour specimens from 321 STS patients representing 11 histological subtypes. Within leiomyosarcomas, we identify three proteomic subtypes with distinct myogenesis and immune features, anatomical site distribution and survival outcomes. Characterisation of undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcomas and dedifferentiated liposarcomas with low infiltrating CD3 + T-lymphocyte levels nominates the complement cascade as a candidate immunotherapeutic target. Comparative analysis of proteomic and transcriptomic profiles highlights the proteomic-specific features for optimal risk stratification in angiosarcomas. Finally, we define functional signatures termed Sarcoma Proteomic Modules which transcend histological subtype classification and show that a vesicle transport protein signature is an independent prognostic factor for distant metastasis. Our study highlights the utility of proteomics for identifying molecular subgroups with implications for risk stratification and therapy selection and provides a rich resource for future sarcoma research.
PXD039553	37386214	Readout of histone methylation by Trim24 locally restricts chromatin opening by p53. 	Readout of histone methylation by Trim24 locally restricts chromatin opening by p53	Trim24 p53 mouse	The genomic binding sites of the transcription factor (TF) and tumor suppressor p53 are unusually diverse with regard to their chromatin features, including histone modifications, raising the possibility that the local chromatin environment can contextualize p53 regulation. Here, we show that epigenetic characteristics of closed chromatin, such as DNA methylation, do not influence the binding of p53 across the genome. Instead, the ability of p53 to open chromatin and activate its target genes is locally restricted by its cofactor Trim24. Trim24 binds to both p53 and unmethylated histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4), thereby preferentially localizing to those p53 sites that reside in closed chromatin, whereas it is deterred from accessible chromatin by H3K4 methylation. The presence of Trim24 increases cell viability upon stress and enables p53 to affect gene expression as a function of the local chromatin state. These findings link H3K4 methylation to p53 function and illustrate how specificity in chromatin can be achieved, not by TF-intrinsic sensitivity to histone modifications, but by employing chromatin-sensitive cofactors that locally modulate TF function.
PXD025522	37387563	Small Extracellular Vesicle-Derived vWF Induces a Positive Feedback Loop between Tumor and Endothelial Cells to Promote Angiogenesis and Metastasis in Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	Patient-derived extracellular vesicles drive cancer stemness and tumorigenesis in hepatocellular carcinoma via polymeric immunoglobulin receptor	EVs, HCC, Shotgun proteomics	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a hypervascular malignancy by which its growth and dissemination are largely driven by the modulation of tumor-derived small extracellular vesicles (sEVs). Proteomic profiling of circulating sEVs of control individuals and HCC patients identifies von Willibrand factor (vWF) to be upregulated progressively along HCC stages. Elevated sEV-vWF levels are found in a larger cohort of HCC-sEV samples and metastatic HCC cell lines compared to their respective normal counterparts. Circulating sEVs of late-stage HCC patients markedly augment angiogenesis, tumor-endothelial adhesion, pulmonary vascular leakiness, and metastasis, which are significantly compromised by anti-vWF antibody. The role of vWF is further corroborated by the enhanced promoting effect of sEVs collected from vWF-overexpressing cells. sEV-vWF modulates endothelial cells through an elevated level of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2). Mechanistically, secreted FGF2 elicits a positive feedback response in HCC via the FGFR4/ERK1 signaling pathway. The co-administration of anti-vWF antibody or FGFR inhibitor significantly improves the treatment outcome of sorafenib in a patient-derived xenograft mouse model. This study reveals mutual stimulation between HCC and endothelial cells by tumor-derived sEVs and endothelial angiogenic factors, facilitating angiogenesis and metastasis. It also provides insights into a new therapeutic strategy involving blocking tumor-endothelial intercellular communication.
PXD045515	37389186	Systems crosstalk between antiviral response and cancerous pathways via extracellular vesicles in HIV-1-associated colorectal cancer. 	[HPP-2.0] Proteomics profiling  of HIV-1-associated colorectal cancer	HIV-1, colorectal cancer	HIV-1 associated colorectal cancer (HA-CRC) is one of the most understudied non-AIDS-defining cancers. In this study, we analyzed the proteome of HA-CRC and the paired remote tissues (HA-RT) through data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (MS). The quantified proteins could differentiate the HA-CRC and HA-RT groups per PCA or cluster analyses. As a background comparison, we reanalyzed the MS data of non-HIV-1 infected CRC (non-HA-CRC) published by CPTAC. According to the GSEA results, we found that HA-CRC and non-HA-CRC shared similarly over-represented KEGG pathways. Hallmark analysis suggested that terms of antiviral response were only significantly enriched in HA-CRC. The network and molecular system analysis centered the crosstalk of IFN-associated antiviral response and cancerous pathways, which was favored by significant up-regulation of ISGylated proteins as detected in the HA-CRC tissues. We further proved that defective HIV-1 reservoir cells as represented by the 8E5 cells could activate the IFN pathway in human macrophages via horizonal transfer of cell-associated HIV-1 RNA (CA-HIV RNA) carried by extracellular vesicles (EVs). In conclusion, HIV-1 reservoir cells secreted and CA-HIV RNA-containing EVs can induce IFN pathway activation in macrophages that contributes to one of the mechanistic explanations of the systems crosstalk between antiviral response and cancerous pathways in HA-CRC.
PXD036035	37389343	Homologous genes shared between probiotics and pathogens affect the adhesion of probiotics and exclusion of pathogens in the gut mucus of shrimp. 	Homologous genes shared between probiotics and pathogens affected the adhesion of probiotics and exclusion of pathogens in gut mucus	Lactobacillus pentosus, Probiotics	Clarifying mechanisms underlying the selective adhesion of probiotics and competitive exclusion of pathogens in the intestine is a central theme for shrimp health. Under experimental manipulation of probiotic strain (i.e., Lactiplantibacillus plantarum HC-2) adhesion to the shrimp mucus, this study tested the core hypothesis that homologous genes shared between probiotic and pathogen would affect the adhesion of probiotics and exclusion of pathogens by regulating the membrane proteins of probiotics. Results indicated that the reduction of FtsH protease activity, which significantly correlated with the increase of membrane proteins, could increase the adhesion ability of L. plantarum HC-2 to the mucus. These membrane proteins mainly involved in transport (glycine betaine/carnitine/choline ABC transporter choS, ABC transporter, ATP synthase subunit a atpB, amino acid permease) and regulation of cellular processes (histidine kinase). The genes encoding the membrane proteins were significantly (p < 0.05) up-regulated except those encoding ABC transporters and histidine kinases in L. plantarum HC-2 when co-cultured with Vibrio parahaemolyticus E1, indicating that these genes could help L. plantarum HC-2 to competitively exclude pathogens. Moreover, an arsenal of genes predicted to be involved in carbohydrate metabolism and bacteria-host interactions were identified in L. plantarum HC-2, indicating a clear strain adaption to host's gastrointestinal tract. This study advances our mechanistic understanding of the selective adhesion of probiotics and competitive exclusion of pathogens in the intestine, and has important implications for screening and applying new probiotics for maintaining gut stability and host health.
PXD038678	37389440	Assessment of a 60-Biomarker Health Surveillance Panel (HSP) on Whole Blood from Remote Sampling Devices by Targeted LC/MRM-MS and Discovery DIA-MS Analysis. 	MRM Analysis of Cap, Ven and plasma	capillary blood, plasma MRM, venous blood	Telehealth, accessing healthcare and wellness remotely, should be a cost-effective and efficient way for individuals to receive care. The convenience of having a reliable remote collection device for blood tests will facilitate access to precision medicine and healthcare. Herein, we tested a 60-biomarker health surveillance panel (HSP), containing 35 FDA/LDT assays and covering at least 14 pathological states, on 8 healthy individuals' ability to collect their own capillary blood from a lancet finger prick and directly compared it to the traditional phlebotomist venous blood and plasma collection methods. All samples were spiked with 114 stable-isotope-labeled (SIL) HSP peptides and quantitatively analyzed by liquid chromatography-multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (LC/MRM-MS) scheduled method targeting 466 transitions from 114 HSP peptides and by a discovery data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) method. The average peak area ratio (PAR) of the HSP quantifier peptide transitions from all 8 volunteers' capillary blood (n = 48), venous blood (n = 48), and matched plasma (n = 24) was <20% coefficients of variation (CV). Heat map analysis of all 8 volunteers demonstrated that each individual had a unique biosignature. Biological replicates from capillary blood and venous blood clustered within each volunteer in k-means clustering analysis. Pearson statistical analysis of the three biofluids indicated that there was >90% similarity. Discovery DIA-MS analysis of the same samples using a plasma spectral library and a pan-human spectral library identified 1121 and 4661 total proteins, respectively. In addition, at least 122 FDA-approved biomarkers were identified. DIA-MS analysis reproducibly quantitated (<30% CV) ~600-700 proteins in capillary blood, ~800 proteins in venous blood, and ~300-400 proteins in plasma, demonstrating that an expansive biomarker panel is possible with current mass spectrometry technology. Both targeted LC/MRM-MS and discovery DIA-MS analysis of whole blood collected on remote sampling devices are viable options for personal proteome biosignature stratification in precision medicine and precision health.
PXD043082	37389864	ULK phosphorylation of STX17 controls autophagosome maturation via FLNA. 	ULK phosphorylation of STX17 controls autophagosome maturation via FLNA	FLNA, STX17, ULK phosphorylation, autophagosome	Autophagy is a conserved and tightly regulated intracellular quality control pathway. ULK is a key kinase in autophagy initiation, but whether ULK kinase activity also participates in the late stages of autophagy remains unknown. Here, we found that the autophagosomal SNARE protein, STX17, is phosphorylated by ULK at residue S289, beyond which it localizes specifically to autophagosomes. Inhibition of STX17 phosphorylation prevents such autophagosome localization. FLNA was then identified as a linker between ATG8 family proteins (ATG8s) and STX17 with essential involvement in STX17 recruitment to autophagosomes. Phosphorylation of STX17 S289 promotes its interaction with FLNA, activating its recruitment to autophagosomes and facilitating autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Disease-causative mutations around the ATG8s- and STX17-binding regions of FLNA disrupt its interactions with ATG8s and STX17, inhibiting STX17 recruitment and autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Cumulatively, our study reveals an unexpected role of ULK in autophagosome maturation, uncovers its regulatory mechanism in STX17 recruitment, and highlights a potential association between autophagy and FLNA.
PXD040906	37390892	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis provides novel insight into the postnatal testicular development of Hu sheep. 	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis provides novel insight into the postnatal testicular development of Hu sheep	fertility, sheep, testicular development	Testicular development is an intricate and coordinated process in which thousands of proteins are involved in the regulation of somatic cells development and spermatogenesis. However, knowledge about the proteomic changes during postnatal testicular development in Hu sheep is still elusive. The study was conducted to characterize the protein profiles at four key stages during postnatal testicular development, including infant (0-month-old, M0), puberty (3-month-old, M3), sexual maturity (6-month-old, M6) and body maturity (12-month-old, M12), and between the large- and small-testis groups at 6 months in Hu sheep. Consequently, 5252 proteins were identified using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) methods, and 465, 1261, 231 and 1080 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were found between M0_vs_M3, M3_vs_M6L, M6L_vs_M12, and M6L_vs_M6S, respectively. GO and KEGG analysis revealed that the majority of DAPs were involved in cellular process, metabolic process and immune system-related pathways. Furthermore, a protein-protein interaction network was constructed using 86 fertility-related DAPs, and five proteins with the highest degree were represented as hub proteins, including CTNNB1, ADAM2, ACR, HSPA2 and GRB2. This study provided new insights into the regulation mechanisms of postnatal testicular development and identified several potential biomarkers for selecting the high-fertility rams. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: Testicular development is an intricate developmental process in which thousands of proteins are involved in regulating the somatic cells development and spermatogenesis. However, knowledge about the proteome changes during postnatal testicular development in Hu sheep is still elusive. This study provides comprehensive insights into the dynamic changes in the sheep testis proteome during postnatal testicular development. Additionally, testis size is positively correlated with semen quality and ejaculation volume, also for the merits of easy measurement, high heritability and selection efficiency, is an important indicator to select candidate rams with high fertility. The functional analyses of the acquired candidate proteins may help us gain a better understanding of the molecular regulatory mechanisms of testicular development.
PXD057759	37390896	High-throughput proteomics of breast cancer subtypes: Biological characterization and multiple candidate biomarker panels to patients' stratification. 	Proteomics and peptidomics of breast cancer subtypes	breast cancer, peptidomics	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The actual classification of breast tumors in subtypes represents an attempt to stratify patients into clinically cohesive groups, nevertheless, clinicians still lack reproducible and reliable protein biomarkers for breast cancer subtype discrimination. In this study, we aimed to access the differentially expressed proteins between these tumors and its biological implications, contributing to the subtype's biological and clinical characterization, and with protein panels for subtype discrimination. METHODS: In our study, we applied high-throughput mass spectrometry, bioinformatic, and machine learning approaches to investigate the proteome of different breast cancer subtypes. RESULTS: We identified that each subtype depends on different protein expression patterns to sustain its malignancy, and also alterations in pathways and processes that can be associated with each subtype and its biological and clinical behaviors. Regarding subtype biomarkers, our panels achieved performances with at least 75% of sensibility and 92% of specificity. In the validation cohort, the panels obtained acceptable to outstanding performances (AUC = 0.740 to 1.00). CONCLUSIONS: In general, our results expand the accuracy of breast cancer subtypes' proteomic landscape and improve the understanding of its biological heterogeneity. In addition, we identified potential protein biomarkers for the stratification of breast cancer patients, improving the repertoire of reliable protein biomarkers. SIGNIFICANCE: Breast cancer is the most diagnosed cancer type worldwide and the most lethal cancer in women. As a heterogeneous disease, breast cancer tumors can be classified into four major subtypes, each presenting particular molecular alterations, clinical behaviors, and treatment responses. Thus, a pivotal step in patient management and clinical decisions is accurately classifying breast tumor subtypes. Currently, this classification is made by the immunohistochemical detection of four classical markers (estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, HER2 receptor, and the Ki-67 index); however, it is known that these markers alone do not fully discriminate the breast tumor subtypes. Also, the poor understanding of the molecular alterations of each subtype leads to a challenging decision-making process regarding treatment choice and prognostic determination. This study, through high-throughput label-free mass-spectrometry data acquisition and downstream bioinformatic analysis, advances in the proteomic discrimination of breast tumors and achieves an in-depth characterization of the subtype's proteomes. Here, we indicate how the variations in the subtype's proteome can influence the tumor's biological and clinical differences, highlighting the variation in the expression pattern of oncoproteins and tumor suppressor proteins between subtypes. Also, through our machine-learning approach, we propose multi-protein panels with the potential to discriminate the breast cancer subtypes. Our panels achieved high classification performance in our cohort and in the independent validation cohort, demonstrating their potential to improve the current tumor discrimination system as complements to the classical immunohistochemical classification.
PXD041207	37390987	A conserved tryptophan in the acylated segment of RTX toxins controls their beta2 integrin-independent cell penetration. 	A conserved tryptophan in the acylated segment controls beta2- integrin-independent cell penetration of RTX toxins	RTX toxin, Trp-Pro interaction, acylated segment, adenylate cyclase toxin, cytotoxicity, hydrogen-deuterium exchange, thermal stability, tryptophan residue, alpha-hemolysin, beta2-integrins	The acylated Repeats in ToXins (RTX) leukotoxins, the adenylate cyclase toxin (CyaA) or alpha-hemolysin (HlyA), bind beta2 integrins of leukocytes but also penetrate cells lacking these receptors. We show that the indoles of conserved tryptophans in the acylated segments, W876 of CyaA and W579 of HlyA, are crucial for beta2 integrin-independent membrane penetration. Substitutions of W876 by aliphatic or aromatic residues did not affect acylation, folding, or the activities of CyaA W876L/F/Y variants on cells expressing high amounts of the beta2 integrin CR3. However, toxin activity of CyaA W876L/F/Y on cells lacking CR3 was strongly impaired. Similarly, a W579L substitution selectively reduced HlyA W579L cytotoxicity towards cells lacking beta2 integrins. Intriguingly, the W876L/F/Y substitutions increased the thermal stability (Tm) of CyaA by 4 to 8 degreesC but locally enhanced the accessibility to deuteration of the hydrophobic segment and of the interface of the two acylated loops. W876Q substitution (showing no increase in Tm), or combination of W876F with a cavity-filling V822M substitution (this combination decreasing the Tm closer to that of CyaA), yielded a milder defect of toxin activity on erythrocytes lacking CR3. Furthermore, the activity of CyaA on erythrocytes was also selectively impaired when the interaction of the pyrrolidine of P848 with the indole of W876 was ablated. Hence, the bulky indoles of residues W876 of CyaA, or W579 of HlyA, rule the local positioning of the acylated loops and enable a membrane-penetrating conformation in the absence of RTX toxin docking onto the cell membrane by beta2 integrins.
PXD031638	37391044	Evolutionary Quantitative Proteomics of Reproductive Protein Divergence in Drosophila. 	Evolutionary quantitative proteomics of reproductive interactions in Drosophila	Drosophila americana, Drosophila novamexicana, Drosophila virilis, Female reproductive tract, Seminal fluid proteins, TMT, postmating prezygotic isolation, reproductive isolation, sperm	Reproductive traits often evolve rapidly between species. Understanding the causes and consequences of this rapid divergence requires characterization of female and male reproductive proteins and their effect on fertilization success. Species in the Drosophila virilis clade exhibit rampant interspecific reproductive incompatibilities, making them ideal for studies on diversification of reproductive proteins and their role in speciation. Importantly, the role of intraejaculate protein abundance and allocation in interspecific divergence is poorly understood. Here, we identify and quantify the transferred male ejaculate proteome using multiplexed isobaric labeling of the lower female reproductive tract before and immediately after mating using three species of the virilis group. We identified over 200 putative male ejaculate proteins, many of which show differential abundance between species, suggesting that males transfer a species-specific allocation of seminal fluid proteins during copulation. We also identified over 2000 female reproductive proteins, which contain female-specific serine-type endopeptidases that showed differential abundance between species and elevated rates of molecular evolution, similar to that of some male seminal fluid proteins. Our findings suggest that reproductive protein divergence can also manifest in terms of species-specific protein abundance patterns.
PXD039543	37391045	Unified Workflow for the Rapid and In-Depth Characterization of Bacterial Proteomes. 	Unified workflow for the rapid and in-depth characterization of bacterial proteomes	DDA, DIA, bacteria, global proteome profiling, microflow, nanoflow	Bacteria are the most abundant and diverse organisms among the kingdoms of life. Due to this excessive variance, finding a unified, comprehensive, and safe workflow for quantitative bacterial proteomics is challenging. In this study, we have systematically evaluated and optimized sample preparation, mass spectrometric data acquisition, and data analysis strategies in bacterial proteomics. We investigated workflow performances on six representative species with highly different physiologic properties to mimic bacterial diversity. The best sample preparation strategy was a cell lysis protocol in 100% trifluoroacetic acid followed by an in-solution digest. Peptides were separated on a 30-min linear microflow liquid chromatography gradient and analyzed in data-independent acquisition mode. Data analysis was performed with DIA-NN using a predicted spectral library. Performance was evaluated according to the number of identified proteins, quantitative precision, throughput, costs, and biological safety. With this rapid workflow, over 40% of all encoded genes were detected per bacterial species. We demonstrated the general applicability of our workflow on a set of 23 taxonomically and physiologically diverse bacterial species. We could confidently identify over 45,000 proteins in the combined dataset, of which 30,000 have not been experimentally validated before. Our work thereby provides a valuable resource for the microbial scientific community. Finally, we grew Escherichia coli and Bacillus cereus in replicates under 12 different cultivation conditions to demonstrate the high-throughput suitability of the workflow. The proteomic workflow we present in this manuscript does not require any specialized equipment or commercial software and can be easily applied by other laboratories to support and accelerate the proteomic exploration of the bacterial kingdom.
PXD038287	37391572	Differential intracellular trafficking of extracellular vesicles in microglia and astrocytes. 	Differential intracellular trafficking of exosomes in microglia and astrocytes	brain-derived exosomes, alpha-synuclein KO mouse brain hemispheres (CD57BL6)	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as key players in cell-to-cell communication in both physiological and pathological processes in the Central Nervous System. Thus far, the intracellular pathways involved in uptake and trafficking of EVs within different cell types of the brain are poorly understood. In our study, the endocytic processes and subcellular sorting of EVs were investigated in primary glial cells, particularly linked with the EV-associated alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) transmission. Mouse microglia and astrocytic primary cultures were incubated with DiI-stained mouse brain-derived EVs. The internalization and trafficking pathways were analyzed in cells treated with pharmacological reagents that block the major endocytic pathways. Brain-derived EVs were internalized by both glial cell types; however, uptake was more efficient in microglia than in astrocytes. Colocalization of EVs with early and late endocytic markers (Rab5, Lamp1) indicated that EVs are sorted to endo-lysosomes for subsequent processing. Blocking actin-dependent phagocytosis and/or macropinocytosis with Cytochalasin D or EIPA inhibited EV entry into glial cells, whereas treatment with inhibitors that strip cholesterol off the plasma membrane, induced uptake, however differentially altered endosomal sorting. EV-associated fibrillar alpha-Syn was efficiently internalized and detected in Rab5- and Lamp1-positive compartments within microglia. Our study strongly suggests that EVs enter glial cells through phagocytosis and/or macropinocytosis and are sorted to endo-lysosomes for subsequent processing. Further, brain-derived EVs serve as scavengers and mediate cell-to-glia transfer of pathological alpha-Syn which is also targeted to the endolysosomal pathway, suggesting a beneficial role in microglia-mediated clearance of toxic protein aggregates, present in numerous neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD042842	37393345	SUMOylation of Rho-associated protein kinase 2 induces goblet cell metaplasia in allergic airways. 	An unbiased quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis in16HBE cells	16HBE cells, 2-D08, IL-13, phosphoproteomics analysis	Allergic asthma is characterized by goblet cell metaplasia and subsequent mucus hypersecretion that contribute to the morbidity and mortality of this disease. Here, we explore the potential role and underlying mechanism of protein SUMOylation-mediated goblet cell metaplasia. The components of SUMOylaion machinery are specifically expressed in healthy human bronchial epithelia and robustly upregulated in bronchial epithelia of patients or mouse models with allergic asthma. Intratracheal suppression of SUMOylation by 2-D08 robustly attenuates not only allergen-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and hyperreactivity, but IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia. Phosphoproteomics and biochemical analyses reveal SUMOylation on K1007 activates ROCK2, a master regulator of goblet cell metaplasia, by facilitating its binding to and activation by RhoA, and an E3 ligase PIAS1 is responsible for SUMOylation on K1007. As a result, knockdown of PIAS1 in bronchial epithelia inactivates ROCK2 to attenuate IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia, and bronchial epithelial knock-in of ROCK2(K1007R) consistently inactivates ROCK2 to alleviate not only allergen-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and hyperreactivity, but IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia. Together, SUMOylation-mediated ROCK2 activation is an integral component of Rho/ROCK signaling in regulating the pathological conditions of asthma and thus SUMOylation is an additional target for the therapeutic intervention of this disease.
PXD036539	37393376	Targeted protein degradation reveals BET bromodomains as the cellular target of Hedgehog pathway inhibitor-1. 	Targeted protein degradation reveals BET bromodomains as the cellular target of Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitor-1	Hedgehog pathway, PROTAC, protein degradation	Target deconvolution of small molecule hits from phenotypic screens presents a major challenge. Many screens have been conducted to find inhibitors for the Hedgehog signaling pathway - a developmental pathway with many implications in health and disease - yielding many hits but only few identified cellular targets. We here present a strategy for target identification based on Proteolysis-Targeting Chimeras (PROTACs), combined with label-free quantitative proteomics. We develop a PROTAC based on Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitor-1 (HPI-1), a phenotypic screen hit with unknown cellular target. Using this Hedgehog Pathway PROTAC (HPP) we identify and validate BET bromodomains as the cellular targets of HPI-1. Furthermore, we find that HPP-9 is a long-acting Hedgehog pathway inhibitor through prolonged BET bromodomain degradation. Collectively, we provide a powerful PROTAC-based approach for target deconvolution, that answers the longstanding question of the cellular target of HPI-1 and yields a PROTAC that acts on the Hedgehog pathway.
PXD043089	37393406	ASH1L-MRG15 methyltransferase deposits H3K4me3 and FACT for damage verification in nucleotide excision repair. 	MRG15 interactome upon UV irradiation	MRG15, NER	To recognize DNA adducts, nucleotide excision repair (NER) deploys the XPC sensor, which detects damage-induced helical distortions, followed by engagement of TFIIH for lesion verification. Accessory players ensure that this factor handover takes place in chromatin where DNA is tightly wrapped around histones. Here, we describe how the histone methyltransferase ASH1L, once activated by MRG15, helps XPC and TFIIH to navigate through chromatin and induce global-genome NER hotspots. Upon UV irradiation, ASH1L adds H3K4me3 all over the genome (except in active gene promoters), thus priming chromatin for XPC relocations from native to damaged DNA. The ASH1L-MRG15 complex further recruits the histone chaperone FACT to DNA lesions. In the absence of ASH1L, MRG15 or FACT, XPC is misplaced and persists on damaged DNA without being able to deliver the lesions to TFIIH. We conclude that ASH1L-MRG15 makes damage verifiable by the NER machinery through the sequential deposition of H3K4me3 and FACT.
PXD036063	37393837	CD147 monoclonal antibody attenuates abdominal aortic aneurysm formation in angiotensin II-Infused apoE(-/-) mice. 	CD147 monoclonal antibody attenuates abdominal aortic aneurysm formation in angiotensin II-Infused apoE-/- mice	CD147 monoclonal antibody	BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a life threatening vascular disease. Our previous study reported the upregulation of CD147 expression in human aortic aneurysms. OBJECTIVE: In this study, we injected apoE-/- mice intraperitoneally with CD147 monoclonal antibody or IgG control antibody to observe its effect on Angiotensin II (AngII) induced AAA formation. METHODS: ApoE-/- mice were randomly divided into an AngII+CD147 antibody group (n = 20) and an AngII+IgG antibody group (n = 20). The Alzet osmotic minipump was implanted subcutaneously into the backs of mice to infuse AngII (1000 ng/kg/min) for 28 days and subsequently treated with CD147 monoclonal antibody or control IgG mAb (10 mug/mouse/day) beginning one day after surgery. Body weight, food intake, drinking volume and blood pressure were measured weekly throughout the study. After 4 weeks of injection, routine bloodwork measuring liver function, kidney function and lipid levels were recorded. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), Masson's trichrome, and Elastic van Gieson (EVG) staining were used to evaluate the pathological changes in blood vessels. In addition, Immunohistochemical assay was used to detect infiltration of inflammatory cells. Tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomic analysis was used to define differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) using a p-value < 0.05 and fold change > 1.2 or < 0.83 as the threshold. Subsequently, we conducted protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and GO enrichment analysis to determine the core biological function altered after CD147 antibody injection. RESULTS: The CD147 monoclonal antibody suppresses Ang II-induced AAA formation in apoE-/- mice and reduced aortic expansion, elastic lamina degradation, and inflammatory cells accumulation. Bioinformatics analysis showed that Ptk6, Itch, Casp3, and Oas1a were the hub DEPs. These DEPs in the two group were mainly involved in collagen fibril organization, extracellular matrix organization, and muscle contraction. These data robustly demonstrated that CD147 monoclonal antibody suppresses Ang II-induced AAA formation through reduction of inflammatory response and regulation of the above defined hub proteins and biological processes. Thus, the CD147 monoclonal antibody might be a promising target in the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm.
PXD037951	37394064	Identifying Patients With Rapid Progression From Hormone-Sensitive to Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer: A Retrospective Study. 	Identifying the patients with rapid progression from hormone-sensitive to castration-resistant prostate cancer	castration-resistant prostate cancer, hormone-sensitive prostate cancer	Prostate cancer (PCa) is the second most prevalent malignancy and the fifth cause of cancer-related deaths in men. A crucial challenge is identifying the population at risk of rapid progression from hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (HSPC) to lethal castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). We collected 78 HSPC biopsies and measured their proteomes using pressure cycling technology and a pulsed data-independent acquisition pipeline. We quantified 7355 proteins using these HSPC biopsies. A total of 251 proteins showed differential expression between patients with a long- or short-term progression to CRPC. Using a random forest model, we identified seven proteins that significantly discriminated long- from short-term progression patients, which were used to classify PCa patients with an area under the curve of 0.873. Next, one clinical feature (Gleason sum) and two proteins (BGN and MAPK11) were found to be significantly associated with rapid disease progression. A nomogram model using these three features was generated for stratifying patients into groups with significant progression differences (p-value = 1.3x10(-4)). To conclude, we identified proteins associated with a fast progression to CRPC and an unfavorable prognosis. Based on these proteins, our machine learning and nomogram models stratified HSPC into high- and low-risk groups and predicted their prognoses. These models may aid clinicians in predicting the progression of patients, guiding individualized clinical management and decisions.
PXD040583	37395192	Potential of Negative-Ion-Mode Proteomics: An MS1-Only Approach. 	Potential of Negative Ion Mode Proteomics: MS1-Only Approach	MS/MS free, negative ion mode	Current proteomics approaches rely almost exclusively on using the positive ionization mode, resulting in inefficient ionization of many acidic peptides. This study investigates protein identification efficiency in the negative ionization mode using the DirectMS1 method. DirectMS1 is an ultrafast data acquisition method based on accurate peptide mass measurements and predicted retention times. Our method achieves the highest rate of protein identification in the negative ion mode to date, identifying over 1000 proteins in a human cell line at a 1% false discovery rate. This is accomplished using a single-shot 10 min separation gradient, comparable to lengthy MS/MS-based analyses. Optimizing separation and experimental conditions was achieved by utilizing mobile buffers containing 2.5 mM imidazole and 3% isopropanol. The study emphasized the complementary nature of data obtained in positive and negative ion modes. Combining the results from all replicates in both polarities increased the number of identified proteins to 1774. Additionally, we analyzed the method's efficiency using different proteases for protein digestion. Among the four studied proteases (LysC, GluC, AspN, and trypsin), trypsin and LysC demonstrated the highest protein identification yield. This suggests that digestion procedures utilized in positive-mode proteomics can be effectively applied in the negative ion mode. Data are deposited to ProteomeXchange: PXD040583.
PXD039066	37395315	Optimizing single cell proteomics using trapped ion mobility spectrometry for label-free experiments. 	Optimizing single cell proteomics on a trapped ion mobility spectrometry for label-free experiments	DDA-PASEF, label-free, primary T cells	Although single cell RNA-seq has had a tremendous impact on biological research, a corresponding technology for unbiased mass spectrometric analysis of single cells has only recently become available. Significant technological breakthroughs including miniaturized sample handling have enabled proteome profiling of single cells. Furthermore, trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS) in combination with parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation operated in data-dependent acquisition mode (DDA-PASEF) allowed improved proteome coverage from low-input samples. It has been demonstrated that modulating the ion flux in TIMS affects the overall performance of proteome profiling. However, the effect of TIMS settings on the analysis of low-input samples has been less investigated. Thus, we sought to optimize the conditions of TIMS with regard to ion accumulation/ramp times and ion mobility range for low-input samples. We observed that an ion accumulation time of 180 ms and monitoring a narrower ion mobility range from 0.7 to 1.3 V s cm(-2) resulted in a substantial gain in the depth of proteome coverage and in detecting proteins with low abundance. We used these optimized conditions for proteome profiling of sorted human primary T cells, which yielded an average of 365, 804, 1116, and 1651 proteins from single, five, ten, and forty T cells, respectively. Notably, we demonstrated that the depth of proteome coverage from a low number of cells was sufficient to delineate several essential metabolic pathways and the T cell receptor signaling pathway. Finally, we showed the feasibility of detecting post-translational modifications including phosphorylation and acetylation from single cells. We believe that such an approach could be applied to label-free analysis of single cells obtained from clinically relevant samples.
PXD036538	37395448	Human TRMT2A methylates tRNA and contributes to translation fidelity. 	Human TRMT2A methylates different components of the translation machinery and contributes to translation fidelity	Methyl-5-uridine (m5U), RNA biogenesis, RNA methylation, interactome, mammalia, tRNA methyltransferase 2 homolog A (hTRMT2A), translational fidelity	5-Methyluridine (m5U) is one of the most abundant RNA modifications found in cytosolic tRNA. tRNA methyltransferase 2 homolog A (hTRMT2A) is the dedicated mammalian enzyme for m5U formation at tRNA position 54. However, its RNA binding specificity and functional role in the cell are not well understood. Here we dissected structural and sequence requirements for binding and methylation of its RNA targets. Specificity of tRNA modification by hTRMT2A is achieved by a combination of modest binding preference and presence of a uridine in position 54 of tRNAs. Mutational analysis together with cross-linking experiments identified a large hTRMT2A-tRNA binding surface. Furthermore, complementing hTRMT2A interactome studies revealed that hTRMT2A interacts with proteins involved in RNA biogenesis. Finally, we addressed the question of the importance of hTRMT2A function by showing that its knockdown reduces translation fidelity. These findings extend the role of hTRMT2A beyond tRNA modification towards a role in translation.
PXD042395	37395449	PEPseq quantifies transcriptome-wide changes in protein occupancy and reveals selective translational repression after translational stress. 	PEPseq Quantifies Transcriptome-Wide Changes in Protein Occupancy and Reveals Selective Translational Repression After Translational Stress	AHA, Protein-RNA crosslinking, SILAC, arsenite washout, nascent proteome enrichment, protein occupancy on RNA, recovery from translational arrest	Post-transcriptional gene regulation is accomplished by the interplay of the transcriptome with RNA-binding proteins, which occurs in a dynamic manner in response to altered cellular conditions. Recording the combined occupancy of all proteins binding to the transcriptome offers the opportunity to interrogate if a particular treatment leads to any interaction changes, pointing to sites in RNA that undergo post-transcriptional regulation. Here, we establish a method to monitor protein occupancy in a transcriptome-wide fashion by RNA sequencing. To this end, peptide-enhanced pull-down for RNA sequencing (or PEPseq) uses metabolic RNA labelling with 4-thiouridine (4SU) for light-induced protein-RNA crosslinking, and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) chemistry to isolate protein-crosslinked RNA fragments across all long RNA biotypes. We use PEPseq to investigate changes in protein occupancy during the onset of arsenite-induced translational stress in human cells and reveal an increase of protein interactions in the coding region of a distinct set of mRNAs, including mRNAs coding for the majority of cytosolic ribosomal proteins. We use quantitative proteomics to demonstrate that translation of these mRNAs remains repressed during the initial hours of recovery after arsenite stress. Thus, we present PEPseq as a discovery platform for the unbiased investigation of post-transcriptional regulation.
PXD041477	37395749	Anti-biofilm effect of salivary histatin 5 on Porphyromonas gingivalis. 	Anti-biofilm effect of salivary histatin 5 on Porphyromonas gingivalis	Porphyromonas gingivalis	This study aimed to investigate the effects of salivary histatin 5 (Hst5) on Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis) biofilms in vitro and in vivo and the possible mechanisms. In in vitro experiments, P. gingivalis biomass was determined by crystal violet staining. Polymerase chain reaction, scanning electron microscopy, and confocal laser scanning microscopy were used to determine the Hst5 concentration. A search for potential targets was performed using transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. In vivo experimental periodontitis was established in rats to evaluate the effects of Hst5 on periodontal tissues. Experimental results showed that 25 microg/mL Hst5 effectively inhibited biofilm formation, and increased concentrations of Hst5 increased the inhibitive effect. Hst5 might bind to the outer membrane protein RagAB. A combination of transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that Hst5 could regulate membrane function and metabolic processes in P. gingivalis, in which RpoD and FeoB proteins were involved. In the rat periodontitis model, alveolar bone resorption and inflammation levels in periodontal tissues were reduced by 100 microg/mL Hst5. This study showed that 25 microg/mL Hst5 inhibited P. gingivalis biofilm formation in vitro by changing membrane function and metabolic process, and RpoD and FeoB proteins might play important roles in this process. Moreover, 100 microg/mL Hst5 inhibited periodontal inflammation and alveolar bone loss in rat periodontitis via its antibacterial and anti-inflammatory effects. KEY POINTS: * Anti-biofilm activity of histatin 5 on Porphyromonas gingivalis was investigated. * Histatin 5 inhibited Porphyromonas gingivalis biofilm formation. * Histatin 5 showed inhibitory effects on the occurrence of rat periodontitis.
PXD039934	37396121	Changes in glycosylated proteins in colostrum and mature milk and their implication. 	Changes in glycosylated proteins in colostrum and mature milk and their implication	IgA, colostrum, glycoproteins, host defense, mature milk	Introduction: Glycosylation is one of the essential post-translational modifications that influences the function of milk proteins. Methods: In the present study, 998 proteins and 764 glycosylated sites from 402 glycoproteins were identified in human milk by TMT labeling proteomics. Compared to human milk proteins, the glycoproteins were mainly enriched in cell adhesion, proteolysis, and defense/immune process. Results: The abundance of 353 glycosylated sites and their 179 parent proteins was quantified. After normalization to their parent protein's abundance, 78 glycosylated sites in 56 glycoproteins and 10 glycosylated sites in 10 glycoproteins were significantly higher in colostrum and mature milk, respectively. These changed glycoproteins were mainly related to host defense. Intriguingly, one glycosylated site (Asp144) in IgA and two glycosylated sites (Asp38 and Asp1079) in tenascin are significantly upregulated even though their protein abundance was downregulated during lactation. Discussion: This study helps us figure out the critical glycosylated sites in proteins that might influence their biological function in an unbiased way.
PXD038943	37398081	Expression of ALS-PFN1 impairs vesicular degradation in iPSC-derived microglia. 	TMT proteomic analysis of PFN1 iPSC-microglia	ALS, microglia, profilin 1	Microglia play a pivotal role in neurodegenerative disease pathogenesis, but the mechanisms underlying microglia dysfunction and toxicity remain to be fully elucidated. To investigate the effect of neurodegenerative disease-linked genes on the intrinsic properties of microglia, we studied microglia-like cells derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), termed iMGs, harboring mutations in profilin-1 (PFN1) that are causative for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). ALS-PFN1 iMGs exhibited lipid dysmetabolism and deficits in phagocytosis, a critical microglia function. Our cumulative data implicate an effect of ALS-linked PFN1 on the autophagy pathway, including enhanced binding of mutant PFN1 to the autophagy signaling molecule PI3P, as an underlying cause of defective phagocytosis in ALS-PFN1 iMGs. Indeed, phagocytic processing was restored in ALS-PFN1 iMGs with Rapamycin, an inducer of autophagic flux. These outcomes demonstrate the utility of iMGs for neurodegenerative disease research and highlight microglia vesicular degradation pathways as potential therapeutic targets for these disorders.
PXD040736	37399331	Nuclear mRNPs are compact particles packaged with a network of proteins promoting RNA-RNA interactions. 	Protein content and proximity map of yeast nuclear mRNPs	RNA annealing, cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS), mRNA synthesis, mRNP assembly, ribonucleoprotein particles	Messenger RNAs (mRNAs) are at the center of the central dogma of molecular biology. In eukaryotic cells, these long ribonucleic acid polymers do not exist as naked transcripts; rather, they associate with mRNA-binding proteins to form messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) complexes. Recently, global proteomic and transcriptomic studies have provided comprehensive inventories of mRNP components. However, knowledge of the molecular features of distinct mRNP populations has remained elusive. We purified endogenous nuclear mRNPs from Saccharomyces cerevisiae by harnessing the mRNP biogenesis factors THO and Sub2 in biochemical procedures optimized to preserve the integrity of these transient ribonucleoprotein assemblies. We found that these mRNPs are compact particles that contain multiple copies of Yra1, an essential protein with RNA-annealing properties. To investigate their molecular and architectural organization, we used a combination of proteomics, RNA sequencing, cryo-electron microscopy, cross-linking mass spectrometry, structural models, and biochemical assays. Our findings indicate that yeast nuclear mRNPs are packaged around an intricate network of interconnected proteins capable of promoting RNA-RNA interactions via their positively charged intrinsically disordered regions. The evolutionary conservation of the major mRNA-packaging factor (yeast Yra1 and Aly/REF in metazoans) points toward a general paradigm governing nuclear mRNP packaging.
PXD041767	37401540	Computational design of matrix metalloprotenaise-9 (MMP-9) resistant to auto-cleavage. 	Computational design of Matrix Metalloprotenaise-9 (MMP-9) resistant to auto-cleavage	MMP-9, auto-cleavage, auto-degradation, enzyme engineering, matrix metalloproteases, protein engineering	Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is an endopeptidase that remodels the extracellular matrix. MMP-9 has been implicated in several diseases including neurodegeneration, arthritis, cardiovascular diseases, fibrosis and several types of cancer, resulting in a high demand for MMP-9 inhibitors for therapeutic purposes. For such drug design efforts, large amounts of MMP-9 are required. Yet, the catalytic domain of MMP-9 (MMP-9Cat) is an intrinsically unstable enzyme that tends to auto-cleave within minutes, making it difficult to use in drug design experiments and other biophysical studies. We set our goal to design MMP-9Cat variant that is active but stable to auto-cleavage. For this purpose, we first identified potential auto-cleavage sites on MMP-9Cat using mass spectroscopy and then eliminated the auto-cleavage site by predicting mutations that minimize auto-cleavage potential without reducing enzyme stability. Four computationally designed MMP-9Cat variants were experimentally constructed and evaluated for auto-cleavage and enzyme activity. Our best variant, Des2, with 2 mutations, was as active as the wild-type enzyme but did not exhibit auto-cleavage after 7 days of incubation at 37degreesC. This MMP-9Cat variant, with an identical with MMP-9Cat WT active site, is an ideal candidate for drug design experiments targeting MMP-9 and enzyme crystallization experiments. The developed strategy for MMP-9CAT stabilization could be applied to redesign other proteases to improve their stability for various biotechnological applications.
PXD038067	37402368	Targeted high-throughput mutagenesis of the human spliceosome reveals its in vivo operating principles. 	Proximity labelling and LCMSMS analysis of spliceosome complexes using SUGP1-miniTurbo	BioID, Proximity labeling, SUGP1, Spliceosome, miniTurbo	The spliceosome is a staggeringly complex machine, comprising, in humans, 5 snRNAs and >150 proteins. We scaled haploid CRISPR-Cas9 base editing to target the entire human spliceosome and investigated the mutants using the U2 snRNP/SF3b inhibitor, pladienolide B. Hypersensitive substitutions define functional sites in the U1/U2-containing A complex but also in components that act as late as the second chemical step after SF3b is dissociated. Viable resistance substitutions map not only to the pladienolide B-binding site but also to the G-patch domain of SUGP1, which lacks orthologs in yeast. We used these mutants and biochemical approaches to identify the spliceosomal disassemblase DHX15/hPrp43 as the ATPase ligand for SUGP1. These and other data support a model in which SUGP1 promotes splicing fidelity by triggering early spliceosome disassembly in response to kinetic blocks. Our approach provides a template for the analysis of essential cellular machines in humans.
PXD026053	37402719	Defining the landscape of circular RNAs in neuroblastoma unveils a global suppressive function of MYCN. 	human circRNA binding proteins in neuroblastoma	IMR-5, LC-MS, Neuroblastoma	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a regulatory RNA class. While cancer-driving functions have been identified for single circRNAs, how they modulate gene expression in cancer is not well understood. We investigate circRNA expression in the pediatric malignancy, neuroblastoma, through deep whole-transcriptome sequencing in 104 primary neuroblastomas covering all risk groups. We demonstrate that MYCN amplification, which defines a subset of high-risk cases, causes globally suppressed circRNA biogenesis directly dependent on the DHX9 RNA helicase. We detect similar mechanisms in shaping circRNA expression in the pediatric cancer medulloblastoma implying a general MYCN effect. Comparisons to other cancers identify 25 circRNAs that are specifically upregulated in neuroblastoma, including circARID1A. Transcribed from the ARID1A tumor suppressor gene, circARID1A promotes cell growth and survival, mediated by direct interaction with the KHSRP RNA-binding protein. Our study highlights the importance of MYCN regulating circRNAs in cancer and identifies molecular mechanisms, which explain their contribution to neuroblastoma pathogenesis.
PXD040744	37403840	Phosphoproteome analysis of cerebrospinal fluid extracellular vesicles in primary central nervous system lymphoma. 	Phosphoproteome Analysis of Cerebrospinal Fluid Extracellular Vesicles in Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma	CSF, EV, PCNSL, Phosphoproteome	Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare but highly aggressive extra-nodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, mostly of the diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) type. The present invasive diagnosis and poor prognosis of PCNSL propose an urgent need to develop molecular markers for early detection, real-time monitoring and treatment evaluation. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) are promising biomarker carriers for liquid biopsy of CNS diseases and brain tumors; however, research remains challenging due to the low concentration of EVs in the limited available volume of CSF from each individual patient and the low efficiency of existing methods for EV enrichment. Here, we introduce functionalized magnetic beads called EVTRAP (extracellular vesicles total recovery and purification) for rapid and efficient EV isolation from CSF. By coupling with high-performance mass spectrometry, over 19 000 peptides representing 1841 proteins were identified from just 30 muL of CSF. Furthermore, up to 3000 phosphopeptides representing over 1000 phosphoproteins were identified from about 2 mL of CSF. Finally, we analyzed the EV phosphoproteomics of CSF samples from PCNSL patients and non-PCNSL controls. Among them, multiple phosphoproteins related to PCNSL, including SPP1, MARCKS, NPM1 and VIM, were shown to be up-regulated in the PCNSL group. These results demonstrated the feasibility of the EVTRAP-based analytical strategy in CSF EV phosphoproteomic analysis of PCNSL molecular markers.
PXD038470	37405781	Global Neuropeptidome Profiling in Response to Predator Stress in Rat: Implications for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. 	Global Neuropeptidome Profiling in Response to Post-traumatic Stress Disorder in Rat	PTSD, neuropeptide	Traumatic stress triggers or exacerbates multiple psychiatric illnesses, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Nevertheless, the neurophysiological mechanisms underlying stress-induced pathology remain unclear, in part due to the limited understanding of neuronal signaling molecules, such as neuropeptides, in this process. Here, we developed mass spectrometry (MS)-based qualitative and quantitative analytical strategies to profile neuropeptides in rats exposed to predator odor (an ethologically relevant analogue of trauma-like stress) versus control subjects (no odor) to determine peptidomic alterations induced by trauma. In total, 628 unique neuropeptides were identified across 5 fear-circuitry-related brain regions. Brain-region-specific changes of several neuropeptide families, including granin, ProSAAS, opioids, cholecystokinin, and tachykinin, were also observed in the stressed group. Neuropeptides from the same protein precursor were found to vary across different brain regions, indicating the site-specific effects of predator stress. This study reveals for the first time the interaction between neuropeptides and traumatic stress, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms of stress-induced psychopathology and suggesting putative novel therapeutic strategies for disorders such as PTSD.
PXD036655	37407581	Beta cell dysfunction induced by bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2 is associated with histone modifications and decreased NeuroD1 chromatin binding. 	Beta cell dysfunction and dedifferentiation induced by Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP)-2 is associated with histone modifications and decreased NeuroD1 chromatin binding	BMP-2, Histone, RNA	Insufficient insulin secretion is a hallmark of type 2 diabetes and has been attributed to beta cell identity loss characterized by decreased expression of several key beta cell genes. The pro-inflammatory factor BMP-2 is upregulated in islets of Langerhans from individuals with diabetes and acts as an inhibitor of beta cell function and proliferation. Exposure to BMP-2 induces expression of Id1-4, Hes-1, and Hey-1 which are transcriptional regulators associated with loss of differentiation. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism by which BMP-2 induces beta cell dysfunction and loss of cell maturity. Mouse islets exposed to BMP-2 for 10 days showed impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and beta cell proliferation. BMP-2-induced beta cell dysfunction was associated with decreased expression of cell maturity and proliferation markers specific to the beta cell such as Ins1, Ucn3, and Ki67 and increased expression of Id1-4, Hes-1, and Hey-1. The top 30 most regulated proteins significantly correlated with corresponding mRNA expression. BMP-2-induced gene expression changes were associated with a predominant reduction in acetylation of H3K27 and a decrease in NeuroD1 chromatin binding activity. These results show that BMP-2 induces loss of beta cell maturity and suggest that remodeling of H3K27ac and decreased NeuroD1 DNA binding activity participate in the effect of BMP-2 on beta cell dysfunction.
PXD033181	37407816	Cooperation between bHLH transcription factors and histones for DNA access. 	Interactions between basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors and nucleosomes	DSSO crosslinking xlinkx PD transcription factor nucleosome human	The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family of transcription factors recognizes DNA motifs known as E-boxes (CANNTG) and includes 108 members(1). Here we investigate how chromatinized E-boxes are engaged by two structurally diverse bHLH proteins: the proto-oncogene MYC-MAX and the circadian transcription factor CLOCK-BMAL1 (refs. (2,3)). Both transcription factors bind to E-boxes preferentially near the nucleosomal entry-exit sites. Structural studies with engineered or native nucleosome sequences show that MYC-MAX or CLOCK-BMAL1 triggers the release of DNA from histones to gain access. Atop the H2A-H2B acidic patch(4), the CLOCK-BMAL1 Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS) dimerization domains engage the histone octamer disc. Binding of tandem E-boxes(5-7) at endogenous DNA sequences occurs through direct interactions between two CLOCK-BMAL1 protomers and histones and is important for circadian cycling. At internal E-boxes, the MYC-MAX leucine zipper can also interact with histones H2B and H3, and its binding is indirectly enhanced by OCT4 elsewhere on the nucleosome. The nucleosomal E-box position and the type of bHLH dimerization domain jointly determine the histone contact, the affinity and the degree of competition and cooperativity with other nucleosome-bound factors.
PXD031956	37407993	Vitamin D promotes epithelial tissue repair and host defense responses against influenza H1N1 virus and Staphylococcus aureus infections. 	Host defesen effects of vitamin D	airway epithelial organoids, influenza, vitaminD	BACKGROUND: Early studies indicated that vitamin D (VD) exerted pleiotropic extra-skeletal effects in the airway, but the definite linkage between VD deficiency and airway host responses remains unclear. METHODS: 142 cases of clinical data from Department of Otolaryngology, the Seventh Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, were collected to characterize the relationship between VD deficiency and chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS). Based on the clinical observations, 2.5-D airway epithelial organoids cultured at the air-liquid interface (ALI) were used to simulate the effects of VD treatment in the development of airway epithelium and the modulation of the host responses against influenza H1N1 virus (representing viral infections) and Staphylococcus aureus (representing bacterial infections) infections in the airway. The intrinsic mechanisms of VD deficiency underlying epithelial remodeling were mapped by transcriptomic as well as proteomic analyses. RESULTS: In this study we observed prevailing VD deficiency among inpatients suffering from CRS, a common disease predominantly characterized by epithelial impairment and remodeling. Relative to control organoids cultured without VD, long-term incubation with VD accelerated basal cell proliferation during nasal epithelial development. Under infectious conditions, VD treatment protected the organoids against influenza H1N1 virus and Staphylococcus aureus invasions by reinforcing the respiratory host defenses, including upregulation of LL37, suppression (or inhibition) of proinflammatory cytokines, strengthening of epithelial integrity, and mucociliary clearance. In silico analysis of transcriptomics and proteomics suggested that VD modulated the epithelial development and remodeling, involving epithelial cell proliferation/differentiation, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and cytokine signaling in the immune system, as well as responses to microbe, cell junction organization, and extracellular matrix organization via PTEN signaling, independent of TGF-beta signaling. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings emphasize the importance of managing VD deficiency in clinical settings for the sake of alleviating pathological epithelial remodeling. Vitamin D promotes epithelial tissue repair and host defense responses against influenza H1N1 and Staphylococcus aureus infections.
PXD040373	37408223	Is There a Difference in the Proteomic Profile of Stimulated and Unstimulated Saliva Samples from Pregnant Women with/without Obesity and Periodontitis? 	Is there difference in proteomic profile of stimulated and un-stimulated saliva samples from pregnant women with/without obesity and periodontitis?	Obesity, Periodontitis, Pregnancy, Saliva	This study aimed to compare the proteomic profile of stimulated and unstimulated saliva samples from pregnant women with/without obesity and periodontitis. Pregnant women were allocated into four groups: with obesity and periodontitis (OP); with obesity but without periodontitis (OWP); with normal BMI but with periodontitis (NP); with normal BMI and without periodontitis (NWP). Stimulated saliva (SS) and unstimulated saliva (US) samples were collected, and salivary proteins were extracted and individually processed by proteomic analysis (nLC-ESI-MS/MS). Proteins involved with the immune response process, antioxidant activity, and retina homeostasis were decreased or absent in SS samples from all groups (i.e., Antileukoproteinase, Lysozyme C, Alpha-2-macroglobulin-like protein 1, Heat shock proteins-70 kDa 1-like, 1A, 1B, 6, Heat shock-related 70 kDa protein 2, Putative Heat shock 70 kDa protein 7, Heat shock cognate 71 kDa). Additionally, proteins related to the carbohydrate metabolic process and glycolytic and glucose metabolic process were absent in SS, mainly from OP and OWP (i.e., Frutose-bisphosphate aldose A, Glusoce-6-phosphate isomerase, Pyruvate kinase). Saliva stimulation decreased important proteins involved with immune response and inflammation process in all groups. Unstimulated salivary samples seem to be the best choice for the proteomic approach in pregnant women.
PXD041819	37408259	Beyond Pattern Recognition: TLR2 Promotes Chemotaxis, Cell Adhesion, and Migration in THP-1 Cells. 	Beyond Pattern Recognition: TLR2 Promotes Chemotaxis, Cell Adhesion and Migration in THP-1 Cells	THP-1, Toll-like receptor 2, cell adhesion, cell migration, chemotaxis	The interaction between monocytes and endothelial cells in inflammation is central to chemoattraction, adhesion, and transendothelial migration. Key players, such as selectins and their ligands, integrins, and other adhesion molecules, and their functions in these processes are well studied. Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), expressed in monocytes, is critical for sensing invading pathogens and initiating a rapid and effective immune response. However, the extended role of TLR2 in monocyte adhesion and migration has only been partially elucidated. To address this question, we performed several functional cell-based assays using monocyte-like wild type (WT), TLR2 knock-out (KO), and TLR2 knock-in (KI) THP-1 cells. We found that TLR2 promotes the faster and stronger adhesion of monocytes to the endothelium and a more intense endothelial barrier disruption after endothelial activation. In addition, we performed quantitative mass spectrometry, STRING protein analysis, and RT-qPCR, which not only revealed the association of TLR2 with specific integrins but also uncovered novel proteins affected by TLR2. In conclusion, we show that unstimulated TLR2 influences cell adhesion, endothelial barrier disruption, migration, and actin polymerization.
PXD031336	37409306	Changes in Medicago truncatula seed proteome along the rehydration-dehydration cycle highlight new players in the genotoxic stress response. 	o Exploring dynamics of pre-germinative metabolism in Medicago truncatula seeds during priming, dry-back, and post-priming imbibition using proteomics	Medicago truncatula, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, seeds	Introduction: Several molecular aspects underlying the seed response to priming and the resulting vigor profile are still poorly understood. Mechanisms involved in genome maintenance deserve attention since the balance between stimulation of germination and DNA damage accumulation versus active repair is a key determinant for designing successful seed priming protocols. Methods: Changes in the Medicago truncatula seed proteome were investigated in this study, using discovery mass spectrometry and label-free quantification, along the rehydration-dehydration cycle of a standard vigorization treatment (hydropriming plus dry-back), and during post-priming imbibition. Resuts and discussion: From 2056 to 2190 proteins were detected in each pairwise comparison, among which six were differentially accumulated and 36 were detected only in one condition. The following proteins were selected for further investigation: MtDRP2B (DYNAMIN-RELATED PROTEIN), MtTRXm4 (THIOREDOXIN m4), and MtASPG1 (ASPARTIC PROTEASE IN GUARD CELL 1) showing changes in seeds under dehydration stress; MtITPA (INOSINE TRIPHOSPHATE PYROPHOSPHORYLASE), MtABA2 (ABSCISIC ACID DEFICIENT 2), MtRS2Z32 (SERINE/ARGININE-RICH SPLICING FACTOR RS2Z32), and MtAQR (RNA HELICASE AQUARIUS) that were differentially regulated during post-priming imbibition. Changes in the corresponding transcript levels were assessed by qRT-PCR. In animal cells, ITPA hydrolyses 2'-deoxyinosine triphosphate and other inosine nucleotides, preventing genotoxic damage. A proof of concept was performed by imbibing primed and control M. truncatula seeds in presence/absence of 20 mM 2'-deoxyinosine (dI). Results from comet assay highlighted the ability of primed seeds to cope with dI-induced genotoxic damage. The seed repair response was assessed by monitoring the expression profiles of MtAAG (ALKYL-ADENINE DNA GLYCOSILASE) and MtEndoV (ENDONUCLEASE V) genes that participate in the repair of the mismatched I:T pair in BER (base excision repair) and AER (alternative excision repair) pathways, respectively.
PXD038212	37409763	Sensitive N-Glycopeptide Profiling of Single and Rare Cells Using an Isobaric Labeling Strategy without Enrichment. 	Identification of N-Glycopeptides based on Glycocarrier Strategy	N-glycopeptides, regional heterogeneity, single cell	Single-cell omics is critical in revealing population heterogeneity, discovering unique features of individual cells, and identifying minority subpopulations of interest. As one of the major post-translational modifications, protein N-glycosylation plays crucial roles in various important biological processes. Elucidation of the variation in N-glycosylation patterns at single-cell resolution may largely facilitate the understanding of their key roles in the tumor microenvironment and immune therapy. However, comprehensive N-glycoproteome profiling for single cells has not been achieved due to the extremely limited sample amount and incompatibility with the available enrichment strategies. Here, we have developed an isobaric labeling-based carrier strategy for highly sensitive intact N-glycopeptide profiling for single cells or a small number of rare cells without enrichment. Isobaric labeling has unique multiplexing properties, by which the "total" signal from all channels triggers MS/MS fragmentation for N-glycopeptide identification, while the reporter ions provide quantitative information. In our strategy, a carrier channel using N-glycopeptides obtained from bulk-cell samples significantly improved the "total" signal of N-glycopeptides and, therefore, promoted the first quantitative analysis of averagely 260 N-glycopeptides from single HeLa cells. We further applied this strategy to study the regional heterogeneity of N-glycosylation of microglia in mouse brain and discovered region-specific N-glycoproteome patterns and cell subtypes. In conclusion, the glycocarrier strategy provides an attractive solution for sensitive and quantitative N-glycopeptide profiling of single/rare cells that cannot be enriched by traditional workflows.
PXD041879	37410391	Rapid, One-Step Sample Processing for Label-Free Single-Cell Proteomics. 	Rapid, One-step Sample Processing for Label-Free Single-Cell Proteomics	Sample Preparation, Single-Cell Proteomics	Sample preparation for single-cell proteomics is generally performed in a one-pot workflow with multiple dispensing and incubation steps. These hours-long processes can be labor intensive and lead to long sample-to-answer times. Here we report a sample preparation method that achieves cell lysis, protein denaturation, and digestion in 1 h using commercially available high-temperature-stabilized proteases with a single reagent dispensing step. Four different one-step reagent compositions were evaluated, and the mixture providing the highest proteome coverage was compared to the previously employed multistep workflow. The one-step preparation increases proteome coverage relative to the previous multistep workflow while minimizing labor input and the possibility of human error. We also compared sample recovery between previously used microfabricated glass nanowell chips and injection-molded polypropylene chips and found the polypropylene provided improved proteome coverage. Combined, the one-step sample preparation and the polypropylene substrates enabled the identification of an average of nearly 2400 proteins per cell using a standard data-dependent workflow with Orbitrap mass spectrometers. These advances greatly simplify sample preparation for single-cell proteomics and broaden accessibility with no compromise in terms of proteome coverage.
PXD034631	37410772	Changes in SUMO-modified proteins in Epstein-Barr virus infection identifies reciprocal regulation of TRIM24/28/33 complexes and the lytic switch BZLF1. 	Changes to SUMO-modified proteome and total cellular proteome during EBV ractivation in AGS gastric carcinoma cells	SUMO Epstein-Barr Virus EBVHuman Herpes Virus 4 HHV4	SUMO modifications regulate the function of many proteins and are important in controlling herpesvirus infections. We performed a site-specific proteomic analysis of SUMO1- and SUMO2-modified proteins in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent and lytic infection to identify proteins that change in SUMO modification status in response to EBV reactivation. Major changes were identified in all three components of the TRIM24/TRIM28/TRIM33 complex, with TRIM24 being rapidly degraded and TRIM33 being phosphorylated and SUMOylated in response to EBV lytic infection. Further experiments revealed TRIM24 and TRIM33 repress expression of the EBV BZLF1 lytic switch gene, suppressing EBV reactivation. However, BZLF1 was shown to interact with TRIM24 and TRIM33, resulting in disruption of TRIM24/TRIM28/TRIM33 complexes, degradation of TRIM24 and modification followed by degradation of TRIM33. Therefore, we have identified TRIM24 and TRIM33 as cellular antiviral defence factors against EBV lytic infection and established the mechanism by which BZLF1 disables this defence.
PXD039156	37410820	Structural basis of gRNA stabilization and mRNA recognition in trypanosomal RNA editing. 	Structural basis of gRNA stabilization and mRNA recognition in trypanosomal RNA editing	RECC, RESC, Trypanosoma brucei	In Trypanosoma brucei, the editosome, composed of RNA-editing substrate-binding complex (RESC) and RNA-editing catalytic complex (RECC), orchestrates guide RNA (gRNA)-programmed editing to recode cryptic mitochondrial transcripts into messenger RNAs (mRNAs). The mechanism of information transfer from gRNA to mRNA is unclear owing to a lack of high-resolution structures for these complexes. With cryo-electron microscopy and functional studies, we have captured gRNA-stabilizing RESC-A and gRNA-mRNA-binding RESC-B and RESC-C particles. RESC-A sequesters gRNA termini, thus promoting hairpin formation and blocking mRNA access. The conversion of RESC-A into RESC-B or -C unfolds gRNA and allows mRNA selection. The ensuing gRNA-mRNA duplex protrudes from RESC-B, likely exposing editing sites to RECC-catalyzed cleavage, uridine insertion or deletion, and ligation. Our work reveals a remodeling event facilitating gRNA-mRNA hybridization and assembly of a macromolecular substrate for the editosome's catalytic modality.
PXD040530	37411041	Transcriptomic and Proteomic Changes Driving Pulmonary Fibrosis Resolution in Young and Old Mice. 	Bleomycin model of fibrosis and resolution phase in old and young mice	Bleomycin, DIA, age, fibrosis, lung	Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice mimics major hallmarks of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Yet in this model, it spontaneously resolves over time. We studied molecular mechanisms of fibrosis resolution and lung repair, focusing on transcriptional and proteomic signatures and the effect of aging. Old mice showed incomplete and delayed lung function recovery 8 weeks after bleomycin instillation. This shift in structural and functional repair in old bleomycin-treated mice was reflected in a temporal shift in gene and protein expression. We reveal gene signatures and signaling pathways that underpin the lung repair process. Importantly, the downregulation of WNT, BMP, and TGFbeta antagonists Frzb, Sfrp1, Dkk2, Grem1, Fst, Fstl1, and Inhba correlated with lung function improvement. Those genes constitute a network with functions in stem cell pathways, wound, and pulmonary healing. We suggest that insufficient and delayed downregulation of those antagonists during fibrosis resolution in old mice explains the impaired regenerative outcome. Together, we identified signaling pathway molecules with relevance to lung regeneration that should be tested in-depth experimentally as potential therapeutic targets for pulmonary fibrosis.
PXD042269	37414249	Impact of Asialoglycoprotein Receptor and Mannose Receptor Deficiency on Murine Plasma N-glycome Profiles. 	Impact of asialoglycoprotein receptor and mannose receptor deficiency on murine plasma N-glycome profiles	Asialoglycoprotein receptor, Clearance, Glycomics, Mannose receptor	The asialoglycoprotein receptor (ASGPR) and the mannose receptor C-type 1 (MRC1) are well known for their selective recognition and clearance of circulating glycoproteins. Terminal galactose and N-Acetylgalactosamine are recognized by ASGPR, while terminal mannose, fucose, and N-Acetylglucosamine are recognized by MRC1. The effects of ASGPR and MRC1 deficiency on the N-glycosylation of individual circulating proteins have been studied. However, the impact on the homeostasis of the major plasma glycoproteins is debated and their glycosylation has not been mapped with high molecular resolution in this context. Therefore, we evaluated the total plasma N-glycome and plasma proteome of ASGR1 and MRC1 deficient mice. ASGPR deficiency resulted in an increase in O-acetylation of sialic acids accompanied by higher levels of apolipoprotein D, haptoglobin, and vitronectin. MRC1 deficiency decreased fucosylation without affecting the abundance of the major circulating glycoproteins. Our findings confirm that concentrations and N-glycosylation of the major plasma proteins are tightly controlled and further suggest that glycan-binding receptors have redundancy, allowing compensation for the loss of one major clearance receptor.
PXD043811	37415335	Modeling collagen fibril self-assembly from extracellular medium in embryonic tendon. 	Mouse embryonic tail tendon bundle time series	LCM-MS, embryonic, tendon	Collagen is a key structural component of multicellular organisms and is arranged in a highly organized manner. In structural tissues such as tendons, collagen forms bundles of parallel fibers between cells, which appear within a 24-h window between embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5) and E14.5 during mouse embryonic development. Current models assume that the organized structure of collagen requires direct cellular control, whereby cells actively lay down collagen fibrils from cell surfaces. However, such models appear incompatible with the time and length scales of fibril formation. We propose a phase-transition model to account for the rapid development of ordered fibrils in embryonic tendon, reducing reliance on active cellular processes. We develop phase-field crystal simulations of collagen fibrillogenesis in domains derived from electron micrographs of inter-cellular spaces in embryonic tendon and compare results qualitatively and quantitatively to observed patterns of fibril formation. To test the prediction of this phase-transition model that free protomeric collagen should exist in the inter-cellular spaces before the formation of observable fibrils, we use laser-capture microdissection, coupled with mass spectrometry, which demonstrates steadily increasing free collagen in inter-cellular spaces up to E13.5, followed by a rapid reduction of free collagen that coincides with the appearance of less-soluble collagen fibrils. The model and measurements together provide evidence for extracellular self-assembly of collagen fibrils in embryonic mouse tendon, supporting an additional mechanism for rapid collagen fibril formation during embryonic development.
PXD027151	37416723	Cyclic peptides target the aromatic cage of a PHD-finger reader domain to modulate epigenetic protein function. 	Plant homeodomain targeting cyclic peptides allosterically modulate KDM7 histone demethylase activity	KDM7, PTM, cyclic peptide	Plant homeodomain fingers (PHD-fingers) are a family of reader domains that can recruit epigenetic proteins to specific histone modification sites. Many PHD-fingers recognise methylated lysines on histone tails and play crucial roles in transcriptional regulation, with their dysregulation linked to various human diseases. Despite their biological importance, chemical inhibitors for targeting PHD-fingers are very limited. Here we report a potent and selective de novo cyclic peptide inhibitor (OC9) targeting the N(epsilon)-trimethyllysine-binding PHD-fingers of the KDM7 histone demethylases, developed using mRNA display. OC9 disrupts PHD-finger interaction with histone H3K4me3 by engaging the N(epsilon)-methyllysine-binding aromatic cage through a valine, revealing a new non-lysine recognition motif for the PHD-fingers that does not require cation-pi interaction. PHD-finger inhibition by OC9 impacted JmjC-domain mediated demethylase activity at H3K9me2, leading to inhibition of KDM7B (PHF8) but stimulation of KDM7A (KIAA1718), representing a new approach for selective allosteric modulation of demethylase activity. Chemoproteomic analysis showed selective engagement of OC9 with KDM7s in T cell lymphoblastic lymphoma SUP T1 cells. Our results highlight the utility of mRNA-display derived cyclic peptides for targeting challenging epigenetic reader proteins to probe their biology, and the broader potential of this approach for targeting protein-protein interactions.
PXD036119	37417362	Overexpression of SERPINA3 suppresses tumor progression by modulating SPOP/NF-kappaB in lung cancer. 	Proteomics analysis of differentially expressed proteins in lung cancer H157 cells after overexpression of AACT with dataindependent acquisition mass spectrometry	AACT, DIA, lung cancer, overexpression	The pathogenesis mechanism of lung cancer is very complex, with high incidence and mortality. Serpin family A member 3 (SERPINA3) expression levels were reduced in the sera of patients with lung cancer and may be a candidate diagnostic and prognostic survival biomarker in lung cancer, as previously reported. However, the detailed biological functions of SERPINA3 in the pathogenesis of lung cancer remain unknown. In the present study, it was aimed to explore the effects of SERPINA3 on the occurrence of lung cancer. SERPINA3 expression was assessed using bioinformatics database analysis and experimental detection. Then, the biological effects of SERPINA3 were investigated in a cell culture system and a xenograft model of human lung cancer. The potential regulatory mechanism of SERPINA3 in lung cancer was explored by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) detection and further validated by western blotting (WB). The results indicated that SERPINA3 expression levels were significantly downregulated in lung cancer tissues and cell lines. At the cellular level, it was revealed that overexpressed SERPINA3 inhibited cell growth, proliferation, migration and invasion and promoted the apoptosis of lung cancer cells. Moreover, overexpressed SERPINA3 enhanced the sensitivity of lung cancer cells to osimertinib. In vivo, a xenograft model of human lung cancer was established with BALB/c nude mice. After the injection of A549 cells, the tumor growth of the tumor-bearing mice in the SERPINA3-overexpressing group increased more slowly, and the tumor volume was smaller than that in the empty-vector group. Mechanistically, a total of 65 differentially expressed proteins were identified. It was found that the speckle-type POZ protein (SPOP) was significantly upregulated in SERPINA3-overexpressing H157 cells using DIA-MS detection and analysis. WB validation showed that SPOP expression increased, and NF-kappaB (NF-kappaB) p65 was inhibited in cell lines and tumor tissues of mice when SERPINA3 was overexpressed. The present findings suggest that SERPINA3 is involved in the development of lung cancer and has an antineoplastic role in lung cancer.
PXD042355	37417365	AZGP1 as a potential biomarker of IgA vasculitis with nephritis in a children-based urinary proteomics study by diaPASEF. 	Urinary proteomics of DiaPASEF was used to study IgA vasculitis with nephritis in children.	Urine proteome,IgA vasculitis with nephritis, diaPASEF	The present study aimed to screen for potential biomarkers in the urine of immunoglobulin A vasculitis with nephritis (IgAVN) using parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation combined with data-independent acquisition (diaPASEF) proteomic approach. Urine proteomes of eight children with IgAVN and eight healthy children were identified by diaPASEF and all differential proteins were analyzed by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Gene and Genome. Then, the specific biomarkers of urine samples from 10 children with IgAVN, 10 children with IgAV and 10 healthy children were verified by ELISA. The present study screened 254 differential proteins from the experiment, including 190 upregulated proteins and 64 downregulated proteins. The results of the ELISA showed that the concentration of urinary zinc-alpha-2-glycoprotein (AZGP1) in children with IgAVN was significantly higher compared with that in children with IgAV and healthy children. The present study provided the potential clinical application of AZGP1 as a helpful biomarker and a potential indicator for early diagnosis of the occurrence of IgAVN.
PXD037061	37418425	Integrative Proteogenomics Using ProteomeGenerator2. 	Integrative proteogenomics using ProteomeGenerator2	Proteogenomics, comprehensive proteomics, genomics, transcriptomics	Recent advances in nucleic acid sequencing now permit rapid and genome-scale analysis of genetic variation and transcription, enabling population-scale studies of human biology, disease, and diverse organisms. Likewise, advances in mass spectrometry proteomics now permit highly sensitive and accurate studies of protein expression at the whole proteome-scale. However, most proteomic studies rely on consensus databases to match spectra to peptide and protein sequences, and thus remain limited to the analysis of canonical protein sequences. Here, we develop ProteomeGenerator2 (PG2), based on the scalable and modular ProteomeGenerator framework. PG2 integrates genome and transcriptome sequencing to incorporate protein variants containing amino acid substitutions, insertions, and deletions, as well as noncanonical reading frames, exons, and other variants caused by genomic and transcriptomic variation. We benchmarked PG2 using synthetic data and genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic analysis of human leukemia cells. PG2 can be integrated with current and emerging sequencing technologies, assemblers, variant callers, and mass spectral analysis algorithms, and is available open-source from https://github.com/kentsisresearchgroup/ProteomeGenerator2.
PXD056996	37418532	Identifying high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma-specific extracellular vesicles by polyketone-coated nanowires. 	Proteomics of Extracellular Vesicles and tissue samples from High-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma	N-glycans, ascites, biomarker, extracellular vesicles, glycoproteins, glycoproteomics, high grade serous carcinoma	Cancer cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) have unique protein profiles, making them promising targets as disease biomarkers. High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) is the deadly subtype of epithelial ovarian cancer, and we aimed to identify HGSOC-specific membrane proteins. Small EVs (sEVs) and medium/large EVs (m/lEVs) from cell lines or patient serum and ascites were analyzed by LC-MS/MS, revealing that both EV subtypes had unique proteomic characteristics. Multivalidation steps identified FRalpha, Claudin-3, and TACSTD2 as HGSOC-specific sEV proteins, but m/lEV-associated candidates were not identified. In addition, for using a simple-to-use microfluidic device for EV isolation, polyketone-coated nanowires (pNWs) were developed, which efficiently purify sEVs from biofluids. Multiplexed array assays of sEVs isolated by pNW showed specific detectability in cancer patients and predicted clinical status. In summary, the HGSOC-specific marker detection by pNW are a promising platform as clinical biomarkers, and these insights provide detailed proteomic aspects of diverse EVs in HGSOC patients.
PXD038503	37418539	A Degron Blocking Strategy Towards Improved CRL4(CRBN) Recruiting PROTAC Selectivity. 	A degron blocking strategy towards improved CRBN recruiting PROTAC selectivity	PROTACs, cereblon	Small molecules inducing protein degradation are important pharmacological tools to interrogate complex biology and are rapidly translating into clinical agents. However, to fully realise the potential of these molecules, selectivity remains a limiting challenge. Herein, we addressed the issue of selectivity in the design of CRL4(CRBN) recruiting PROteolysis TArgeting Chimeras (PROTACs). Thalidomide derivatives used to generate CRL4(CRBN) recruiting PROTACs have well described intrinsic monovalent degradation profiles by inducing the recruitment of neo-substrates, such as GSPT1, Ikaros and Aiolos. We leveraged structural insights from known CRL4(CRBN) neo-substrates to attenuate and indeed remove this monovalent degradation function in well-known CRL4(CRBN) molecular glues degraders, namely CC-885 and Pomalidomide. We then applied these design principles on a previously published BRD9 PROTAC (dBRD9-A) and generated an analogue with improved selectivity profile. Finally, we implemented a computational modelling pipeline to show that our degron blocking design does not impact PROTAC-induced ternary complex formation. We believe that the tools and principles presented in this work will be valuable to support the development of targeted protein degradation.
PXD039789	37418548	Restoring tumor immunogenicity with dendritic cell reprogramming. 	Restoring Tumor Immunogenicity with Dendritic Cell Reprogramming	Cell reprogramming, antigen presentation, cancer antigens, immunopeptidomics	Decreased antigen presentation contributes to the ability of cancer cells to evade the immune system. We used the minimal gene regulatory network of type 1 conventional dendritic cells (cDC1) to reprogram cancer cells into professional antigen-presenting cells (tumor-APCs). Enforced expression of the transcription factors PU.1, IRF8, and BATF3 (PIB) was sufficient to induce the cDC1 phenotype in 36 cell lines derived from human and mouse hematological and solid tumors. Within 9 days of reprogramming, tumor-APCs acquired transcriptional and epigenetic programs associated with cDC1 cells. Reprogramming restored the expression of antigen presentation complexes and costimulatory molecules on the surfaces of tumor cells, allowing the presentation of endogenous tumor antigens on MHC-I and facilitating targeted killing by CD8(+) T cells. Functionally, tumor-APCs engulfed and processed proteins and dead cells, secreted inflammatory cytokines, and cross-presented antigens to naive CD8(+) T cells. Human primary tumor cells could also be reprogrammed to increase their capability to present antigen and to activate patient-specific tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. In addition to acquiring improved antigen presentation, tumor-APCs had impaired tumorigenicity in vitro and in vivo. Injection of in vitro generated melanoma-derived tumor-APCs into subcutaneous melanoma tumors delayed tumor growth and increased survival in mice. Antitumor immunity elicited by tumor-APCs was synergistic with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Our approach serves as a platform for the development of immunotherapies that endow cancer cells with the capability to process and present endogenous tumor antigens.
PXD033760	37418591	The autophagic protein FYCO1 controls TNFRSF10/TRAIL receptor induced apoptosis and is inactivated by CASP8 (caspase 8). 	The autophagic protein FYCO1 controls TRAIL receptor induced apoptosis and is inactivated by caspase 8	CCZ1, FYCO1, apoptosis, autophagy, caspase 8, death receptors, endosome maturation, inflammation, lysosomal degradation	Apoptosis is a tightly controlled cell death program executed by proteases, the so-called caspases. It plays an important role in tissue homeostasis and is often dysregulated in cancer. Here, we identified FYCO1, a protein that promotes microtubule plus end-directed transport of autophagic and endosomal vesicles as a molecular interaction partner of activated CASP8 (caspase 8). The absence of FYCO1 sensitized cells to basal and TNFSF10/TRAIL-induced apoptosis by receptor accumulation and stabilization of the Death Inducing Signaling Complex (DISC). Loss of FYCO1 resulted in impaired transport of TNFRSF10B/TRAIL-R2/DR5 (TNF receptor superfamily member 10b) to the lysosomes in TNFSF10/TRAIL-stimulated cells. More in detail, we show that FYCO1 interacted via its C-terminal GOLD domain with the CCZ1-MON1A complex, which is necessary for RAB7A activation and for the fusion of autophagosomal/endosomal vesicles with lysosomes. We demonstrated that FYCO1 is a novel and specific CASP8 substrate. The cleavage at aspartate 1306 resulted in the release of the C-terminal GOLD domain, inactivating FYCO1 function, and allowing for the progression of apoptosis. Furthermore, the lack of FYCO1 resulted in a stronger and prolonged formation of the TNFRSF1A/TNF-R1 signaling complex. Thus, FYCO1 limits the ligand-induced and steady-state signaling of TNFR-superfamily members, providing a control mechanism that fine-tunes both apoptotic and inflammatory answers.Abbreviations: AP: affinity purification; CHX: cycloheximide; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; DISC: death-inducing signaling complex; DR: death receptors; doxy: doxycycline; GEF: guanine nucleotide exchange factor; ind: inducible; KD: knockdown; KO: knockout; MS: mass spectrometry; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; siRNA: small interfering RNA; TIP: two-step co-immunoprecipitation; WB: western blot.
PXD042578	37419051	Proteomic research on new urinary biomarkers of renal disease in canine leishmaniosis: Survival and monitoring response to treatment. 	Human liver LC-MSMSProteomic research on new urinary biomarkers of renal disease in canine leishmaniosis: survival and monitoring response to treatment	Biomarker, Canine leishmaniosis, Liver, Miltefosinei.e. Human, Plasma, Survival, Urinary proteome	The objective of our study was to search for survival biomarkers (SB) and treatment response monitoring biomarkers (TRMB) in the urinary proteome of dogs with renal disease secondary to canine leishmaniosis (CanL), using UHPLC-MS/MS. The proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042578. Initially, a group of 12 dogs was evaluated and divided into survivors (SG; n = 6) and nonsurvivors (NSG; n = 6). A total of 972 proteins were obtained from the evaluated samples. Then, bioinformatic analysis reduced them to 6 proteins like potential SB increased in the NSG, specifically, Haemoglobin subunit Alpha 1, Complement Factor I, Complement C5, Fibrinogen beta chain (fragment), Peptidase S1 domain-containing protein, and Fibrinogen gamma chain. Afterwards, SG was used to search for TRMB, studying their urine at 0, 30, and 90 days, and 9 proteins that decreased after treatment were obtained: Apolipoprotein E, Cathepsin B, Cystatin B, Cystatin-C-like, Lysozyme, Monocyte differentiation CD14, Pancreatitis-associated precursor protein, Profilin, and Protein FAM3C. Finally, enrichment analysis provided information about the biological mechanisms in which these proteins are involved. In conclusion, this study provides 15 new candidate urinary biomarkers and an improved understanding of the pathogenesis of kidney disease in CanL.
PXD039626	37419112	Proximity-labeling chemoproteomics defines the subcellular cysteinome and inflammation-responsive mitochondrial redoxome. 	Proximity-labeling chemoproteomics defines the subcellular cysteinome and inflammation-responsive mitochondrial redoxome	chemoproteomics, cysteine, proximity labeling, redox sensitive	Proteinaceous cysteines function as essential sensors of cellular redox state. Consequently, defining the cysteine redoxome is a key challenge for functional proteomic studies. While proteome-wide inventories of cysteine oxidation state are readily achieved using established, widely adopted proteomic methods such as OxICAT, Biotin Switch, and SP3-Rox, these methods typically assay bulk proteomes and therefore fail to capture protein localization-dependent oxidative modifications. Here we establish the local cysteine capture (Cys-LoC) and local cysteine oxidation (Cys-LOx) methods, which together yield compartment-specific cysteine capture and quantitation of cysteine oxidation state. Benchmarking of the Cys-LoC method across a panel of subcellular compartments revealed more than 3,500 cysteines not previously captured by whole-cell proteomic analysis. Application of the Cys-LOx method to LPS-stimulated immortalized murine bone marrow-derived macrophages (iBMDM), revealed previously unidentified, mitochondrially localized cysteine oxidative modifications upon pro-inflammatory activation, including those associated with oxidative mitochondrial metabolism.
PXD042201	37419385	Different Mouse Models of Nemaline Myopathy Harboring Acta1 Mutations Display Differing Abnormalities Related to Mitochondrial Biology. 	Identifying secondary processes implicated in nemaline myopathy pathophysiology	Acta1, Neb cKO, nemaline myopathy	ACTA1 encodes skeletal muscle-specific alpha-actin, which polymerizes to form the thin filament of the sarcomere. Mutations in ACTA1 are responsible for approximately 30% of nemaline myopathy (NM) cases. Previous studies of weakness in NM have focused on muscle structure and contractility, but genetic issues alone do not explain the phenotypic heterogeneity observed in patients with NM or NM mouse models. To identify additional biological processes related to NM phenotypic severity, proteomic analysis was performed using muscle protein isolates from wild-type mice in comparison to moderately affected knock-in (KI) Acta1(H40Y) and the minimally affected transgenic (Tg) ACTA1(D286G) NM mice. This analysis revealed abnormalities in mitochondrial function and stress-related pathways in both mouse models, supporting an in-depth assessment of mitochondrial biology. Interestingly, evaluating each model in comparison to its wild-type counterpart identified different degrees of mitochondrial abnormality that correlated well with the phenotypic severity of the mouse model. Muscle histology, mitochondrial respiration, electron transport chain function, and mitochondrial transmembrane potential were all normal or minimally affected in the TgACTA1(D286G) mouse model. In contrast, the more severely affected KI.Acta1(H40Y) mice displayed significant abnormalities in relation to muscle histology, mitochondrial respirometry, ATP, ADP, and phosphate content, and mitochondrial transmembrane potential. These findings suggest that abnormal energy metabolism is related to symptomatic severity in NM and may constitute a contributor to phenotypic variability and a novel treatment target.
PXD039049	37419978	Complement is activated by elevated IgG3 hexameric platforms and deposits C4b onto distinct antibody domains. 	Complement is activated by elevated IgG3 hexameric platforms and deposits C4b onto distinct antibody domains	IgG, IgG3, cryoEM	IgG3 is unique among the IgG subclasses due to its extended hinge, allotypic diversity and enhanced effector functions, including highly efficient pathogen neutralisation and complement activation. It is also underrepresented as an immunotherapeutic candidate, partly due to a lack of structural information. Here, we use cryoEM to solve structures of antigen-bound IgG3 alone and in complex with complement components. These structures reveal a propensity for IgG3-Fab clustering, which is possible due to the IgG3-specific flexible upper hinge region and may maximise pathogen neutralisation by forming high-density antibody arrays. IgG3 forms elevated hexameric Fc platforms that extend above the protein corona to maximise binding to receptors and the complement C1 complex, which here adopts a unique protease conformation that may precede C1 activation. Mass spectrometry reveals that C1 deposits C4b directly onto specific IgG3 residues proximal to the Fab domains. Structural analysis shows this to be caused by the height of the C1-IgG3 complex. Together, these data provide structural insights into the role of the unique IgG3 extended hinge, which will aid the development and design of upcoming immunotherapeutics based on IgG3.
PXD039573	37422599	Differential contribution of nitrifying prokaryotes to groundwater nitrification. 	Differential contribution of nitrifying prokaryotes to nitrification in groundwater	Ammonia-oxidizing bacteria, Groundwater, Metaproteomics, Nitrification, Prokaryotes	The ecophysiology of complete ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (CMX) of the genus Nitrospira and their widespread occurrence in groundwater suggests that CMX bacteria have a competitive advantage over ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA) in these environments. However, the specific contribution of their activity to nitrification processes has remained unclear. We aimed to disentangle the contribution of CMX, AOA and AOB to nitrification and to identify the environmental drivers of their niche differentiation at different levels of ammonium and oxygen in oligotrophic carbonate rock aquifers. CMX ammonia monooxygenase sub-unit A (amoA) genes accounted on average for 16 to 75% of the total groundwater amoA genes detected. Nitrification rates were positively correlated to CMX clade A associated phylotypes and AOB affiliated with Nitrosomonas ureae. Short-term incubations amended with the nitrification inhibitors allylthiourea and chlorate suggested that AOB contributed a large fraction to overall ammonia oxidation, while metaproteomics analysis confirmed an active role of CMX in both ammonia and nitrite oxidation. Ecophysiological niche differentiation of CMX clades A and B, AOB and AOA was linked to their requirements for ammonium, oxygen tolerance, and metabolic versatility. Our results demonstrate that despite numerical predominance of CMX, the first step of nitrification in oligotrophic groundwater appears to be primarily governed by AOB. Higher growth yields at lower ammonia turnover rates and energy derived from nitrite oxidation most likely enable CMX to maintain consistently high populations.
PXD036223	37422628	Combined proteomics and CRISPR-Cas9 screens in PDX identify ADAM10 as essential for leukemia in vivo. 	Combined proteomics and CRISPR-Cas9 screens in PDX identify ADAM10 as essential for leukemia in vivo	ADAM10, CRISPR, Leukemia, Leukemia Stem Cell, dia PASEF	BACKGROUND: Acute leukemias represent deadly malignancies that require better treatment. As a challenge, treatment is counteracted by a microenvironment protecting dormant leukemia stem cells. METHODS: To identify responsible surface proteins, we performed deep proteome profiling on minute numbers of dormant patient-derived xenograft (PDX) leukemia stem cells isolated from mice. Candidates were functionally screened by establishing a comprehensive CRISPR-Cas9 pipeline in PDX models in vivo. RESULTS: A disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain-containing protein 10 (ADAM10) was identified as an essential vulnerability required for the survival and growth of different types of acute leukemias in vivo, and reconstitution assays in PDX models confirmed the relevance of its sheddase activity. Of translational importance, molecular or pharmacological targeting of ADAM10 reduced PDX leukemia burden, cell homing to the murine bone marrow and stem cell frequency, and increased leukemia response to conventional chemotherapy in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: These findings identify ADAM10 as an attractive therapeutic target for the future treatment of acute leukemias.
PXD042762	37423302	NPC1 plays a role in the trafficking of specific cargo to melanosomes. 	Proteomic analysis of MNT-1 cells deficient in NPC1 protein	MNT-1, NPC1 protein, melanogenesis	Niemann-Pick type C1 (NPC1) protein is a multimembrane spanning protein of the lysosome limiting membrane that facilitates intracellular cholesterol and sphingolipid transport. Loss-of-function mutations in the NPC1 protein cause Niemann-Pick disease type C1, a lysosomal storage disorder characterized by the accumulation of cholesterol and sphingolipids within lysosomes. To investigate whether the NPC1 protein could also play a role in the maturation of the endolysosomal pathway, here, we have investigated its role in a lysosome-related organelle, the melanosome. Using a NPC1-KO melanoma cell model, we found that the cellular phenotype of Niemann-Pick disease type C1 is associated with a decreased pigmentation accompanied by low expression of the melanogenic enzyme tyrosinase. We propose that the defective processing and localization of tyrosinase, occurring in the absence of NPC1, is a major determinant of the pigmentation impairment in NPC1-KO cells. Along with tyrosinase, two other pigmentation genes, tyrosinase-related protein 1 and Dopachrome-tautomerase have lower protein levels in NPC1 deficient cells. In contrast with the decrease in pigmentation-related protein expression, we also found a significant intracellular accumulation of mature PMEL17, the structural protein of melanosomes. As opposed to the normal dendritic localization of melanosomes, the disruption of melanosome matrix generation in NPC1 deficient cells causes an accumulation of immature melanosomes adjacent to the plasma membrane. Together with the melanosomal localization of NPC1 in WT cells, these findings suggest that NPC1 is directly involved in tyrosinase transport from the trans-Golgi network to melanosomes and melanosome maturation, indicating a novel function for NPC1.
PXD043251	37423391	Nipsnap1-A regulatory factor required for long-term maintenance of non-shivering thermogenesis. 	Isolated Mitochondria from Cold and TN Mice LC MS/MS	Cold, Mitochondria, Nipsnap1, Thermoneutrality	OBJECTIVE: The activation of non-shivering thermogenesis (NST) has strong potential to combat obesity and metabolic disease. The activation of NST however is extremely temporal and the mechanisms surrounding how the benefits of NST are sustained once fully activated, remain unexplored. The objective of this study is to investigate the role of 4-Nitrophenylphosphatase Domain and Non-Neuronal SNAP25-Like 1 (Nipsnap1) in NST maintenance, which is a critical regulator identified in this study. METHODS: The expression of Nipsnap1 was profiled by immunoblotting and RT-qPCR. We generated Nipsnap1 knockout mice (N1-KO) and investigated the function of Nipsnap1 in NST maintenance and whole-body metabolism using whole body respirometry analyses. We evaluate the metabolic regulatory role of Nipsnap1 using cellular and mitochondrial respiration assay. RESULTS: Here, we show Nipsnap1 as a critical regulator of long-term thermogenic maintenance in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Nipsnap1 localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and increases its transcript and protein levels in response to both chronic cold and beta3 adrenergic signaling. We demonstrated that these mice are unable to sustain activated energy expenditure and have significantly lower body temperature in the face of an extended cold challenge. Furthermore, when mice are exposed to the pharmacological beta3 agonist CL 316, 243, the N1-KO mice exhibit significant hyperphagia and altered energy balance. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that Nipsnap1 integrates with lipid metabolism and BAT-specific ablation of Nipsnap1 leads to severe defects in beta-oxidation capacity when exposed to a cold environmental challenge. CONCLUSION: Our findings identify Nipsnap1 as a potent regulator of long-term NST maintenance in BAT.
PXD041539	37426235	TMT Labeling Reveals the Effects of Exercises on the Proteomic Characteristics of the Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue of Growing High-Fat-Diet-Fed Rats. 	The effects of exercises on proteomic characteristics of subcutaneous adipose tissue of growing high-fat diet-fed rats	Subcutaneous adipose tissue, exercise	Aim: Growing period is an important period for fat remodeling. High-fat diet and exercise are reasons for adipose tissue (AT) remodeling, but existing evidence is not enough. Therefore, the effects of moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) and high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on the proteomic characteristics of the subcutaneous AT of growing rats on normal diet or high-fat diet (HFD) were determined. Methods: Four-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 48) were subdivided into six groups: normal diet control group, normal diet-MICT group, normal diet-HIIT group, HFD control group, HFD-MICT group, and HFD-HIIT group. Rats in the training group ran on a treadmill 5 days a week for 8 weeks (MICT: 50 min at 60-70% VO2max intensity; HIIT: 7 min of warm-up and recovery at 70% VO2max intensity, 6 sets of 3 min of 30% VO2max followed by 3 min 90% VO2max). Following physical assessment, inguinal subcutaneous adipose tissue (sWAT) was collected for proteome analysis using tandem mass tag labeling. Results: MICT and HIIT attenuated body fat mass and lean body mass but did not affect weight gain. Proteomics revealed the impact of exercise on ribosome, spliceosome, and the pentose phosphate pathway. However, the effect was reversed on HFD and normal diet. The differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) affected by MICT were related to oxygen transport, ribosome, and spliceosome. In comparison, the DEPs affected by HIIT were related to oxygen transport, mitochondrial electron transport, and mitochondrion protein. In HFD, HIIT was more likely to cause changes in immune proteins than MICT. However, exercise did not seem to reverse the protein effects of HFD. Conclusion: The exercise stress response in the growing period was stronger but increased the energy metabolism and metabolism. MICT and HIIT can reduce fat, increase muscle percentage, and improve maximum oxygen uptake in rats fed with HFD. However, in rats with normal diet, MICT and HIIT triggered more immune responses of sWAT, especially HIIT. In addition, spliceosomes may be the key factors in AT remodeling triggered by exercise and diet.
PXD043217	37427787	Nt-acetylation-independent turnover of SQUALENE EPOXIDASE 1 by Arabidopsis DOA10-like E3 ligases. 	Global and protein-specific analysis reveals Nt-acetylation-independent turnover of SQE1 by Arabidopsis DOA10-like E3 ligases	Ac/N-degron pathway, Ac/N-recognin, ERAD, N-terminomics, Nt-acetylation, proteolysis, sterol biosynthesis	The acetylation-dependent (Ac/)N-degron pathway degrades proteins through recognition of their acetylated N-termini (Nt) by E3 ligases called Ac/N-recognins. To date, specific Ac/N-recognins have not been defined in plants. Here we used molecular, genetic, and multiomics approaches to characterize potential roles for Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) DEGRADATION OF ALPHA2 10 (DOA10)-like E3 ligases in the Nt-acetylation-(NTA)-dependent turnover of proteins at global- and protein-specific scales. Arabidopsis has two endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-localized DOA10-like proteins. AtDOA10A, but not the Brassicaceae-specific AtDOA10B, can compensate for loss of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) ScDOA10 function. Transcriptome and Nt-acetylome profiling of an Atdoa10a/b RNAi mutant revealed no obvious differences in the global NTA profile compared to wild type, suggesting that AtDOA10s do not regulate the bulk turnover of NTA substrates. Using protein steady-state and cycloheximide-chase degradation assays in yeast and Arabidopsis, we showed that turnover of ER-localized SQUALENE EPOXIDASE 1 (AtSQE1), a critical sterol biosynthesis enzyme, is mediated by AtDOA10s. Degradation of AtSQE1 in planta did not depend on NTA, but Nt-acetyltransferases indirectly impacted its turnover in yeast, indicating kingdom-specific differences in NTA and cellular proteostasis. Our work suggests that, in contrast to yeast and mammals, targeting of Nt-acetylated proteins is not a major function of DOA10-like E3 ligases in Arabidopsis and provides further insight into plant ERAD and the conservation of regulatory mechanisms controlling sterol biosynthesis in eukaryotes.
PXD039533	37428903	Systemic deletion of DMD exon 51 rescues clinically severe Duchenne muscular dystrophy in a pig model lacking DMD exon 52. 	Systemic deletion of DMD exon 51 rescues clinically severe Duchenne muscular dystrophy in a pig model lacking DMD exon 52	Becker muscular dystrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, pig model	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal X-linked disease caused by mutations in the DMD gene, leading to complete absence of dystrophin and progressive degeneration of skeletal musculature and myocardium. In DMD patients and in a corresponding pig model with a deletion of DMD exon 52 (DMDDelta52), expression of an internally shortened dystrophin can be achieved by skipping of DMD exon 51 to reframe the transcript. To predict the best possible outcome of this strategy, we generated DMDDelta51-52 pigs, additionally representing a model for Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD). DMDDelta51-52 skeletal muscle and myocardium samples stained positive for dystrophin and did not show the characteristic dystrophic alterations observed in DMDDelta52 pigs. Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of dystrophin in the skeletal muscle and myocardium of DMDDelta51-52 pigs and its absence in DMDDelta52 pigs. The proteome profile of skeletal muscle, which showed a large number of abundance alterations in DMDDelta52 vs. wild-type (WT) samples, was normalized in DMDDelta51-52 samples. Cardiac function at age 3.5 mo was significantly reduced in DMDDelta52 pigs (mean left ventricular ejection fraction 58.8% vs. 70.3% in WT) but completely rescued in DMDDelta51-52 pigs (72.3%), in line with normalization of the myocardial proteome profile. Our findings indicate that ubiquitous deletion of DMD exon 51 in DMDDelta52 pigs largely rescues the rapidly progressing, severe muscular dystrophy and the reduced cardiac function of this model. Long-term follow-up studies of DMDDelta51-52 pigs will show if they develop symptoms of the milder BMD.
PXD037610	37428925	Horizontal gene transfer underlies the painful stings of asp caterpillars (Lepidoptera: Megalopygidae). 	Asp caterpillar (Megalopyge ssp.) venom proteomes	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Lepidoptera, Megalopyge, Megalopygidae, ProteomeXchange project tag: Toxicoproteomics (B/D-HPP), venom	Larvae of the genus Megalopyge (Lepidoptera: Zygaenoidea: Megalopygidae), known as asp or puss caterpillars, produce defensive venoms that cause severe pain. Here, we present the anatomy, chemistry, and mode of action of the venom systems of caterpillars of two megalopygid species, the Southern flannel moth Megalopyge opercularis and the black-waved flannel moth Megalopyge crispata. We show that megalopygid venom is produced in secretory cells that lie beneath the cuticle and are connected to the venom spines by canals. Megalopygid venoms consist of large aerolysin-like pore-forming toxins, which we have named megalysins, and a small number of peptides. The venom system differs markedly from those of previously studied venomous zygaenoids of the family Limacodidae, suggestive of an independent origin. Megalopygid venom potently activates mammalian sensory neurons via membrane permeabilization and induces sustained spontaneous pain behavior and paw swelling in mice. These bioactivities are ablated by treatment with heat, organic solvents, or proteases, indicating that they are mediated by larger proteins such as the megalysins. We show that the megalysins were recruited as venom toxins in the Megalopygidae following horizontal transfer of genes from bacteria to the ancestors of ditrysian Lepidoptera. Megalopygids have recruited aerolysin-like proteins as venom toxins convergently with centipedes, cnidarians, and fish. This study highlights the role of horizontal gene transfer in venom evolution.
PXD037869	37429858	Lysine methylation promotes NFAT5 activation and determines temozolomide efficacy in glioblastoma. 	Lysine methylation promotes NFAT5 activation upon EGFR activation  and predicts response to temozolomide	Drug resistance, EZH2, Gene regulation, Lysine methylation, NFAT5	Temozolomide (TMZ) therapy offers minimal clinical benefits in patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) with high EGFR activity, underscoring the need for effective combination therapy. Here, we show that tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein (NFAT5) lysine methylation, is a determinant of TMZ response. Mechanistically, EGFR activation induces phosphorylated EZH2 (Ser21) binding and triggers NFAT5 methylation at K668. Methylation prevents NFAT5 cytoplasm interaction with E3 ligase TRAF6, thus blocks NFAT5 lysosomal degradation and cytosol localization restriction, which was mediated by TRAF6 induced K63-linked ubiquitination, resulting in NFAT5 protein stabilization, nuclear accumulation and activation. Methylated NFAT5 leads to the upregulation of MGMT, a transcriptional target of NFAT5, which is responsible for unfavorable TMZ response. Inhibition of NFAT5 K668 methylation improved TMZ efficacy in orthotopic xenografts and patient-derived xenografts (PDX) models. Notably, NFAT5 K668 methylation levels are elevated in TMZ-refractory specimens and confer poor prognosis. Our findings suggest targeting NFAT5 methylation is a promising therapeutic strategy to improve TMZ response in tumors with EGFR activation.
PXD042802	37429889	Macrophage-based therapy for intervertebral disc herniation: preclinical proof-of-concept. 	Rat plasma liquid chromatography MS/MS	LC-M/MS, Plasma, Rat	Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration and herniation is a leading cause of disability globally and a large unmet clinical need. No efficient non-surgical therapy is available, and there is an urgency for minimally invasive therapies capable of restoring tissue function. IVD spontaneous hernia regression following conservative treatment is a clinically relevant phenomenon that has been linked to an inflammatory response. This study establishes the central role of macrophages in IVD spontaneous hernia regression and provides the first preclinical demonstration of a macrophage-based therapy for IVD herniation. A rat model of IVD herniation was used to test complementary experimental setups: (1) macrophage systemic depletion via intravenous administration of clodronate liposomes (Group CLP2w: depletion between 0 and 2 weeks post-lesion; Group CLP6w: depletion between 2 and 6 weeks post-lesion), and (2) administration of bone marrow-derived macrophages into the herniated IVD, 2 weeks post-lesion (Group Mac6w). Herniated animals without treatment were used as controls. The herniated area was quantified by histology in consecutive proteoglycan/collagen IVD sections at 2 and 6 weeks post-lesion. Clodronate-mediated macrophage systemic depletion was confirmed by flow cytometry and resulted in increased hernia sizes. Bone marrow-derived macrophages were successfully administered into rat IVD hernias resulting in a 44% decrease in hernia size. No relevant systemic immune reaction was identified by flow cytometry, cytokine, or proteomic analysis. Furthermore, a possible mechanism for macrophage-induced hernia regression and tissue repair was unveiled through IL4, IL17a, IL18, LIX, and RANTES increase. This study represents the first preclinical proof-of-concept of macrophage-based immunotherapy for IVD herniation.
PXD032363	37430025	Targeting the TCA cycle can ameliorate widespread axonal energy deficiency in neuroinflammatory lesions. 	Mitoproteomics of neuronal mitochondria of EAE mice	IDH3, Mitochondria, Neurons	Inflammation in the central nervous system can impair the function of neuronal mitochondria and contributes to axon degeneration in the common neuroinflammatory disease multiple sclerosis (MS). Here we combine cell-type-specific mitochondrial proteomics with in vivo biosensor imaging to dissect how inflammation alters the molecular composition and functional capacity of neuronal mitochondria. We show that neuroinflammatory lesions in the mouse spinal cord cause widespread and persisting axonal ATP deficiency, which precedes mitochondrial oxidation and calcium overload. This axonal energy deficiency is associated with impaired electron transport chain function, but also an upstream imbalance of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle enzymes, with several, including key rate-limiting, enzymes being depleted in neuronal mitochondria in experimental models and in MS lesions. Notably, viral overexpression of individual TCA enzymes can ameliorate the axonal energy deficits in neuroinflammatory lesions, suggesting that TCA cycle dysfunction in MS may be amendable to therapy.
PXD040160	37430325	Neutrophil-derived reactive agents induce a transient SpeB negative phenotype in Streptococcus pyogenes. 	Neutrophil-derived reactive agents induce a transient SpeB negative phenotype in Streptococcus pyogenes	SpeB, Streptococcus pyogenes, necrotizing soft tissue infections, neutrophils	BACKGROUND: Streptococcus pyogenes (group A streptococci; GAS) is the main causative pathogen of monomicrobial necrotizing soft tissue infections (NSTIs). To resist immuno-clearance, GAS adapt their genetic information and/or phenotype to the surrounding environment. Hyper-virulent streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin B (SpeB) negative variants caused by covRS mutations are enriched during infection. A key driving force for this process is the bacterial Sda1 DNase. METHODS: Bacterial infiltration, immune cell influx, tissue necrosis and inflammation in patient's biopsies were determined using immunohistochemistry. SpeB secretion and activity by GAS post infections or challenges with reactive agents were determined via Western blot or casein agar and proteolytic activity assays, respectively. Proteome of GAS single colonies and neutrophil secretome were profiled, using mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Here, we identify another strategy resulting in SpeB-negative variants, namely reversible abrogation of SpeB secretion triggered by neutrophil effector molecules. Analysis of NSTI patient tissue biopsies revealed that tissue inflammation, neutrophil influx, and degranulation positively correlate with increasing frequency of SpeB-negative GAS clones. Using single colony proteomics, we show that GAS isolated directly from tissue express but do not secrete SpeB. Once the tissue pressure is lifted, GAS regain SpeB secreting function. Neutrophils were identified as the main immune cells responsible for the observed phenotype. Subsequent analyses identified hydrogen peroxide and hypochlorous acid as reactive agents driving this phenotypic GAS adaptation to the tissue environment. SpeB-negative GAS show improved survival within neutrophils and induce increased degranulation. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide new information about GAS fitness and heterogeneity in the soft tissue milieu and provide new potential targets for therapeutic intervention in NSTIs.
PXD036190	37431278	Click-iG: Simultaneous Enrichment and Profiling of Intact N-linked, O-GalNAc, and O-GlcNAcylated Glycopeptides. 	HeLa, HEK293T and mouse lung, heart and spleen LC-MS/MS	HEK293T, HeLa, heart, mouse lung, spleen	Proteins are ubiquitously modified with glycans of varied chemical structures through distinct glycosidic linkages, making the landscape of protein glycosylation challenging to map. Profiling of intact glycopeptides with mass spectrometry (MS) has recently emerged as a powerful tool for revealing matched information of the glycosylation sites and attached glycans (i.e., intact glycosites), but is largely limited to individual glycosylation types. Herein, we describe Click-iG, which integrates metabolic labeling of glycans with clickable unnatural sugars, an optimized MS method, and a tailored version of pGlyco3 software to enable simultaneous enrichment and profiling of three types of intact glycopeptides: N-linked, mucin-type O-linked, and O-GlcNAcylated glycopeptides. We demonstrate the utility of Click-iG by the identification of thousands of intact glycosites in cell lines and living mice. From the mouse lung, heart, and spleen, a total of 2053 intact N-glycosites, 262 intact O-GalNAc glycosites, and 1947 O-GlcNAcylation sites were identified. Click-iG-enabled comprehensive coverage of the protein glycosylation landscape lays the foundation for interrogating crosstalk between different glycosylation pathways.
PXD041795	37431963	Loss of TDP-43 oligomerization or RNA binding elicits distinct aggregation patterns. 	LC-MS/MS of HEK-293 inducibly expressing TDP-43 protein (WT and 3 non-functional mutants)	TDP-43, kidney	Aggregation of the RNA-binding protein TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is the key neuropathological feature of neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). In physiological conditions, TDP-43 is predominantly nuclear, forms oligomers, and is contained in biomolecular condensates assembled by liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS). In disease, TDP-43 forms cytoplasmic or intranuclear inclusions. How TDP-43 transitions from physiological to pathological states remains poorly understood. Using a variety of cellular systems to express structure-based TDP-43 variants, including human neurons and cell lines with near-physiological expression levels, we show that oligomerization and RNA binding govern TDP-43 stability, splicing functionality, LLPS, and subcellular localization. Importantly, our data reveal that TDP-43 oligomerization is modulated by RNA binding. By mimicking the impaired proteasomal activity observed in ALS/FTLD patients, we found that monomeric TDP-43 forms inclusions in the cytoplasm, whereas its RNA binding-deficient counterpart aggregated in the nucleus. These differentially localized aggregates emerged via distinct pathways: LLPS-driven aggregation in the nucleus and aggresome-dependent inclusion formation in the cytoplasm. Therefore, our work unravels the origins of heterogeneous pathological species reminiscent of those occurring in TDP-43 proteinopathy patients.
PXD038659	37432117	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Cyanide and Mercury Detoxification by Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344. 	Proteomic response of P. pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344 to mercury in presence of cyanideProteomic response of P. pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344 to mercury in presence of cyanide	Bioremediation, DIA-PASEF, mercury, quantitative proteomics	The cyanide-degrading bacterium Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344 uses cyanide and different metal-cyanide complexes as the sole nitrogen source. Under cyanotrophic conditions, this strain was able to grow with up to 100 muM mercury, which was accumulated intracellularly. A quantitative proteomic analysis by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) has been applied to unravel the molecular basis of the detoxification of both cyanide and mercury by the strain CECT 5344, highlighting the relevance of the cyanide-insensitive alternative oxidase CioAB and the nitrilase NitC in the tolerance and assimilation of cyanide, independently of the presence or absence of mercury. Proteins overrepresented in the presence of cyanide and mercury included mercury transporters, mercuric reductase MerA, transcriptional regulator MerD, arsenate reductase and arsenical resistance proteins, thioredoxin reductase, glutathione S-transferase, proteins related to aliphatic sulfonates metabolism and sulfate transport, hemin import transporter, and phosphate starvation induced protein PhoH, among others. A transcriptional study revealed that from the six putative merR genes present in the genome of the strain CECT 5344 that could be involved in the regulation of mercury resistance/detoxification, only the merR2 gene was significantly induced by mercury under cyanotrophic conditions. A bioinformatic analysis allowed the identification of putative MerR2 binding sites in the promoter regions of the regulatory genes merR5, merR6, arsR, and phoR, and also upstream from the structural genes encoding glutathione S-transferase (fosA and yghU), dithiol oxidoreductase (dsbA), metal resistance chaperone (cpxP), and amino acid/peptide extruder involved in quorum sensing (virD), among others. IMPORTANCE Cyanide, mercury, and arsenic are considered very toxic chemicals that are present in nature as cocontaminants in the liquid residues generated by different industrial activities like mining. Considering the huge amounts of toxic cyanide- and mercury-containing wastes generated at a large scale and the high biotechnological potential of P. pseudoalcaligenes CECT 5344 in the detoxification of cyanide present in these industrial wastes, in this work, proteomic, transcriptional, and bioinformatic approaches were used to characterize the molecular response of this bacterium to cyanide and mercury, highlighting the mechanisms involved in the simultaneous detoxification of both compounds. The results generated could be applied for developing bioremediation strategies to detoxify wastes cocontaminated with cyanide, mercury, and arsenic, such as those generated at a large scale in the mining industry.
PXD039415	37433004	Skewing cPLA2alpha activity toward oxoeicosanoid production promotes neutrophil N2 polarization, wound healing, and the response to sepsis. 	Murine BM neutrophil WT vs KI experiment 1	Neutrophil, cPLA2alpha	Uncontrolled inflammation is linked to poor outcomes in sepsis and wound healing, both of which proceed through distinct inflammatory and resolution phases. Eicosanoids are a class of bioactive lipids that recruit neutrophils and other innate immune cells. The interaction of ceramide 1-phosphate (C1P) with the eicosanoid biosynthetic enzyme cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) reduces the production of a subtype of eicosanoids called oxoeicosanoids. We investigated the effect of shifting the balance in eicosanoid biosynthesis on neutrophil polarization and function. Knockin mice expressing a cPLA2 mutant lacking the C1P binding site (cPLA2alpha(KI/KI) mice) showed enhanced and sustained neutrophil infiltration into wounds and the peritoneum during the inflammatory phase of wound healing and sepsis, respectively. The mice exhibited improved wound healing and reduced susceptibility to sepsis, which was associated with an increase in anti-inflammatory N2-type neutrophils demonstrating proresolution behaviors and a decrease in proinflammatory N1-type neutrophils. The N2 polarization of cPLA2alpha(KI/KI) neutrophils resulted from increased oxoeicosanoid biosynthesis and autocrine signaling through the oxoeicosanoid receptor OXER1 and partially depended on OXER1-dependent inhibition of the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). Thus, C1P binding to cPLA2alpha suppresses neutrophil N2 polarization, thereby impairing wound healing and the response to sepsis.
PXD034375	37433770	Hypoxia-reprogramed megamitochondrion contacts and engulfs lysosome to mediate mitochondrial self-digestion. 	Raw data for mass spectrometry analysis of the effects of hypoxia on mitochondrial protein composition	HeLa cell, mitochondria fraction	Mitochondria are the key organelles for sensing oxygen, which is consumed by oxidative phosphorylation to generate ATP. Lysosomes contain hydrolytic enzymes that degrade misfolded proteins and damaged organelles to maintain cellular homeostasis. Mitochondria physically and functionally interact with lysosomes to regulate cellular metabolism. However, the mode and biological functions of mitochondria-lysosome communication remain largely unknown. Here, we show that hypoxia remodels normal tubular mitochondria into megamitochondria by inducing broad inter-mitochondria contacts and subsequent fusion. Importantly, under hypoxia, mitochondria-lysosome contacts are promoted, and certain lysosomes are engulfed by megamitochondria, in a process we term megamitochondria engulfing lysosome (MMEL). Both megamitochondria and mature lysosomes are required for MMEL. Moreover, the STX17-SNAP29-VAMP7 complex contributes to mitochondria-lysosome contacts and MMEL under hypoxia. Intriguingly, MMEL mediates a mode of mitochondrial degradation, which we termed mitochondrial self-digestion (MSD). Moreover, MSD increases mitochondrial ROS production. Our results reveal a mode of crosstalk between mitochondria and lysosomes and uncover an additional pathway for mitochondrial degradation.
PXD038109	37433784	IF1 ablation prevents ATP synthase oligomerization, enhances mitochondrial ATP turnover and promotes an adenosine-mediated pro-inflammatory phenotype. 	Stable Isotope Labeling using Amino acids in Cell culture (SILAC) (local data base)	CELLS, COLON, CT26, SILAC	ATPase Inhibitory Factor 1 (IF1) regulates the activity of mitochondrial ATP synthase. The expression of IF1 in differentiated human and mouse cells is highly variable. In intestinal cells, the overexpression of IF1 protects against colon inflammation. Herein, we have developed a conditional IF1-knockout mouse model in intestinal epithelium to investigate the role of IF1 in mitochondrial function and tissue homeostasis. The results show that IF1-ablated mice have increased ATP synthase/hydrolase activities, leading to profound mitochondrial dysfunction and a pro-inflammatory phenotype that impairs the permeability of the intestinal barrier compromising mouse survival upon inflammation. Deletion of IF1 prevents the formation of oligomeric assemblies of ATP synthase and alters cristae structure and the electron transport chain. Moreover, lack of IF1 promotes an intramitochondrial Ca(2+) overload in vivo, minimizing the threshold to Ca(2+)-induced permeability transition (mPT). Removal of IF1 in cell lines also prevents the formation of oligomeric assemblies of ATP synthase, minimizing the threshold to Ca(2+)-induced mPT. Metabolomic analyses of mice serum and colon tissue highlight that IF1 ablation promotes the activation of de novo purine and salvage pathways. Mechanistically, lack of IF1 in cell lines increases ATP synthase/hydrolase activities and installs futile ATP hydrolysis in mitochondria, resulting in the activation of purine metabolism and in the accumulation of adenosine, both in culture medium and in mice serum. Adenosine, through ADORA2B receptors, promotes an autoimmune phenotype in mice, stressing the role of the IF1/ATP synthase axis in tissue immune responses. Overall, the results highlight that IF1 is required for ATP synthase oligomerization and that it acts as a brake to prevent ATP hydrolysis under in vivo phosphorylating conditions in intestinal cells.
PXD038178	37433804	An RNA modification enzyme directly senses reactive oxygen species for translational regulation in Enterococcus faecalis. 	Epitranscriptomic regulation of the oxidative stress response by the radical S-adenosylmethionine methyltransferase RlmN	E. faecalis, Epitranscriptome, RlmN, oxidative stress	Bacteria possess elaborate systems to manage reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (ROS) arising from exposure to the mammalian immune system and environmental stresses. Here we report the discovery of an ROS-sensing RNA-modifying enzyme that regulates translation of stress-response proteins in the gut commensal and opportunistic pathogen Enterococcus faecalis. We analyze the tRNA epitranscriptome of E. faecalis in response to reactive oxygen species (ROS) or sublethal doses of ROS-inducing antibiotics and identify large decreases in N(2)-methyladenosine (m(2)A) in both 23 S ribosomal RNA and transfer RNA. This we determine to be due to ROS-mediated inactivation of the Fe-S cluster-containing methyltransferase, RlmN. Genetic knockout of RlmN gives rise to a proteome that mimics the oxidative stress response, with an increase in levels of superoxide dismutase and decrease in virulence proteins. While tRNA modifications were established to be dynamic for fine-tuning translation, here we report the discovery of a dynamically regulated, environmentally responsive rRNA modification. These studies lead to a model in which RlmN serves as a redox-sensitive molecular switch, directly relaying oxidative stress to modulating translation through the rRNA and the tRNA epitranscriptome, adding a different paradigm in which RNA modifications can directly regulate the proteome.
PXD036005	37433812	Glc7/PP1 dephosphorylates histone H3T11 to regulate autophagy and telomere silencing in response to nutrient availability. 	Saccharomyces cerevisiae LC-MSMS	Saccharomyces cerevisiae	How cells adapt their gene expression to nutritional changes remains poorly understood. Histone H3T11 is phosphorylated by pyruvate kinase to repress gene transcription. Here, we identify the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), Glc7 as the enzyme that specifically dephosphorylates H3T11. We also characterize two novel Glc7-containing complexes and reveal their roles in regulating gene expression upon glucose starvation. Specifically, the Glc7-Sen1 complex dephosphorylates H3T11 to activate the transcription of autophagy-related genes. The Glc7-Rif1-Rap1 complex dephosphorylates H3T11 to derepress the transcription of telomere-proximal genes. Upon glucose starvation, Glc7 expression is up-regulated and more Glc7 translocates into the nucleus to dephosphorylate H3T11, leading to induction of autophagy and derepressed transcription of telomere-proximal genes. Furthermore, the functions of PP1/Glc7 and the two Glc7-containing complexes are conserved in mammals to regulate autophagy and telomere structure. Collectively, our results reveal a novel mechanism that regulate gene expression and chromatin structure in response to glucose availability.
PXD039909	37434162	Identification of a novel role for TL1A/DR3 deficiency in acute respiratory distress syndrome that exacerbates alveolar epithelial disruption. 	The effects of knockout TL1A on LPS-induced ARDS mice	ARDS, LPS, TL1A	Alveolar epithelial barrier is a potential therapeutic target for acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). However, an effective intervention against alveolar epithelial barrier has not been developed. Here, based on single-cell RNA and mRNA sequencing results, death receptor 3 (DR3) and its only known ligand tumor necrosis factor ligand-associated molecule 1A (TL1A) were significantly reduced in epithelium from an ARDS mice and cell models. The apparent reduction in the TL1A/DR3 axis in lungs from septic-ARDS patients was correlated with the severity of the disease. The examination of knockout (KO) and alveolar epithelium conditional KO (CKO) mice showed that TL1A deficiency exacerbated alveolar inflammation and permeability in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ARDS. Mechanistically, TL1A deficiency decreased glycocalyx syndecan-1 and tight junction-associated zonula occludens 3 by increasing cathepsin E level for strengthening cell-to-cell permeability. Additionally, DR3 deletion aggravated barrier dysfunction and pulmonary edema in LPS-induced ARDS through the above mechanisms based on the analyses of DR3 CKO mice and DR3 overexpression cells. Therefore, the TL1A/DR3 axis has a potential value as a key therapeutic signaling for the protection of alveolar epithelial barrier.
PXD039912	37436164	Characterization of Hsp17, a Novel Small Heat Shock Protein, in Sphingomonas melonis TY under Heat Stress. 	Sphingomonas melonis TY to heat shock	Cell morphology, Heat shock, Multi-omics analysis, Small heat shock protein	Bacteria are constantly exposed to a variety of environmental stresses. Temperature is considered one of the most important environmental factors affecting microbial growth and survival. As ubiquitous environmental microorganisms, Sphingomonas species play essential roles in the biodegradation of organic contaminants, plant protection, and environmental remediation. Understanding the mechanism by which they respond to heat shock will help further improve cell resistance by applying synthetic biological strategies. Here, we assessed the transcriptomic and proteomic responses of Sphingomonas melonis TY to heat shock and found that stressful conditions caused significant changes in functional genes related to protein synthesis at the transcriptional level. The most notable changes observed were increases in the transcription (1,857-fold) and protein expression (11-fold) of Hsp17, which belongs to the small heat shock protein family, and the function of Hsp17 in heat stress was further investigated in this study. We found that the deletion of hsp17 reduced the capacity of the cells to tolerate high temperatures, whereas the overexpression of hsp17 significantly enhanced the ability of the cells to withstand high temperatures. Moreover, the heterologous expression of hsp17 in Escherichia coli DH5alpha conferred to the bacterium the ability to resist heat stress. Interestingly, its cells were elongated and formed connected cells following the increase in temperature, while hsp17 overexpression restored their normal morphology under high temperature. In general, these results indicate that the novel small heat shock protein Hsp17 greatly contributes to maintaining cell viability and morphology under stress conditions. IMPORTANCE Temperature is generally considered the most important factor affecting metabolic functions and the survival of microbes. As molecular chaperones, small heat shock proteins can prevent damaged protein aggregation during abiotic stress, especially heat stress. Sphingomonas species are widely distributed in nature, and they can frequently be found in various extreme environments. However, the role of small heat shock proteins in Sphingomonas under high-temperature stress has not been elucidated. This study greatly enhances our understanding of a novel identified protein, Hsp17, in S. melonis TY in terms of its ability to resist heat stress and maintain cell morphology under high temperature, leading to a broader understanding of how microbes adapt to environmental extremes. Furthermore, our study will provide potential heat resistance elements for further enhancing cellular resistance as well as the synthetic biological applications of Sphingomonas.
PXD038817	37436406	ProSight Native: Defining Protein Complex Composition from Native Top-Down Mass Spectrometry Data. 	ProSight Native Complex Down Analysis of Aquaporin Z	Native mass spectrometry	Native mass spectrometry has recently moved alongside traditional structural biology techniques in its ability to provide clear insights into the composition of protein complexes. However, to date, limited software tools are available for the comprehensive analysis of native mass spectrometry data on protein complexes, particularly for experiments aimed at elucidating the composition of an intact protein complex. Here, we introduce ProSight Native as a start-to-finish informatics platform for analyzing native protein and protein complex data. Combining mass determination via spectral deconvolution with a top-down database search and stoichiometry calculations, ProSight Native can determine the complete composition of protein complexes. To demonstrate its features, we used ProSight Native to successfully determine the composition of the homotetrameric membrane complex Aquaporin Z. We also revisited previously published spectra and were able to decipher the composition of a heterodimer complex bound with two noncovalently associated ligands. In addition to determining complex composition, we developed new tools in the software for validating native mass spectrometry fragment ions and mapping top-down fragmentation data onto three-dimensional protein structures. Taken together, ProSight Native will reduce the informatics burden on the growing field of native mass spectrometry, enabling the technology to further its reach.
PXD041814	37437058	MOV10 recruits DCP2 to decap human LINE-1 RNA by forming large cytoplasmic granules with phase separation properties. 	immunoprecipitation coupled with a mass spectrometry (MS) approach to identify cellular proteins associated with MOV10	IP, mass,MOV10	Long interspersed element 1 (LINE-1) is the only active autonomous mobile element in the human genome. Its transposition can exert deleterious effects on the structure and function of the host genome and cause sporadic genetic diseases. Tight control of LINE-1 mobilization by the host is crucial for genetic stability. In this study, we report that MOV10 recruits the main decapping enzyme DCP2 to LINE-1 RNA and forms a complex of MOV10, DCP2, and LINE-1 RNP, exhibiting liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) properties. DCP2 cooperates with MOV10 to decap LINE-1 RNA, which causes degradation of LINE-1 RNA and thus reduces LINE-1 retrotransposition. We here identify DCP2 as one of the key effector proteins determining LINE-1 replication, and elucidate an LLPS mechanism that facilitates the anti-LINE-1 action of MOV10 and DCP2.
PXD042218	37437887	PC4-mediated Ku complex PARylation facilitates NHEJ-dependent DNA damage repair. 	PC4-mediated Ku PARylation facilitates NHEJ-dependent DNA damage repair	MS, PC4, liver cancer	Radiotherapy is one of the mainstay treatments for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, a substantial number of patients with HCC develop radioresistance and eventually suffer from tumor progression or relapse, which is a major impediment to the use of radiotherapy. Therefore, elucidating the mechanisms underlying radioresistance and identifying novel therapeutic targets to improve patient prognosis are important in HCC management. In this study, using in vitro and in vivo models, laser microirradiation and live cell imaging methods, and coimmunoprecipitation assays, we report that a DNA repair enhancer, human positive cofactor 4 (PC4), promotes nonhomologous end joining-based DNA repair and renders HCC cells resistant to radiation. Mechanistically, PC4 interacts with poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 and directs Ku complex PARylation, resulting in the successful recruitment of the Ku complex to damaged chromatin and increasing the efficiency of nonhomologous end joining repair. Clinically, PC4 is highly expressed in tumor tissues and is correlated with poor prognosis in patients with HCC. Taken together, our data suggest that PC4 is a DNA repair driver that can be targeted to radiosensitize HCC cells.
PXD039873	37438638	Extracellular Vesicles Play a Central Role in Cerebral Venous Disease-Associated Brain Atrophy. 	Extracellular vesicles play a central role in the cerebral deep medullary vein reduction-associated brain atrophy	Deep medullary vein, brain atrophy, extracellular vesicles	Cerebral venous abnormalities, distinct from traditional arterial diseases, have been linked to brain atrophy in a previous community-based cohort study, specifically in relation to the reduction of deep medullary veins (r-DMVs). To better understand the properties and biological functions of serum extracellular vesicles (EVs) in cerebral venous disease-associated brain atrophy, EVs are extracted from the serum of both participants with r-DMV and normal controls and analyzed their proteomic profiles using Tandem Mass Tag label quantitation analysis. Phenotypic experiments showed that EVs from individuals with r-DMVs are able to disrupt the normal functions of neurons, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells, and induce A1 reactive astrocytes. Additionally, this study provided a comprehensive characterization of the proteomic profile of DMV EVs and found that the collagen hydroxyproline is upregulated, while complement C3 is downregulated in the r-DMV group, suggesting that r-DMV may not be a simple pathological phenomenon and highlighting the potential involvement of EVs in the progression of brain atrophy in r-DMVs which has implications for the development of future therapeutic strategies.
PXD040173	37439223	Comparison of Quantitative Mass Spectrometric Methods for Drug Target Identification by Thermal Proteome Profiling. 	A Comparison of Quantitative Mass Spectrometric Methods for Drug Target Identification by Thermal Proteome Profiling	Thermal proteome profiling (TPP), acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), data-dependent acquisition (DDA), data-independent acquisition (DIA), hybrid library, spectral library, tandem mass tag (TMT), target deconvolution	Thermal proteome profiling (TPP) provides a powerful approach to studying proteome-wide interactions of small therapeutic molecules and their target and off-target proteins, complementing phenotypic-based drug screens. Detecting differences in thermal stability due to target engagement requires high quantitative accuracy and consistent detection. Isobaric tandem mass tags (TMTs) are used to multiplex samples and increase quantification precision in TPP analysis by data-dependent acquisition (DDA). However, advances in data-independent acquisition (DIA) can provide higher sensitivity and protein coverage with reduced costs and sample preparation steps. Herein, we explored the performance of different DIA-based label-free quantification approaches compared to TMT-DDA for thermal shift quantitation. Acute myeloid leukemia cells were treated with losmapimod, a known inhibitor of MAPK14 (p38alpha). Label-free DIA approaches, and particularly the library-free mode in DIA-NN, were comparable of TMT-DDA in their ability to detect target engagement of losmapimod with MAPK14 and one of its downstream targets, MAPKAPK3. Using DIA for thermal shift quantitation is a cost-effective alternative to labeled quantitation in the TPP pipeline.
PXD042990	37439347	mRNA decapping activators Pat1 and Dhh1 regulate transcript abundance and translation to tune cellular responses to nutrient availability. 	Regulation of transcript abundance and translationny decapping activators Pat1 and Dhh1	S. cerevesiea, mRNA decay, translation	We have examined the roles of yeast mRNA decapping-activators Pat1 and Dhh1 in repressing the translation and abundance of specific mRNAs in nutrient-replete cells using ribosome profiling, RNA-Seq, CAGE analysis of capped mRNAs, RNA Polymerase II ChIP-Seq, and TMT-mass spectrometry of mutants lacking one or both factors. Although the Environmental Stress Response (ESR) is activated in dhh1Delta and pat1Delta mutants, hundreds of non-ESR transcripts are elevated in a manner indicating cumulative repression by Pat1 and Dhh1 in wild-type cells. These mRNAs show both reduced decapping and diminished transcription in the mutants, indicating that impaired mRNA turnover drives transcript derepression in cells lacking Dhh1 or Pat1. mRNA degradation stimulated by Dhh1/Pat1 is not dictated by poor translation nor enrichment for suboptimal codons. Pat1 and Dhh1 also collaborate to reduce translation and protein production from many mRNAs. Transcripts showing concerted translational repression by Pat1/Dhh1 include mRNAs involved in cell adhesion or utilization of the poor nitrogen source allantoin. Pat1/Dhh1 also repress numerous transcripts involved in respiration, catabolism of non-preferred carbon or nitrogen sources, or autophagy; and we obtained evidence for elevated respiration and autophagy in the mutants. Thus, Pat1 and Dhh1 function as post-transcriptional repressors of multiple pathways normally activated only during nutrient limitation.
PXD037131	37439356	TLK1-mediated RAD54 phosphorylation spatio-temporally regulates Homologous Recombination Repair. 	TLK1 phosphorylates human RAD54	RAD54, TLK1, phosphorylation	Environmental agents like ionizing radiation (IR) and chemotherapeutic drugs can cause severe damage to the DNA, often in the form of double-strand breaks (DSBs). Remaining unrepaired, DSBs can lead to chromosomal rearrangements, and cell death. One major error-free pathway to repair DSBs is homologous recombination repair (HRR). Tousled-like kinase 1 (TLK1), a Ser/Thr kinase that regulates the DNA damage checkpoint, has been found to interact with RAD54, a central DNA translocase in HRR. To determine how TLK1 regulates RAD54, we inhibited or depleted TLK1 and tested how this impacts HRR in human cells using a ISce-I-GR-DsRed fused reporter endonuclease. Our results show that TLK1 phosphorylates RAD54 at three threonines (T41, T59 and T700), two of which are located within its N-terminal domain (NTD) and one is located within its C-terminal domain (CTD). Phosphorylation at both T41 and T59 supports HRR and protects cells from DNA DSB damage. In contrast, phosphorylation of T700 leads to impaired HRR and engenders no protection to cells from cytotoxicity and rather results in repair delay. Further, our work enlightens the effect of RAD54-T700 (RAD54-CTD) phosphorylation by TLK1 in mammalian system and reveals a new site of interaction with RAD51.
PXD039702	37441524	Characterization of a soluble library of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 membrane proteome with emphasis on c-di-GMP turnover enzymes. 	Membrane complexome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	DIBMA polymer, membrane complexome, nanodiscs	Studies of protein-protein interactions in membranes are very important to fully understand the biological function of a cell. The extraction of proteins from the native membrane environment is a critical step in the preparation of membrane proteins that might affect the stability of protein complexes. In this work, we used the amphiphilic diisobutylene/maleic acid copolymer to extract the membrane proteome of the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, thereby creating a soluble membrane-protein library within a native-like lipid-bilayer environment. Size fractionation of nanodisc-embedded proteins and subsequent mass spectrometry enabled the identification of 3358 proteins. The native membrane-protein library showed a very good overall coverage compared to previous proteome data. The pattern of size fractionation indicated that protein complexes were preserved in the library. More than 20 previously described complexes, e.g. the SecYEG and Pili complexes, were identified and analyzed for coelution. Although the mass-spectrometric dataset alone did not reveal new protein complexes, combining pulldown assays with mass spectrometry was successful in identifying new protein interactions in the native membrane-protein library. Thus, we identified several candidate proteins for interactions with the membrane phosphodiesterase NbdA, a member of the c-di-GMP network. We confirmed the candidate proteins CzcR, PA4200, SadC, and PilB as novel interaction partners of NbdA using the bacterial adenylate cyclase two-hybrid assay. Taken together, this work demonstrates the usefulness of the native membrane-protein library of P. aeruginosa for the investigation of protein interactions and membrane-protein complexes. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD039702 and PXD039700.
PXD039304	37442371	Post-Translational Modification beta-Hydroxybutyrylation Regulates Ustilaginoidea virens Virulence. 	Proteome-wide analysis and functional identification of lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation in Ustilaginoidea virens	Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation, Ustilaginoidea virens, post-translational modification, virulence	Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb) is an evolutionarily conserved and widespread post-translational modification that is associated with active gene transcription and cellular proliferation. However, its role in phytopathogenic fungi remains unknown. Here, we characterized Kbhb in the rice false smut fungus Ustilaginoidea virens. We identified 2204 Kbhb sites in 852 proteins, which are involved in diverse biological processes. The mitogen-activated protein kinase UvSlt2 is a Kbhb protein, and a strain harboring a point mutation at K72, the Kbhb site of this protein, had decreased UvSlt2 activity and reduced fungal virulence. Molecular dynamic simulations revealed that K72bhb increases the hydrophobic solvent-accessible surface area of UvSlt2, thereby affecting its binding to its substrates. The mutation of K298bhb in the septin UvCdc10 resulted in reduced virulence and altered the subcellular localization of this protein. Moreover, we confirmed that the NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylases UvSirt2 and UvSirt5 are the major enzymes that remove Kbhb in U. virens. Collectively, our findings identify regulatory elements of the Kbhb pathway and reveal important roles for Kbhb in regulating protein localization and enzymatic activity. These findings provide insight into the regulation of virulence in phytopathogenic fungi via post-translational modifications.
PXD040964	37442609	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex regulates mitophagic trafficking and protein phosphorylation. 	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex regulates matrix protein phosphorylation and mitophagic selectivity	mitochondrion, mitophagy, phosphorylation	The mitophagic degradation of mitochondrial matrix proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae was previously shown to be selective, reflecting a pre-engulfment sorting step within the mitochondrial network. This selectivity is regulated through phosphorylation of mitochondrial matrix proteins by the matrix kinases Pkp1 and Pkp2, which in turn appear to be regulated by the phosphatase Aup1/Ptc6. However, these same proteins also regulate the phosphorylation status and catalytic activity of the yeast pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, which is critical for mitochondrial metabolism. To understand the relationship between these two functions, we evaluated the role of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex in mitophagic selectivity. Surprisingly, we identified a novel function of the complex in regulating mitophagic selectivity, which is independent of its enzymatic activity. Our data support a model in which the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex directly regulates the activity of its associated kinases and phosphatases. This regulatory interaction then determines the phosphorylation state of mitochondrial matrix proteins and their mitophagic fates.
PXD041067	37443299	Crosstalk between regulatory elements in disordered TRPV4 N-terminus modulates lipid-dependent channel activity. 	Structural dynamics of the chicken TRPV4 N-terminal domain	TRPV4	Intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) are essential for membrane receptor regulation but often remain unresolved in structural studies. TRPV4, a member of the TRP vanilloid channel family involved in thermo- and osmosensation, has a large N-terminal IDR of approximately 150 amino acids. With an integrated structural biology approach, we analyze the structural ensemble of the TRPV4 IDR and the network of antagonistic regulatory elements it encodes. These modulate channel activity in a hierarchical lipid-dependent manner through transient long-range interactions. A highly conserved autoinhibitory patch acts as a master regulator by competing with PIP2 binding to attenuate channel activity. Molecular dynamics simulations show that loss of the interaction between the PIP2-binding site and the membrane reduces the force exerted by the IDR on the structured core of TRPV4. This work demonstrates that IDR structural dynamics are coupled to TRPV4 activity and highlights the importance of IDRs for TRP channel function and regulation.
PXD036238	37444412	Molecular Characterization of Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Using Quantitative Proteomics. 	Molecular characterization of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma using quantitative proteomics	Cell cycle regulation, ER stress, Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, Quantitative proteomics, SYVN1	Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a heterogeneous cancer associated with a poor prognosis in advanced stages. In India, it is the sixth most common cause of cancer-related mortality. In this study, we employed high-resolution mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics to characterize the differential protein expression pattern associated with ESCC. We identified several differentially expressed proteins including PDPN, TOP2A, POSTN and MMP2 that were overexpressed in ESCC. In addition, we identified downregulation of esophagus tissue-enriched proteins such as SLURP1, PADI1, CSTA, small proline-rich proteins such as SPRR3, SPRR2A, SPRR1A, KRT4, and KRT13, involved in squamous cell differentiation. We identified several overexpressed proteins mapped to the 3q24-29 chromosomal region, aligning with CNV alterations in this region reported in several published studies. Among these, we identified overexpression of SOX2, TP63, IGF2BP2 and RNF13 that are encoded by genes in the 3q26 region. Functional enrichment analysis revealed proteins involved in cell cycle pathways, DNA replication, spliceosome, and DNA repair pathways. We identified the overexpression of multiple proteins that play a major role in alleviating ER stress, including SYVN1 and SEL1L. The SYVN1/SEL1L complex is an essential part of the ER quality control machinery clearing misfolded proteins from the ER. SYVN1 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that ubiquitinates ER-resident proteins. Interestingly, there are also other non-canonical substrates of SYVN1 which are known to play a crucial role in tumor progression. Thus, SYVN1 could be a potential therapeutic target in ESCC.
PXD042918	37445651	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of MCM3 in ThinPrep Samples of Patients with Cervical Preinvasive Cancer. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of MCM3 in ThinPrep samples of patients with cervical preinvasive cancer	Cervical Cancer, MCM3, PRM	Triage methods for cervical cancer detection show moderate accuracy and present considerable false-negative and false-positive result rates. A complementary diagnostic parameter could help improve the accuracy of identifying patients who need treatment. A pilot study was performed using a targeted proteomics approach with opportunistic ThinPrep samples obtained from women collected at the hospital's outpatient clinic to determine the concentration levels of minichromosome maintenance-3 (MCM3) and envoplakin (EVPL) proteins. Forty samples with 'negative for intraepithelial lesion or malignancy' (NILM), 21 samples with 'atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance' (ASC-US), and 33 samples with 'low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion and worse' (>=LSIL) were analyzed, using cytology and the patients' histology reports. Highly accurate concordance was obtained for gold-standard-confirmed samples, demonstrating that the MCM3/EVPL ratio can discriminate between non-dysplastic and dysplastic samples. On that account, we propose that MCM3 and EVPL are promising candidate protein biomarkers for population-based cervical cancer screening.
PXD041918	37446130	The Proteome and Lipidome of Extracellular Vesicles from Haemonchus contortus to Underpin Explorations of Host-Parasite Cross-Talk. 	The proteome of extracellular vesicles from Haemonchus contortus	Haemonchus contortus	Many parasitic worms have a major adverse impact on human and animal populations worldwide due to the chronicity of their infections. There is a growing body of evidence indicating that extracellular vesicles (EVs) are intimately involved in modulating (suppressing) inflammatory/immune host responses and parasitism. As one of the most pathogenic nematodes of livestock animals, Haemonchus contortus is an ideal model system for EV exploration. Here, employing a multi-step enrichment process (in vitro culture, followed by ultracentrifugation, size exclusion and filtration), we enriched EVs from H. contortus and undertook the first comprehensive (qualitative and quantitative) multi-omic investigation of EV proteins and lipids using advanced liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and informatics methods. We identified and quantified 561 proteins and 446 lipids in EVs and compared these molecules with those of adult worms. We identified unique molecules in EVs, such as proteins linked to lipid transportation and lipid species (i.e., sphingolipids) associated with signalling, indicating the involvement of these molecules in parasite-host cross-talk. This work provides a solid starting point to explore the functional roles of EV-specific proteins and lipids in modulating parasite-host cross-talk, and the prospect of finding ways of disrupting or interrupting this relationship to suppress or eliminate parasite infection.
PXD042822	37446263	Cyclophilin A Isomerisation of Septin 2 Mediates Abscission during Cytokinesis. 	Cyclophilin A isomerization of Septin 2 mediates abscission during cytokinesis	Cancer, Cyclophilin A, Cytokinesis, K562 cells, Septin 2	The isomerase activity of Cyclophilin A is important for midbody abscission during cell division, however, to date, midbody substrates remain unknown. In this study, we report that the GTP-binding protein Septin 2 interacts with Cyclophilin A. We highlight a dynamic series of Septin 2 phenotypes at the midbody, previously undescribed in human cells. Furthermore, Cyclophilin A depletion or loss of isomerase activity is sufficient to induce phenotypic Septin 2 defects at the midbody. Structural and molecular analysis reveals that Septin 2 proline 259 is important for interaction with Cyclophilin A. Moreover, an isomerisation-deficient EGFP-Septin 2 proline 259 mutant displays defective midbody localisation and undergoes impaired abscission, which is consistent with data from cells with loss of Cyclophilin A expression or activity. Collectively, these data reveal Septin 2 as a novel interacting partner and isomerase substrate of Cyclophilin A at the midbody that is required for abscission during cytokinesis in cancer cells.
PXD022055	37446562	Age-Related Changes in Post-Translational Modifications of Proteins from Whole Male and Female Skeletal Elements. 	Proteomic analysis of NCP's in rat bones	Non-collagenous proteions, Shotgun proteomics, age estimation, rat proteome	One of the key questions in forensic cases relates to some form of age inference, whether this is how old a crime scene is, when in time a particular crime was committed, or how old the victim was at the time of the crime. These age-related estimations are currently achieved through morphological methods with varying degrees of accuracy. As a result, biomolecular approaches are considered of great interest, with the relative abundances of several protein markers already recognized for their potential forensic significance; however, one of the greatest advantages of proteomic investigations over genomics ones is the wide range of post-translational modifications (PTMs) that make for a complex but highly dynamic resource of information. Here, we explore the abundance of several PTMs including the glycosylation, deamidation, and oxidation of several key proteins (collagen, fetuin A, biglycan, serum albumin, fibronectin and osteopontin) as being of potential value to the development of an age estimation tool worthy of further evaluation in forensic contexts. We find that glycosylations lowered into adulthood but deamidation and oxidation increased in the same age range.
PXD041756	37448575	Hypovirus infection induces proliferation and perturbs functions of mitochondria in the chestnut blight fungus. 	Cryphonectria parasitica mitochondria LC-MS/MS	Cryphonectria parasitica, hypovirus, mitochondria	Introduction: The chestnut blight fungus, Cryphonectria parasitica, and hypovirus have been used as a model to probe the mechanism of virulence and regulation of traits important to the host fungus. Previous studies have indicated that mitochondria could be the primary target of the hypovirus. Methods: In this study, we report a comprehensive and comparative study comprising mitochondrion quantification, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and respiratory efficiency, and quantitative mitochondrial proteomics of the wild-type and virus-infected strains of the chestnut blight fungus. Results and discussion: Our data show that hypovirus infection increases the total number of mitochondria, lowers the general ROS level, and increases mitochondrial respiratory efficiency. Quantification of mitochondrial proteomes revealed that a set of proteins functioning in energy metabolism and mitochondrial morphogenesis, as well as virulence, were regulated by the virus. In addition, two viral proteins, p29 and p48, were found to co-fractionate with the mitochondrial membrane and matrix. These results suggest that hypovirus perturbs the host mitochondrial functions to result in hypovirulence.
PXD041682	37449412	Paralogous translation factors target distinct mRNAs to differentially regulate tolerance to oxidative stress in yeast. 	Yeast eIF4G homogenic whole cell oxidative stress LC-MSMS	S. cerevisiae, oxidative stress, whole cell	Translation initiation factor 4G (eIF4G) is an integral component of the eIF4F complex which is key to translation initiation for most eukaryotic mRNAs. Many eIF4G isoforms have been described in diverse eukaryotic organisms but we currently have a poor understanding of their functional roles and whether they regulate translation in an mRNA specific manner. The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae expresses two eIF4G isoforms, eIF4G1 and eIF4G2, that have previously been considered as functionally redundant with any phenotypic differences arising due to alteration in eIF4G expression levels. Using homogenic strains that express eIF4G1 or eIF4G2 as the sole eIF4G isoforms at comparable expression levels to total eIF4G, we show that eIF4G1 is specifically required to mediate the translational response to oxidative stress. eIF4G1 binds the mRNA cap and remains associated with actively translating ribosomes during oxidative stress conditions and we use quantitative proteomics to show that eIF4G1 promotes oxidative stress-specific proteome changes. eIF4G1, but not eIF4G2, binds the Slf1 LARP protein which appears to mediate the eIF4G1-dependent translational response to oxidative stress. We show similar isoform specific roles for eIF4G in human cells suggesting convergent evolution of multiple eIF4G isoforms offers significant advantages especially where translation must continue under stress conditions.
PXD036542	37449973	Succinate mediates inflammation-induced adrenocortical dysfunction. 	Succinate mediates inflammation-induced adrenocortical dysfunction	TCA cycle, adrenal gland, glucocorticoids, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), succinate	The hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is activated in response to inflammation leading to increased production of anti-inflammatory glucocorticoids by the adrenal cortex, thereby representing an endogenous feedback loop. However, severe inflammation reduces the responsiveness of the adrenal gland to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), although the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we show by transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses that LPS-induced systemic inflammation triggers profound metabolic changes in steroidogenic adrenocortical cells, including downregulation of the TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, in mice. Inflammation disrupts the TCA cycle at the level of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), leading to succinate accumulation and disturbed steroidogenesis. Mechanistically, IL-1beta reduces SDHB expression through upregulation of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) and methylation of the SDHB promoter. Consequently, increased succinate levels impair oxidative phosphorylation and ATP synthesis and enhance ROS production, leading to reduced steroidogenesis. Together, we demonstrate that the IL-1beta-DNMT1-SDHB-succinate axis disrupts steroidogenesis. Our findings not only provide a mechanistic explanation for adrenal dysfunction in severe inflammation, but also offer a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
PXD036240	37450577	Autophagy regulation and protein kinase activity of PIK3C3 controls sertoli cell polarity through its negative regulation on SCIN (scinderin). 	PIK3C3/VPS34 controls Sertoli cell polarity in the mouse testis through the stabilization of the actin cytoskeleton	F-actin, PIK3C3/VPS34, Sertoli cell, autophagy, cell polarity, spermatogenesis	Sertoli cells are highly polarized testicular cells that provide a nurturing environment for germ cell development and maturation during spermatogenesis. The class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PtdIns3K) plays core roles in macroautophagy in various cell types; however, its role in Sertoli cells remains unclear. Here, we generated a mouse line in which the gene encoding the catalytic subunit, Pik3c3, was specifically deleted in Sertoli cells (cKO) and found that after one round of normal spermatogenesis, the cKO mice quickly became infertile and showed disruption of Sertoli cell polarity and impaired spermiogenesis. Subsequent proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses enriched the F-actin cytoskeleton network involved in the disorganized Sertoli-cell structure in cKO testis which we identified a significant increase of the F-actin negative regulator SCIN (scinderin) and the reduced phosphorylation of HDAC6, an alpha-tubulin deacetylase. Our results further demonstrated that the accumulation of SCIN in cKO Sertoli cells caused the disorder and disassembly of the F-actin cytoskeleton, which was related to the failure of SCIN degradation through the autophagy-lysosome pathway. Additionally, we found that the phosphorylation of HDAC6 at site S59 by PIK3C3 was essential for its degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. As a result, the HDAC6 that accumulated in cKO Sertoli cells deacetylated SCIN at site K189 and led to a disorganized F-actin cytoskeleton. Taken together, our findings elucidate a new mechanism for PIK3C3 in maintaining the polarity of Sertoli cells, in which both its autophagy regulation or protein kinase activities are required for the stabilization of the actin cytoskeleton.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin, beta; AR: androgen receptor; ATG14: autophagy related 14; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; BTB: blood-testis barrier; CASP3: caspase 3; CDC42: cell division cycle 42; CDH2: cadherin 2; CHX: cycloheximide; CTNNA1: catenin (cadherin associated protein), alpha 1; CYP11A1: cytochrome P450, family 11, subfamily A, polypeptide 1; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ES: ectoplasmic specialization; FITC: fluorescein isothiocyanate; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GCNA: germ cell nuclear acidic protein; GJA1: gap junction protein, alpha 1; H2AX: H2A.X variant histone; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; KIT: KIT proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP3K5: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; OCLN: occludin; PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PIK3R4: phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 4; PNA: arachis hypogaea lectin; RAC1: Rac family small GTPase 1; SCIN: scinderin; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SSC: spermatogonia stem cell; STK11: serine/threonine kinase 11; TJP1: tight junction protein 1; TubA: tubastatin A; TUBB3: tubulin beta 3 class III; TUNEL: TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling; UB: ubiquitin; UVRAG: UV radiation resistance associated gene; VIM: vimentin; WT1: WT1 transcription factor; ZBTB16: zinc finger and BTB domain containing 16.
PXD039598	37450889	Metaproteomic Analysis of Nasopharyngeal Swab Samples to Identify Microbial Peptides in COVID-19 Patients. 	Metaproteomic analysis of nasopharyngeal swab samples to identify microbial peptides and potential co-infection status in COVID-19 patients	COVID-19, Clinical Metaproteomics, Nasopharyngeal Swab	During the COVID-19 pandemic, impaired immunity and medical interventions resulted in cases of secondary infections. The clinical difficulties and dangers associated with secondary infections in patients necessitate the exploration of their microbiome. Metaproteomics is a powerful approach to study the taxonomic composition and functional status of the microbiome under study. In this study, the mass spectrometry (MS)-based data of nasopharyngeal swab samples from COVID-19 patients was used to investigate the metaproteome. We have established a robust bioinformatics workflow within the Galaxy platform, which includes (a) generation of a tailored database of the common respiratory tract pathogens, (b) database search using multiple search algorithms, and (c) verification of the detected microbial peptides. The microbial peptides detected in this study, belong to several opportunistic pathogens such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Rhizopus microsporus, and Syncephalastrum racemosum. Microbial proteins with a role in stress response, gene expression, and DNA repair were found to be upregulated in severe patients compared to negative patients. Using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), we confirmed some of the microbial peptides in fresh clinical samples. MS-based clinical metaproteomics can serve as a powerful tool for detection and characterization of potential pathogens, which can significantly impact the diagnosis and treatment of patients.
PXD033973	37450924	Human APOE4 Protects High-Fat and High-Sucrose Diet Fed Targeted Replacement Mice against Fatty Liver Disease Compared to APOE3. 	Human APOE3 expressing mice are more prone to develop fatty liver disease on a high fat and sugar diet compared to APOE4 mice	2D-LC, TMT, apolipoprotein E polymorphism, dietary restriction, hepatic steatosis	Recent genome- and exome-wide association studies suggest that the human APOE epsilon4 allele protects against non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), while epsilon3 promotes hepatic steatosis and steatohepatitis. The present study aimed at examining the APOE genotype-dependent development of fatty liver disease and its underlying mechanisms in a targeted replacement mouse model. Male mice expressing the human APOE3 or APOE4 protein isoforms on a C57BL/6J background and unmodified C57BL/6J mice were chronically fed a high-fat and high-sucrose diet to induce obesity. After 7 months, body weight gain was more pronounced in human APOE than endogenous APOE expressing mice with elevated plasma biomarkers suggesting aggravated metabolic dysfunction. APOE3 mice exhibited the highest liver weights and, compared to APOE4, massive hepatic steatosis. An untargeted quantitative proteome analysis of the liver identified a high number of proteins differentially abundant in APOE3 versus APOE4 mice. The majority of the higher abundant proteins in APOE3 mice could be grouped to inflammation and damage-associated response, and lipid storage, amongst others. Results of the targeted qRT-PCR and Western blot analyses contribute to the overall finding that APOE3 as opposed to APOE4 promotes hepatic steatosis, inflammatory- and damage-associated response signaling and fibrosis in the liver of obese mice. Our experimental data substantiate the observation of an increased NAFLD-risk associated with the human APOEepsilon3 allele, while APOEepsilon4 appears protective. The underlying mechanisms of the protection possibly involve a higher capacity of nonectopic lipid deposition in subcutaneous adipose tissue and lower hepatic pathogen recognition in the APOE4 mice.
PXD035043	37451476	Subunit composition of mitochondrial dehydrogenase complexes in diplonemid flagellates. 	Paradiplonema papillatum E3 interactome	PDH complex, Paradiplonema papillatum, immunoprecipitation	In eukaryotes, pyruvate, a key metabolite produced by glycolysis, is converted by a tripartite mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex to acetyl-coenzyme A, which is fed into the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Two additional enzyme complexes with analogous composition catalyze similar oxidative decarboxylation reactions albeit using different substrates, the branched-chain ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDH) complex and the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH) complex. Comparative transcriptome analyses of diplonemids, one of the most abundant and diverse groups of oceanic protists, indicate that the conventional E1, E2, and E3 subunits of the PDH complex are lacking. E1 was apparently replaced in the euglenozoan ancestor of diplonemids by an AceE protein of archaeal type, a substitution that we also document in dinoflagellates. Here, we demonstrate that the mitochondrion of the model diplonemid Paradiplonema papillatum displays pyruvate and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase activities. Protein mass spectrometry of mitochondria reveal that the AceE protein is as abundant as the E1 subunit of BCKDH. This corroborates the view that the AceE subunit is a functional component of the PDH complex. We hypothesize that by acquiring AceE, the diplonemid ancestor not only lost the eukaryotic-type E1, but also the E2 and E3 subunits of the PDH complex, which are present in other euglenozoans. We posit that the PDH activity in diplonemids seems to be carried out by a complex, in which the AceE protein partners with the E2 and E3 subunits from BCKDH and/or OGDH.
PXD040450	37452023	Lysosomal cystine export regulates mTORC1 signaling to guide kidney epithelial cell fate specialization. 	Lysosomal cystine export regulates mTORC1 signaling to guide kidney epithelial cell fate specialization, proteomics-based profiling of Ctns KO mouse proximal tubule cells (mPTCs)	CTNS, Cystinosis, Fanconi syndrome, kidney failure, mTORC1	Differentiation is critical for cell fate decisions, but the signals involved remain unclear. The kidney proximal tubule (PT) cells reabsorb disulphide-rich proteins through endocytosis, generating cystine via lysosomal proteolysis. Here we report that defective cystine mobilization from lysosomes through cystinosin (CTNS), which is mutated in cystinosis, diverts PT cells towards growth and proliferation, disrupting their functions. Mechanistically, cystine storage stimulates Ragulator-Rag GTPase-dependent recruitment of mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) and its constitutive activation. Re-introduction of CTNS restores nutrient-dependent regulation of mTORC1 in knockout cells, whereas cell-permeant analogues of L-cystine, accumulating within lysosomes, render wild-type cells resistant to nutrient withdrawal. Therapeutic mTORC1 inhibition corrects lysosome and differentiation downstream of cystine storage, and phenotypes in preclinical models of cystinosis. Thus, cystine serves as a lysosomal signal that tailors mTORC1 and metabolism to direct epithelial cell fate decisions. These results identify mechanisms and therapeutic targets for dysregulated homeostasis in cystinosis.
PXD042216	37452037	The RNA-binding protein LRPPRC promotes resistance to CDK4/6 inhibition in lung cancer. 	Proteomics comparison of protein changes in H1299 cell before and after resistance to cdk4/6 inhibitors	CDK4/6 inhibitor, H1299	Kinase inhibitors against Cyclin Dependent Kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6i) are promising cancer therapeutic drugs. However, their effects are limited by primary or acquired resistance in virtually all tumor types. Here, we demonstrate that Leucine Rich Pentatricopeptide Repeat Containing (LRPPRC) controls CDK4/6i response in lung cancer by forming a feedback loop with CDK6. LRPPRC binds to CDK6-mRNA, increasing the stability and expression of CDK6. CDK6 and its downstream E2F Transcription Factor 1 (E2F1), bind to the LRPPRC promoter and elevate LRPPRC transcription. The activation of the LRPPRC-CDK6 loop facilitates cell cycle G1/S transition, oxidative phosphorylation, and cancer stem cell generation. Gossypol acetate (GAA), a gynecological medicine that has been repurposed as a degrader of LRPPRC, enhances the CDK4/6i sensitivity in vitro and in vivo. Our study reveals a mechanism responsible for CDK4/6i resistance and provides an enlightening approach to investigating the combinations of CDK4/6 and LRPPRC inhibitors in cancer therapy.
PXD039342	37452635	Ultrafast and Controlled Capturing, Loading, and Release of Extracellular Vesicles by a Portable Microstructured Electrochemical Fluidic Device. 	Ultra-fast and controlled capturing, loading, and release of extracellular vesicles by a portable microstructured electrochemical fluidic device	exosomes, vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are secreted by all living cells and are found in body fluids. They exert numerous physiological and pathological functions and serve as cargo shuttles. Due to their safety and inherent bioactivity, they have emerged as versatile therapeutic agents, biomarkers, and potential drug carriers. Despite the growing interest in EVs, current progress in this field is, in part, limited by relatively inefficient isolation techniques. Conventional methods are indeed slow, laborious, require specialized laboratory equipment, and may result in low yield and purity. This work describes an electrochemically controlled "all-in-one" device enabling capturing, loading, and releasing of EVs. The device is composed of a fluidic channel confined within antibody-coated microstructured electrodes. It rapidly isolates EVs with a high level of purity from various biofluids. As a proof of principle, the device is applied to isolate EVs from skin wounds of healthy and diabetic mice. Strikingly, it is found that EVs from healing wounds of diabetic mice are enriched in mitochondrial proteins compared to those of healthy mice. Additionally, the device improves the loading protocol of EVs with polyplexes, and may therefore find applications in nucleic acid delivery. Overall, the electrochemical device can greatly facilitate the development of EVs-based technologies.
PXD038924	37453059	Activation of autophagy depends on Atg1/Ulk1-mediated phosphorylation and inhibition of the Hsp90 chaperone machinery. 	Activation of autophagy depends on Atg1/ULK1 mediated phosphorylation of the chaperone Hsp90	Phosphorylation, SUMOylation, Serine/threonine protein phosphatase-5 (PP5), co-chaperone, heat shock protein-90 (Hsp90), molecular chaperone	Cellular homeostasis relies on both the chaperoning of proteins and the intracellular degradation system that delivers cytoplasmic constituents to the lysosome, a process known as autophagy. The crosstalk between these processes and their underlying regulatory mechanisms is poorly understood. Here, we show that the molecular chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) forms a complex with the autophagy-initiating kinase Atg1 (yeast)/Ulk1 (mammalian), which suppresses its kinase activity. Conversely, environmental cues lead to Atg1/Ulk1-mediated phosphorylation of a conserved serine in the amino domain of Hsp90, inhibiting its ATPase activity and altering the chaperone dynamics. These events impact a conformotypic peptide adjacent to the activation and catalytic loop of Atg1/Ulk1. Finally, Atg1/Ulk1-mediated phosphorylation of Hsp90 leads to dissociation of the Hsp90:Atg1/Ulk1 complex and activation of Atg1/Ulk1, which is essential for initiation of autophagy. Our work indicates a reciprocal regulatory mechanism between the chaperone Hsp90 and the autophagy kinase Atg1/Ulk1 and consequent maintenance of cellular proteostasis.
PXD034052	37453421	Insulin sensitization by small molecules enhancing GLUT4 translocation. 	Identification of Small molecule Insulin Sensitizers for the Treatment of Insulin Resistance.	Diabetes, small molecule drug	Insulin resistance (IR) is the root cause of type II diabetes, yet no safe treatment is available to address it. Using a high throughput compatible assay that measures real-time translocation of the glucose transporter glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4), we identified small molecules that potentiate insulin action. In vivo, these insulin sensitizers improve insulin-stimulated GLUT4 translocation, glucose tolerance, and glucose uptake in a model of IR. Using proteomic and CRISPR-based approaches, we identified the targets of those compounds as Unc119 proteins and solved the structure of Unc119 bound to the insulin sensitizer. This study identifies compounds that have the potential to be developed into diabetes treatment and establishes Unc119 proteins as targets for improving insulin sensitivity.
PXD037990	37453717	Mapping the Human Chondroitin Sulfate Glycoproteome Reveals an Unexpected Correlation Between Glycan Sulfation and Attachment Site Characteristics. 	Mapping the human chondroitin sulfate glycoproteome reveals an unexpected correlation between glycan sulfation and attachment site characteristics	glycopeptides, glycoproteomics, glycosaminoglycans, proteoglycans	Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) control key events in human health and disease and are composed of chondroitin sulfate (CS) polysaccharide(s) attached to different core proteins. Detailed information on the biological effects of site-specific CS structures is scarce as the polysaccharides are typically released from their core proteins prior to analysis. Here we present a novel glycoproteomic approach for site-specific sequencing of CS modifications from human urine. Software-assisted and manual analysis revealed that certain core proteins carried CS with abundant sulfate modifications, while others carried CS with lower levels of sulfation. Inspection of the amino acid sequences surrounding the attachment sites indicated that the acidity of the attachment site motifs increased the levels of CS sulfation, and statistical analysis confirmed this relationship. However, not only the acidity but also the sequence and characteristics of specific amino acids in the proximity of the serine glycosylation site correlated with the degree of sulfation. These results demonstrate attachment site-specific characteristics of CS polysaccharides of CSPGs in human urine and indicate that this novel method may assist in elucidating the biosynthesis and functional roles of CSPGs in cellular physiology.
PXD040592	37455296	Serum proteome profiles in patients treated with targeted temperature management after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. 	Serum proteome profiles in patients treated with targeted temperature management after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest	cardiac arrest, serum, temperature treatment	BACKGROUND: Definition of temporal serum proteome profiles after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest may identify biological processes associated with severe hypoxia-ischaemia and reperfusion. It may further explore intervention effects for new mechanistic insights, identify candidate prognostic protein biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets. This pilot study aimed to investigate serum proteome profiles from unconscious patients admitted to hospital after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest according to temperature treatment and neurological outcome. METHODS: Serum samples at 24, 48, and 72 h after cardiac arrest at three centres included in the Target Temperature Management after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest trial underwent data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry analysis (DIA-MS) to find changes in serum protein concentrations associated with neurological outcome at 6-month follow-up and targeted temperature management (TTM) at 33 degreesC as compared to 36 degreesC. Neurological outcome was defined according to Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) scale as "good" (CPC 1-2, good cerebral performance or moderate disability) or "poor" (CPC 3-5, severe disability, unresponsive wakefulness syndrome, or death). RESULTS: Of 78 included patients [mean age 66 +/- 12 years, 62 (80.0%) male], 37 (47.4%) were randomised to TTM at 36 degreesC. Six-month outcome was poor in 47 (60.3%) patients. The DIA-MS analysis identified and quantified 403 unique human proteins. Differential protein abundance testing comparing poor to good outcome showed 19 elevated proteins in patients with poor outcome (log2-fold change (FC) range 0.28-1.17) and 16 reduced proteins (log2(FC) between - 0.22 and - 0.68), involved in inflammatory/immune responses and apoptotic signalling pathways for poor outcome and proteolysis for good outcome. Analysis according to level of TTM showed a significant protein abundance difference for six proteins [five elevated proteins in TTM 36 degreesC (log2(FC) between 0.33 and 0.88), one reduced protein (log2(FC) - 0.6)] mainly involved in inflammatory/immune responses only at 48 h after cardiac arrest. CONCLUSIONS: Serum proteome profiling revealed an increase in inflammatory/immune responses and apoptosis in patients with poor outcome. In patients with good outcome, an increase in proteolysis was observed, whereas TTM-level only had a modest effect on the proteome profiles. Further validation of the differentially abundant proteins in response to neurological outcome is necessary to validate novel biomarker candidates that may predict prognosis after cardiac arrest.
PXD041722	37456137	Senescence in human AC16 cardiac cells is associated with thymidine kinase induction and histone loss. 	Human AC16 Cardiac Cells under Doxorubicin Treatment	AC16, Doxorubicin, HVCF, TMT	AC16 cells are a transformed human cardiac cell line commonly used to study cardiomyocyte biology. We show that reduced proliferation and senescence markers can be robustly induced in AC16 cells cultured in low serum condition and treated with (i) low-dose doxorubicin, (ii) UV 254 nm, or (iii) H 2 O 2 exposure for up to 48 hours. Increased p21 (CDKN1A) and H2A.X variant histone (H2AX) levels serve as reliable molecular markers upon all three treatment conditions, but the up-regulation of another common senescence marker, p16 (CDKN2A) was not observed. A proteomics screen further shows that the loss of histones and the increased expression of thymidine kinases (TK1) are prominent features of AC16 cells under doxorubicin induced senescence.
PXD041982	37456138	Co-culture with normal and senescent AC16 cardiomyocytes modulates fibrotic response in primary human ventricular fibroblasts. 	Primary human cardiac ventricular fibroblasts	Fibroblast	Transwell co-culture with human AC16 cardiomyocyte-like cells modifies the response of primary human ventricular fibroblasts to TGF-beta stimulation. Fibrotic response markers including collagen I (COL1A1) and a-smooth muscle actin (ACTA2) are amplified in the presence of AC16 cells, whereas others including periostin (POSTN) and fibronectin (FN1) are suppressed. Similar modulation is observed when the ventricular fibroblasts are co-cultured with AC16 cells under baseline and induced senescence conditions. Given that the response to TGF-beta stimulation is commonly measured to study fibrotic signaling and drug treatments in vitro, the results here suggest that the effect of cellular crosstalk should be more broadly considered.
PXD038452	37457661	Integrated multiomic analysis and high-throughput screening reveal potential gene targets and synergetic drug combinations for osteosarcoma therapy. 	Human osteosarcoma and adjacent normal tissues	Osteosarcoma, TMT-MS	Although great advances have been made over the past decades, therapeutics for osteosarcoma are quite limited. We performed long-read RNA sequencing and tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteome on osteosarcoma and the adjacent normal tissues, next-generation sequencing (NGS) on paired osteosarcoma samples before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT), and high-throughput drug combination screen on osteosarcoma cell lines. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were analyzed to reveal the heterogeneity of potential therapeutic target genes. Additionally, we clarified the synergistic mechanisms of doxorubicin (DOX) and HDACs inhibitors for osteosarcoma treatment. Consequently, we identified 2535 osteosarcoma-specific genes and several alternative splicing (AS) events with osteosarcoma specificity and/or patient heterogeneity. Hundreds of potential therapeutic targets were identified among them, which showed the core regulatory roles in osteosarcoma. We also identified 215 inhibitory drugs and 236 synergistic drug combinations for osteosarcoma treatment. More interestingly, the multiomic analysis pointed out the pivotal role of HDAC1 and TOP2A in osteosarcoma. HDAC inhibitors synergized with DOX to suppress osteosarcoma both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, HDAC inhibitors synergized with DOX by downregulating SP1 to transcriptionally modulate TOP2A expression. This study provided a comprehensive view of molecular features, therapeutic targets, and synergistic drug combinations for osteosarcoma.
PXD042626	37458356	p38gamma and p38delta modulate innate immune response by regulating MEF2D activation. 	p38gamma and p38delta modulate innate immune response by regulating MEF2D activation	MEF2D, inflammation, p38gamma, p38delta, phosphorylation	Evidence implicating p38gamma and p38delta (p38gamma/p38delta) in inflammation are mainly based on experiments using Mapk12/Mapk13-deficient (p38gamma/deltaKO) mice, which show low levels of TPL2, the kinase upstream of MKK1-ERK1/2 in myeloid cells. This could obscure p38gamma/p38delta roles, since TPL2 is essential for regulating inflammation. Here, we generated a Mapk12(D171A/D171A)/Mapk13(-/-) (p38gamma/deltaKIKO) mouse, expressing kinase-inactive p38gamma and lacking p38delta. This mouse exhibited normal TPL2 levels, making it an excellent tool to elucidate specific p38gamma/p38delta functions. p38gamma/deltaKIKO mice showed a reduced inflammatory response and less susceptibility to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced septic shock and Candida albicans infection than wild-type (WT) mice. Gene expression analyses in LPS-activated wild-type and p38gamma/deltaKIKO macrophages revealed that p38gamma/p38delta-regulated numerous genes implicated in innate immune response. Additionally, phospho-proteomic analyses and in vitro kinase assays showed that the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor-2D (MEF2D) was phosphorylated at Ser444 via p38gamma/p38delta. Mutation of MEF2D Ser444 to the non-phosphorylatable residue Ala increased its transcriptional activity and the expression of Nos2 and Il1b mRNA. These results suggest that p38gamma/p38delta govern innate immune responses by regulating MEF2D phosphorylation and transcriptional activity.
PXD038124	37458592	Comparative Lysine Acetylome Analysis of Y. pestis YfiQ/CobB Mutants Reveals that Acetylation of SlyA Lys73 Significantly Promotes Biofilm Formation of Y. pestis. 	Comprehensive profiling of lysine acetylome in Yersinia pestis	Yersinia pestis (Y. pestis), lysine acetylation, mass spectrometry (MS), post-translational modifications (PTMs)	Increasing evidence shows that protein lysine acetylation is involved in almost every aspect of cellular physiology in bacteria. Yersinia pestis is a flea-borne pathogen responsible for millions of human deaths in three global pandemics. However, the functional role of lysine acetylation in this pathogen remains unclear. Here, we found more acetylated proteins and a higher degree of acetylation in Y. pestis grown under mammalian host (Mh) conditions than under flea vector (Fv) conditions, suggesting that protein acetylation could significantly change during fleabite transmission. Comparative acetylome analysis of mutants of YfiQ and CobB, the major acetyltransferase and deacetylase of Y. pestis, respectively, identified 23 YfiQ-dependent and 315 CobB-dependent acetylated proteins. Further results demonstrated that acetylation of Lys73 of the SlyA protein, a MarR-family transcriptional regulator, inhibits its binding to the promoter of target genes, including hmsT that encodes diguanylate cyclase responsible for the synthesis of c-di-GMP, and significantly enhances biofilm formation of Y. pestis. Our study presents the first extensive acetylome data of Y. pestis and a critical resource for the functional study of lysine acetylation in this pathogen. IMPORTANCE Yersinia pestis is the etiological agent of plague, historically responsible for three global pandemics. The 2017 plague epidemic in Madagascar was a reminder that Y. pestis remains a real threat in many parts of the world. Plague is a zoonotic disease that primarily infects rodents via fleabite, and transmission of Y. pestis from infected fleas to mammals requires rapid adaptive responses to adverse host environments to establish infection. Our study provides the first global profiling of lysine acetylation derived from mass spectrometry analysis in Y. pestis. Our data set can serve as a critical resource for the functional study of lysine acetylation in Y. pestis and provides new molecular insight into the physiological role of lysine acetylation in proteins. More importantly, we found that acetylation of Lys73 of SlyA significantly promotes biofilm formation of Y. pestis, indicating that bacteria can use lysine acetylation to fine-tune the expression of genes to improve adaptation.
PXD040672	37458600	Cronobacter sakazakii Pyridoxal Kinase PdxY Mediated by TreR and pESA3 Is Essential for Vitamin B6 (PLP) Maintenance and Virulence. 	proteomic analysis of deletion mutants in Cronobacter sakazakii BAA-894	Cronobacter sakazakii BAA-894, knockout mutants	Cronobacter sakazakii is an opportunistic pathogen capable of causing severe infections, particularly in neonates. Despite the bacterium's strong pathogenicity, the pathogenicity of C. sakazakii is not yet well understood. Using a comparative proteomic profiling approach, we successfully identified pdxY, encoding a pyridoxal kinase involved in the recycling of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), as a gene essential for the successful pathogenesis of C. sakazakii. Knocking out the pdxY gene resulted in slower growth and reduced virulence. Our study sheds light on the fundamental importance of pyridoxal kinase for the survival and virulence of C. sakazakii. The identification of pdxY as gene essential for successful pathogenesis provides a potential target for the development of new antibiotic treatments. IMPORTANCE The opportunistic pathogen Cronobacter sakazakii is known to cause severe infections, particularly in neonates, and can result in high mortality rates. In this study, we used a comparative proteomic profiling approach to identify genes essential for the successful pathogenesis of C. sakazakii. We successfully identified pdxY, encoding a pyridoxal kinase involved in the salvage pathway of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), as a gene essential for the successful pathogenesis of C. sakazakii. Knocking out the pdxY gene resulted in impaired growth and reduced virulence. This study sheds light on the fundamental importance of pyridoxal kinase for the survival and virulence of C. sakazakii, which can be a potential target for the development of new antibiotic treatments. This study highlights the importance of comparative proteomic profiling in identifying virulence factors that can be targeted for the development of new antibiotics.
PXD038483	37458933	Targeting mitochondria in the aged cerebral vasculature with SS-31, a proteomic study of brain microvessels. 	Targeting mitochondria in the aged vasculature with SS-31, a proteomic study of brain microvessels.	TMT, brain, microvessels, mitochondria	Cognitive impairment and dementias during aging such as Alzheimer's disease are linked to functional decline and structural alterations of the brain microvasculature. Although mechanisms leading to microvascular changes during aging are not clear, loss of mitochondria, and reduced efficiency of remaining mitochondria appear to play a major role. Pharmacological agents, such as SS-31, which target mitochondria have been shown to be effective during aging and diseases; however, the benefit to mitochondrial- and non-mitochondrial proteins in the brain microvasculature has not been examined. We tested whether attenuation of aging-associated changes in the brain microvascular proteome via targeting mitochondria represents a therapeutic option for the aging brain. We used aged male (> 18 months) C57Bl6/J mice treated with a mitochondria-targeted tetrapeptide, SS-31, or vehicle saline. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was determined using laser speckle imaging during a 2-week treatment period. Then, isolated cortical microvessels (MVs) composed of end arterioles, capillaries, and venules were used for Orbitrap Eclipse Tribrid mass spectrometry. CBF was similar among the groups, whereas bioinformatic analysis revealed substantial differences in protein abundance of cortical MVs between SS-31 and vehicle. We identified 6267 proteins, of which 12% were mitochondria-associated. Of this 12%, 107 were significantly differentially expressed and were associated with oxidative phosphorylation, metabolism, the antioxidant defense system, or mitochondrial dynamics. Administration of SS-31 affected many non-mitochondrial proteins. Our findings suggest that mitochondria in the microvasculature represent a therapeutic target in the aging brain, and widespread changes in the proteome may underlie the rejuvenating actions of SS-31 in aging.
PXD042052	37459543	DPPA5A suppresses the mutagenic TLS and MMEJ pathways by modulating the cryptic splicing of Rev1 and Polq in mouse embryonic stem cells. 	Indentification of the interaction proteins of DPPA5A in mouse embryonic stem cells	DPPA5A, Proteome profiling	Genetic alterations are often acquired during prolonged propagation of pluripotent stem cells (PSCs). This ruins the stem cell quality and hampers their full applications. Understanding how PSCs maintain genomic integrity would provide the clues to overcome the hurdle. It has been known that embryonic stem cells (ESCs) utilize high-fidelity pathways to ensure genomic stability, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely elusive. Here, we show that many DNA damage response and repair genes display differential alternative splicing in mouse ESCs compared to differentiated cells. Particularly, Rev1 and Polq, two key genes for mutagenic translesion DNA synthesis (TLS) and microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ) repair pathways, respectively, display a significantly higher rate of cryptic exon (CE) inclusion in ESCs. The frequent CE inclusion disrupts the normal protein expressions of REV1 and POLtheta, thereby suppressing the mutagenic TLS and MMEJ. Further, we identify an ESC-specific RNA binding protein DPPA5A which stimulates the CE inclusion in Rev1 and Polq. Depletion of DPPA5A in mouse ESCs decreased the CE inclusion of Rev1 and Polq, induced the protein expression, and stimulated the TLS and MMEJ activity. Enforced expression of DPPA5A in NIH3T3 cells displayed reverse effects. Mechanistically, we found that DPPA5A directly regulated CE splicing of Rev1. DPPA5A associates with U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein of the spliceosome and binds to the GA-rich motif in the CE of Rev1 to promote CE inclusion. Thus, our study uncovers a mechanism to suppress mutagenic TLS and MMEJ pathways in ESCs.
PXD042844	37460463	Proteogenomics of clear cell renal cell carcinoma response to tyrosine kinase inhibitor. 	Proteogenomic landscape of clear cell renal cell carcinoma response to tyrosine kinase inhibitor	Proteogenomic, ccRCC	The tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) Sunitinib is one the therapies approved for advanced renal cell carcinoma. Here, we undertake proteogenomic profiling of 115 tumors from patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) undergoing Sunitinib treatment and reveal the molecular basis of differential clinical outcomes with TKI therapy. We find that chromosome 7q gain-induced mTOR signaling activation is associated with poor therapeutic outcomes with Sunitinib treatment, whereas the aristolochic acid signature and VHL mutation synergistically caused enhanced glycolysis is correlated with better prognosis. The proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis further highlights the responsibility of mTOR signaling for non-response to Sunitinib. Immune landscape characterization reveals diverse tumor microenvironment subsets in ccRCC. Finally, we construct a multi-omics classifier that can detect responder and non-responder patients (receiver operating characteristic-area under the curve, 0.98). Our study highlights associations between ccRCC molecular characteristics and the response to TKI, which can facilitate future improvement of therapeutic responses.
PXD040835	37460559	Epigenetic mechanisms to propagate histone acetylation by p300/CBP. 	Epigenetic mechanisms to propagate histone acetylation by p300/CBP	Acetylation, Histone, P300/CBP	Histone acetylation is important for the activation of gene transcription but little is known about its direct read/write mechanisms. Here, we report cryogenic electron microscopy structures in which a p300/CREB-binding protein (CBP) multidomain monomer recognizes histone H4 N-terminal tail (NT) acetylation (ac) in a nucleosome and acetylates non-H4 histone NTs within the same nucleosome. p300/CBP not only recognized H4NTac via the bromodomain pocket responsible for reading, but also interacted with the DNA minor grooves via the outside of that pocket. This directed the catalytic center of p300/CBP to one of the non-H4 histone NTs. The primary target that p300 writes by reading H4NTac was H2BNT, and H2BNTac promoted H2A-H2B dissociation from the nucleosome. We propose a model in which p300/CBP replicates histone N-terminal tail acetylation within the H3-H4 tetramer to inherit epigenetic storage, and transcribes it from the H3-H4 tetramer to the H2B-H2A dimers to activate context-dependent gene transcription through local nucleosome destabilization.
PXD042431	37460898	Autophagy protein 5 controls flow-dependent endothelial functions. 	Autophagy protein 5 controls flow-dependent endothelial functions	ATG5, autophagosome, autophagy	Dysregulated autophagy is associated with cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, where impaired flow-mediated endothelial cell responses promote cardiovascular risk. The mechanism by which the autophagy machinery regulates endothelial functions is complex. We applied multi-omics approaches and in vitro and in vivo functional assays to decipher the diverse roles of autophagy in endothelial cells. We demonstrate that autophagy regulates VEGF-dependent VEGFR signaling and VEGFR-mediated and flow-mediated eNOS activation. Endothelial ATG5 deficiency in vivo results in selective loss of flow-induced vasodilation in mesenteric arteries and kidneys and increased cerebral and renal vascular resistance in vivo. We found a crucial pathophysiological role for autophagy in endothelial cells in flow-mediated outward arterial remodeling, prevention of neointima formation following wire injury, and recovery after myocardial infarction. Together, these findings unravel a fundamental role of autophagy in endothelial function, linking cell proteostasis to mechanosensing.
PXD038958	37462741	Evaluating the Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Chemotherapeutics within a Spatial SILAC-Labeled Spheroid Model System. 	Spatial SILAC Regorafenib Treated Bottom-up Proteomic Analysis	Regorafenib, Spatial SILAC, Spheroids	Tumors have considerable cellular heterogeneity that is impossible to explore with simple cell cultures. Spheroid cultures contain pathophysiological and chemical gradients similar to in vivo tumors and show complex responses to therapeutics, similar to a tumor. Using pulsed isotopic labels, we demonstrate the pronounced differential response of the proteome to the drug Regorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor, in HCT 116 spheroids. Regorafenib treatment of outer spheroids inhibits proteins involved in critical pathways such as mTOR signaling, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling, and colorectal cancer metastasis signaling, resulting in decreased proliferation and cellular apoptosis. By contrast, analysis of the treated core cells shows upregulation of MAPK1 and KRAS, possibly implicating drug resistance within these late apoptotic cells. Thus, pulsed isotopic labeling enables evaluation of the distinct proteomic responses for cells residing in the different chemical microenvironments of the spheroid. This platform promises great utility in assisting researchers' predictions of pharmacodynamic therapeutic responses within complex tumors.
PXD038203	37463068	Proteome-wide Profiling of Asymmetric Dimethylated Arginine in Human Breast Tumors. 	Deep Protein Arginine Asymmetric Di-Methylation Profiling of Breast Cancer Patient-derived Xenografts	ADMA, PDX, breast cancer	Arginine methylation catalyzed by protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) is a prevalent post-translational modification (PTM) that regulates diverse cellular processes. Aberrant expression of type I PRMTs that catalyze asymmetric arginine dimethylation (ADMA) is often found in cancer, though little is known about the ADMA status of substrate proteins in tumors. Using LC-MS/MS along with pan-specific ADMA antibodies, we performed global mapping of ADMA in five patient-derived xenograft (PDX) tumors representing different subtypes of human breast cancer. In total, 403 methylated sites from 213 proteins were identified, including 322 novel sites when compared to the PhosphositesPlus database. Moreover, using peptide arrays in vitro, approximately 70% of the putative substrates were validated to be methylated by PRMT1, PRMT4, and PRMT6. Notably, when compared with our previously identified ADMA sites from breast cancer cell lines, only 75 ADMA sites overlapped between cell lines and PDX tumors. Collectively, this study provides a useful resource for both PRMT and breast cancer communities for further exploitation of the functions of PRMT dysregulation during breast cancer progression.
PXD041524	37463329	A Rapid and Efficient Method for the Extraction of Histone Proteins. 	A rapid and efficient method for the extraction of histone proteins	FASP, Histone extratction, N-terminal clipping	Current protocols used to extract and purify histones are notoriously tedious, especially when using yeast cells. Here, we describe the use of a simple filter-aided sample preparation approach enabling histone extraction from yeast and mammalian cells using acidified ethanol, which not only improves extraction but also inactivates histone-modifying enzymes. We show that our improved method prevents N-terminal clipping of H3, an artifact frequently observed in yeast cells using standard histone extraction protocols. Our method is scalable and provides efficient recovery of histones when extracts are prepared from as few as two million yeast cells. We further demonstrate the application of this approach for the analysis of histone modifications in fungal clinical isolates available in a limited quantity. Compared with standard protocols, our method enables the study of histones and their modifications in a faster, simpler, and more robust manner.
PXD035378	37463446	Inhibition of DPAGT1 suppresses HER2 shedding and trastuzumab resistance in human breast cancer. 	Identification of ADAM10 interactors and N-glycosylation sites in SK-BR-3 cells	ADAM10, SK-BR-3	Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-targeted (HER2-targeted) therapy is the mainstay of treatment for HER2+ breast cancer. However, the proteolytic cleavage of HER2, or HER2 shedding, induces the release of the target epitope at the ectodomain (ECD) and the generation of a constitutively active intracellular fragment (p95HER2), impeding the effectiveness of anti-HER2 therapy. Therefore, identifying key regulators in HER2 shedding might provide promising targetable vulnerabilities against resistance. In the current study, we found that upregulation of dolichyl-phosphate N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (DPAGT1) sustained high-level HER2 shedding to confer trastuzumab resistance, which was associated with poor clinical outcomes. Upon trastuzumab treatment, the membrane-bound DPAGT1 protein was endocytosed via the caveolae pathway and retrogradely transported to the ER, where DPAGT1 induced N-glycosylation of the sheddase - ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10 (ADAM10) - to ensure its expression, maturation, and activation. N-glycosylation of ADAM10 at N267 protected itself from ER-associated protein degradation and was essential for DPAGT1-mediated HER2 shedding and trastuzumab resistance. Importantly, inhibition of DPAGT1 with tunicamycin acted synergistically with trastuzumab treatment to block HER2 signaling and reverse resistance. These findings reveal a prominent mechanism for HER2 shedding and suggest that targeting DPAGT1 might be a promising strategy against trastuzumab-resistant breast cancer.
PXD041032	37463656	Identification of PP2A-B55 targets uncovers regulation of emerin during nuclear envelope reassembly in Drosophila. 	Identification of PP2A-B55 targets in Drosophila uncovers regulation of Emerin during nuclear envelope reassembly	BAF, Emerin, Lamin, Mitosis, Mitotic exit, Nuclear Envelope, Otefin, PP2A	Mitotic exit requires the dephosphorylation of many proteins whose phosphorylation was needed for mitosis. Protein phosphatase 2A with its B55 regulatory subunit (PP2A-B55) promotes this transition. However, the events and substrates that it regulates are incompletely understood. We used proteomic approaches in Drosophila to identify proteins that interact with and are dephosphorylated by PP2A-B55. Among several candidates, we identified emerin (otefin in Drosophila). Emerin resides in the inner nuclear membrane and interacts with the DNA-binding protein barrier-to-autointegration factor (BAF) via a LEM domain. We found that the phosphorylation of emerin at Ser50 and Ser54 near its LEM domain negatively regulates its association with BAF, lamin and additional emerin in mitosis. We show that dephosphorylation of emerin at these sites by PP2A-B55 determines the timing of nuclear envelope reformation. Genetic experiments indicate that this regulation is required during embryonic development. Phosphoregulation of the emerin-BAF complex formation by PP2A-B55 appears as a key event of mitotic exit that is likely conserved across species.
PXD035661	37463936	Regulation of Rad52-dependent replication fork recovery through serine ADP-ribosylation of PolD3. 	Regulation of Rad52-dependent replication fork recovery through serine ADP-ribosylation of PolD3	ADP-ribosylation, ADP-ribosyltransferases, ADPr, Af1521, DNA repair, DNA replication, Lumos, PARPs	Although Poly(ADP-ribose)-polymerases (PARPs) are key regulators of genome stability, how site-specific ADP-ribosylation regulates DNA repair is unclear. Here, we describe a novel role for PARP1 and PARP2 in regulating Rad52-dependent replication fork repair to maintain cell viability when homologous recombination is dysfunctional, suppress replication-associated DNA damage, and maintain genome stability. Mechanistically, Mre11 and ATM are required for induction of PARP activity in response to replication stress that in turn promotes break-induced replication (BIR) through assembly of Rad52 at stalled/damaged replication forks. Further, by mapping ADP-ribosylation sites induced upon replication stress, we identify that PolD3 is a target for PARP1/PARP2 and that its site-specific ADP-ribosylation is required for BIR activity, replication fork recovery and genome stability. Overall, these data identify a critical role for Mre11-dependent PARP activation and site-specific ADP-ribosylation in regulating BIR to maintain genome integrity during DNA synthesis.
PXD041674	37466164	Determining DNA-Protein Binding Affinities and Specificities from Crude Lysates Using a Combined SILAC/TMT Labeling Strategy. 	Determining DNA-protein binding affinities and specificities from crude lysates using a combined SILAC/TMT labeling strategy	DNA pulldowns, PAQMAN, SILAC, TMT	In recent years, quantitative mass spectrometry-based interaction proteomics technology has proven very useful in identifying specific DNA-protein interactions using single pull-downs from crude lysates. Here, we applied a SILAC/TMT-based higher-order multiplexing approach to develop an interaction proteomics workflow called Protein-nucleic acid Affinity and Specificity quantification by MAss spectrometry in Nuclear extracts or PASMAN. In PASMAN, DNA pull-downs using a concentration range of specific and control DNA baits are performed in SILAC-labeled nuclear extracts. MS(1)-based quantification to determine specific DNA-protein interactions is then combined with sequential TMT-based quantification of fragmented SILAC peptides, allowing the generation of Hill-like curves and determination of apparent binding affinities. We benchmarked PASMAN using the SP/KLF motif and further applied it to gain insights into two CGCG-containing consensus DNA motifs. These motifs are recognized by two BEN domain-containing proteins, BANP and BEND3, which we find to interact with these motifs with distinct affinities. Finally, we profiled the BEND3 proximal proteome, revealing the NuRD complex as the major BEND3 proximal protein complex in vivo. In summary, PASMAN represents, to our knowledge, the first higher-order multiplexing-based interaction proteomics method that can be used to decipher specific DNA-protein interactions and their apparent affinities in various biological and pathological contexts.
PXD038123	37468549	CAMK2D serves as a molecular scaffold for RNF8-MAD2 complex to induce mitotic checkpoint in glioma. 	CAMK2D recruits RNF8-MAD2 complex to RNA splicing proteins for mitotic checkpoint activation in GBM	BioID, RNF8, glioblastoma, interactome	MAD2 is a spindle assembly checkpoint protein that participates in the formation of mitotic checkpoint complex, which blocks mitotic progression. RNF8, an established DNA damage response protein, has been implicated in mitotic checkpoint regulation but its exact role remains poorly understood. Here, RNF8 proximity proteomics uncovered a role of RNF8-MAD2 in generating the mitotic checkpoint signal. Specifically, RNF8 competes with a small pool of p31(comet) for binding to the closed conformer of MAD2 via its RING domain, while CAMK2D serves as a molecular scaffold to concentrate the RNF8-MAD2 complex via transient/weak interactions between its p-Thr287 and RNF8's FHA domain. Accordingly, RNF8 overexpression impairs glioma stem cell (GSC) mitotic progression in a FHA- and RING-dependent manner. Importantly, low RNF8 expression correlates with inferior glioma outcome and RNF8 overexpression impedes GSC tumorigenicity. Last, we identify PLK1 inhibitor that mimics RNF8 overexpression using a chemical biology approach, and demonstrate a PLK1/HSP90 inhibitor combination that synergistically reduces GSC proliferation and stemness. Thus, our study has unveiled a previously unrecognized CAMK2D-RNF8-MAD2 complex in regulating mitotic checkpoint with relevance to gliomas, which is therapeutically targetable.
PXD043358	37469435	Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of Mangifera indica in response to Xanthomonas critis pv. mangiferaeindicae. 	proteomic analyses of Mangifera indica L. in response to Xanthomonas critis pv. mangiferaeindicae	Mango bacterial leaf spot	Mango is an important tropical fruit with the reputation of "Tropical Fruit King." It is widely cultivated in tropical and subtropical regions. Mango bacterial leaf spot, which is caused by Xanthomonas critis pv. mangiferaeindicae (Xcm), poses a great threat to the development of mango planting industry. In this study, we used RNA sequencing and data-independent acquisition techniques to compare the transcriptome and proteome of the highly resistant cultivar "Renong No.1" (RN) and the highly susceptible cultivar "Keitt" (KT) in response to Xcm infection at different stages (0, 2, and 6 days). A total of 14,397 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the transcriptome of the two varieties, and 4,400 and 8,926 genes were differentially expressed in RN and KT, respectively. Among them, 217 DEGs were related to plant hormone signaling pathway, and 202 were involved in the maintenance of cellular redox homeostasis. A total of 3,438 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the proteome of the two varieties. Exactly 1,542 and 1,700 DEPs were detected in RN and KT, respectively. In addition, 39 DEPs were related to plant hormone signaling pathway, whereas 68 were involved in the maintenance of cellular redox homeostasis. Through cross-validation of the two omics, 1,470 genes were found to be expressed in both groups, and a large number of glutathione metabolism-related genes, such as HSP26-A, G6PD4, and GPX2, were up-regulated in both omics. Peroxisome-related genes, such as LACS6, LACS9, PED1, GLO4, and HACL, were up-regulated or down-regulated in both omics. ABCB11, SAPK2, MYC2, TAG7, PYL1, and other genes related to indole-3-acetic acid and abscisic acid signal transduction and plant-pathogen interaction were up-regulated or down-regulated in both omics. We also used weighted gene co-expression network analysis to combine physiological and biochemical data (superoxide dismutase and catalase activity changes) with transcriptome and proteome data and finally identified three hub genes/proteins (SAG113, SRK2A, and ABCB1) that play an important role in plant hormone signal transduction. This work was the first study of gene/protein changes in resistant and susceptible mango varieties, and its results improved our understanding of the molecular mechanism of mango resistance to Xcm.
PXD043031	37470704	Inhibition of DNMT1 methyltransferase activity via glucose-regulated O-GlcNAcylation alters the epigenome. 	Inhibition of DNMT1 methyltransferase activity via glucose-regulated O-GlcNAcylation alters the epigenome	Epigenetics, Hyperglycemia, Metabolism, O-GlcNAcylation	The DNA methyltransferase activity of DNMT1 is vital for genomic maintenance of DNA methylation. We report here that DNMT1 function is regulated by O-GlcNAcylation, a protein modification that is sensitive to glucose levels, and that elevated O-GlcNAcylation of DNMT1 from high glucose environment leads to alterations to the epigenome. Using mass spectrometry and complementary alanine mutation experiments, we identified S878 as the major residue that is O-GlcNAcylated on human DNMT1. Functional studies in human and mouse cells further revealed that O-GlcNAcylation of DNMT1-S878 results in an inhibition of methyltransferase activity, resulting in a general loss of DNA methylation that preferentially occurs at partially methylated domains (PMDs). This loss of methylation corresponds with an increase in DNA damage and apoptosis. These results establish O-GlcNAcylation of DNMT1 as a mechanism through which the epigenome is regulated by glucose metabolism and implicates a role for glycosylation of DNMT1 in metabolic diseases characterized by hyperglycemia.
PXD037175	37471650	Contemporary human H3N2 influenza A viruses require a low threshold of suitable glycan receptors for efficient infection. 	Glycoengineering of hCK and MDCK for influenza A virus propagation	glycosylation, influenza	Recent human H3N2 influenza A viruses have evolved to employ elongated glycans terminating in alpha2,6-linked sialic acid as their receptors. These glycans are displayed in low abundancies by (humanized) Madin-Darby Canine Kidney cells, which are commonly employed to propagate influenza A virus, resulting in low or no viral propagation. Here, we examined whether the overexpression of the glycosyltransferases beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase and beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 1, which are responsible for the elongation of poly-N-acetyllactosamines (LacNAcs), would result in improved A/H3N2 propagation. Stable overexpression of beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase and beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 1 in Madin-Darby Canine Kidney and "humanized" Madin-Darby Canine Kidney cells was achieved by lentiviral integration and subsequent antibiotic selection and confirmed by qPCR and protein mass spectrometry experiments. Flow cytometry and glycan mass spectrometry experiments using the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase and/or beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 1 knock-in cells demonstrated increased binding of viral hemagglutinins and the presence of a larger number of LacNAc repeating units, especially on "humanized" Madin-Darby Canine Kidney-beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase cells. An increase in the number of glycan receptors did, however, not result in a greater infection efficiency of recent human H3N2 viruses. Based on these results, we propose that H3N2 influenza A viruses require a low number of suitable glycan receptors to infect cells and that an increase in the glycan receptor display above this threshold does not result in improved infection efficiency.
PXD040883	37474491	Comprehensive serum N-glycan profiling identifies a biomarker panel for early diagnosis of non-small-cell lung cancer. 	Profiling of Serum N-glycosylation in Non-small-cell Lung Cancer	Lung, MALDI-TOF-MS, Serum	Aberrant serum N-glycan profiles have been observed in multiple cancers including non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet the potential of N-glycans in the early diagnosis of NSCLC remains to be determined. In this study, serum N-glycan profiles of 275 NSCLC patients and 309 healthy controls were characterized by MALDI-TOF-MS. The levels of serum N-glycans and N-glycosylation patterns were compared between NSCLC and control groups. In addition, a panel of N-glycan biomarkers for NSCLC diagnosis was established and validated using machine learning algorithms. As a result, a total of 54 N-glycan structures were identified in human serum. Compared with healthy controls, 29 serum N-glycans were increased or decreased in NSCLC patients. N-glycan abundance in different histological types or clinical stages of NSCLC presented differentiated changes. Furthermore, an optimal biomarker panel of eight N-glycans was constructed based on logistic regression, with an AUC of 0.86 in the validation set. Notably, this model also showed a desirable capacity in distinguishing early-stage patients from healthy controls (AUC = 0.88). In conclusion, our work highlights the abnormal N-glycan profiles in NSCLC and provides supports potential application of N-glycan biomarker panel in clinical NSCLC detection.
PXD042977	37474525	Multi-omics analysis of human mesenchymal stem cells shows cell aging that alters immunomodulatory activity through the downregulation of PD-L1. 	The proteome data of extracellular vesicles derived from human umbilical cord and bone marrow  mesenchymal stem cells	mesenchymal stem cell, senescence	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) possess potent immunomodulatory activity and have been extensively investigated for their therapeutic potential in treating inflammatory disorders. However, the mechanisms underlying the immunosuppressive function of MSCs are not fully understood, hindering the development of standardized MSC-based therapies for clinical use. In this study, we profile the single-cell transcriptomes of MSCs isolated from adipose tissue (AD), bone marrow (BM), placental chorionic membrane (PM), and umbilical cord (UC). Our results demonstrate that MSCs undergo a progressive aging process and that the cellular senescence state influences their immunosuppressive activity by downregulating PD-L1 expression. Through integrated analysis of single-cell transcriptomic and proteomic data, we identify GATA2 as a regulator of MSC senescence and PD-L1 expression. Overall, our findings highlight the roles of cell aging and PD-L1 expression in modulating the immunosuppressive efficacy of MSCs and implicating perinatal MSC therapy for clinical applications in inflammatory disorders.
PXD042798	37474590	Differences in proteome perturbations caused by the Wolbachia strain wAu suggest multiple mechanisms of Wolbachia-mediated antiviral activity. 	Wolbachia strains differ in arbovirus inhibition mechanisms in Aedes mosquitoes	Aedes aegypti, DENV, Wolbachia, ZIKV, arbovirus, cyclodextrin, midgut, mosquito, wAlbA, wAu, wMel	Some strains of the inherited bacterium Wolbachia have been shown to be effective at reducing the transmission of dengue virus (DENV) and other RNA viruses by Aedes aegypti in both laboratory and field settings and are being deployed for DENV control. The degree of virus inhibition varies between Wolbachia strains. Density and tissue tropism can contribute to these differences but there are also indications that this is not the only factor involved: for example, strains wAu and wAlbA are maintained at similar intracellular densities but only wAu produces strong DENV inhibition. We previously reported perturbations in lipid transport dynamics, including sequestration of cholesterol in lipid droplets, with strains wMel/wMelPop in Ae. aegypti. To further investigate the cellular basis underlying these differences, proteomic analysis of midguts was carried out on Ae. aegypti lines carrying strains wAu and wAlbA: with the hypothesis that differences in perturbations may underline Wolbachia-mediated antiviral activity. Surprisingly, wAu-carrying midguts not only showed distinct proteome perturbations when compared to non-Wolbachia carrying and wAlbA-carrying midguts but also wMel-carrying midguts. There are changes in RNA processing pathways and upregulation of a specific set of RNA-binding proteins in the wAu-carrying line, including genes with known antiviral activity. Lipid transport and metabolism proteome changes also differ between strains, and we show that strain wAu does not produce the same cholesterol sequestration phenotype as wMel. Moreover, in contrast to wMel, wAu antiviral activity was not rescued by cyclodextrin treatment. Together these results suggest that wAu could show unique features in its inhibition of arboviruses compared to previously characterized Wolbachia strains.
PXD042759	37474963	Characterizing the urinary proteome of prematurity-associated lung disease in school-aged children. 	Respiratory Health Outcomes in Neonates (RHiNO) Study Urine Proteomics	tagged, urine	INTRODUCTION: Although different phenotypes of lung disease after preterm birth have recently been described, the underlying mechanisms associated with each phenotype are poorly understood. We, therefore, compared the urinary proteome for different spirometry phenotypes in preterm-born children with preterm- and term-born controls. METHODS: Preterm and term-born children aged 7-12 years, from the Respiratory Health Outcomes in Neonates (RHiNO) cohort, underwent spirometry and urine collection. Urine was analysed by Nano-LC Mass-Spectrometry with Tandem-Mass Tag labelling. The preterm-born children were classified into phenotypes of prematurity-associated preserved ratio impaired spirometry (pPRISm, FEV1 < lower limit of normal (LLN), FEV1/FVC >= LLN), prematurity-associated obstructive lung disease (POLD, FEV1 < LLN, FEV1/FVC < LLN) and preterm controls (FEV1 >= LLN,). Biological relationships between significantly altered protein abundances were analysed using Ingenuity Pathways Analysis software, and receiver operator characteristic curves were calculated. RESULTS: Urine was analysed from 160 preterm-born children and 44 term controls. 27 and 21 were classified into the pPRISm and POLD groups, respectively. A total of 785 proteins were detected. Compared to preterm-born controls, sixteen significantly altered proteins in the pPRISm group were linked to six biological processes related to upregulation of inflammation and T-cell biology. In contrast, four significantly altered proteins in the POLD group were linked with neutrophil accumulation. Four proteins (DNASE1, PGLYRP1, B2M, SERPINA3) in combination had an area under the curve of 0.73 for pPRISm and three combined proteins (S100A8, MMP9 and CTSC) had AUC of 0.76 for POLD. CONCLUSIONS: In this exploratory study, we demonstrate differential associations of the urinary proteome with pPRISm and POLD. TRIAL REGISTRATION: EudraCT: 2015-003712-20.
PXD034614	37475188	RIPK3-MLKL necroptotic signalling amplifies STING pathway and exacerbates lethal sepsis. 	Proteome profiling of intestine under DMXAA stimuli	DMXAA	BACKGROUNDS: The stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is an important driver in various inflammatory diseases. METHODS AND RESULTS: Here, we have demonstrated that inhibition of RIPK3 and MLKL dampens STING signaling, indicating that necroptosis may be involved in sustaining STING signaling. Furthermore, RIPK3 knockout in HT-29 cells significantly suppressed STING signaling. Mechanistically, RIPK3 inhibits autophagic flux during STING activation. RIPK3 knockout inhibits STING signaling by intensifying STING autophagy. In contrast, MLKL regulates the STING pathway bidirectionally. MLKL deficiency enhances STING signaling, whereas suppression of MLKL-mediated pore formation restricts STING signaling. Mechanistically, upon abrogating the pro-necroptotic activity of MLKL, MLKL bound to activated STING is secreted to the extracellular space, where it restricts TBK1 and IRF3 recruitment. Targeting necroptotic signaling ameliorates STING activation during DMXAA-induced intestinal injury and sepsis. CONCLUSIONS: These findings elucidate molecular mechanisms linking necroptosis to the STING pathway, and suggest a potential benefit of therapeutic targeting of necroptosis in STING-driven inflammatory diseases.
PXD043047	37475705	Therapeutic Effects of Valeriana jatamansi on Ulcerative Colitis: Insights into Mechanisms of Action through Metabolomics and Microbiome Analysis. 	Therapeutic Effects of Valeriana jatamansi on Ulcerative Colitis: Insights into Mechanisms of Action through Metabolomics and Microbiome Analysis	Valeriana jatamansi, correlation analysis, gut microbiota, metabolites, ulcerative colitis	Ulcerative colitis (UC), belonging to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is a chronic and relapsing inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract, which has not been completely cured in patients so far. Valeriana jatamansi is a Chinese medicine used clinically to treat "diarrhea," which is closely related to UC. This study was to elucidate the therapeutic effects of V. jatamansi extract (VJE) on dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced UC in mice and its underlying mechanism. In this work, VJE effectively ameliorates the symptoms and histopathological scores and reduces the production of inflammatory factors in UC mice. The colon untargeted metabolomics analysis and 16S rDNA sequencing showed remarkable differences in colon metabolite profiles and intestinal microbiome composition between the control and DSS groups, and VJE intervention can reduce these differences. Thirty-two biomarkers were found and modulated the primary pathways including pyrimidine metabolism, arginine biosynthesis, and glutathione metabolism. Meanwhile, twelve significant taxa of gut microbiota were found. Moreover, there is a close relationship between endogenous metabolites and intestinal flora. These findings suggested that VJE ameliorates UC by inhibiting inflammatory factors, recovering intestinal maladjustment, and regulating the interaction between intestinal microbiota and host metabolites. Therefore, the intervention of V. jatamansi is a potential therapeutic treatment for UC.
PXD033788	37475862	Multi-omics analyses of glucose metabolic reprogramming in colorectal cancer. 	Proteomics and liquid biopsy characterization of human EMT-related metastasis in colorectal cancer	COL6A1, Epithelial-mesenchymal transition, Liquid biopsy, mCRC	Background: Glucose metabolic reprogramming (GMR) is a cardinal feature of carcinogenesis and metastasis. However, the underlying mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. The aim of this study was to profile the metabolic signature of primary tumor and circulating tumor cells from metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients using integrated omics analysis. Methods: PET-CT imaging, serum metabolomics, genomics and proteomics data of 325 high 18F-fluorinated deoxyglucose (FDGhigh) mCRC patients were analyzed. The para-tumor, primary tumor and liver metastatic tissues of mCRC patients were used for proteomics analysis. Results: The glucose uptake in tumor tissues as per the PET/CT images was correlated to serum levels of glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (ALT), total bilirubin (TBIL), creatinine (CRE). Proteomics analysis indicated that several differentially expressed proteins were enriched in both GMR and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related pathways. Using a tissue-optimized proteomic workflow, we identified novel proteomic markers (e.g. CCND1, EPCAM, RPS6), a novel PCK1-CDK6-INSR protein axis, and a potential role for FOLR (FR) in GMR/EMT of CRC cells. Finally, CEA/blood glucose (CSR) was defined as a new index, which can be used to jointly diagnose liver metastasis of colorectal cancer. Conclusions: GMR in CRC cells is closely associated with the EMT pathway, and this network is a promising source of potential therapeutic targets.
PXD041560	37476844	Age-associated reduction of nuclear shape dynamics in excitatory neurons of the visual cortex. 	Nuclear proteome of cortical neurons of young and aged mice	Nucleus, aging, neuron	Neurons decline in their functionality over time, and age-related neuronal alterations are associated with phenotypes of neurodegenerative diseases. In nonneural tissues, an infolded nuclear shape has been proposed as a hallmark of aged cells and neurons with infolded nuclei have also been reported to be associated with neuronal activity. Here, we performed time-lapse imaging in the visual cortex of Nex-Cre;SUN1-GFP mice. Nuclear infolding was observed within 10 min of stimulation in young nuclei, while the aged nuclei were already infolded pre-stimulation and showed reduced dynamics of the morphology. In young nuclei, the depletion of the stimuli restored the nucleus to a spherical shape and reduced the dynamic behavior, suggesting that nuclear infolding is a reversible process. We also found the aged nucleus to be stiffer than the young one, further relating to the age-associated loss of nuclear shape dynamics. We reveal temporal changes in the nuclear shape upon external stimulation and observe that these morphological dynamics decrease with age.
PXD026217	37477096	System-wide optimization of an orthogonal translation system with enhanced biological tolerance. 	OTS Development and E. coli Proteome LC-MSMS	MS reporter, OTS	Over the past two decades, synthetic biological systems have revolutionized the study of cellular physiology. The ability to site-specifically incorporate biologically relevant non-standard amino acids using orthogonal translation systems (OTSs) has proven particularly useful, providing unparalleled access to cellular mechanisms modulated by post-translational modifications, such as protein phosphorylation. However, despite significant advances in OTS design and function, the systems-level biology of OTS development and utilization remains underexplored. In this study, we employ a phosphoserine OTS (pSerOTS) as a model to systematically investigate global interactions between OTS components and the cellular environment, aiming to improve OTS performance. Based on this analysis, we design OTS variants to enhance orthogonality by minimizing host process interactions and reducing stress response activation. Our findings advance understanding of system-wide OTS:host interactions, enabling informed design practices that circumvent deleterious interactions with host physiology while improving OTS performance and stability. Furthermore, our study emphasizes the importance of establishing a pipeline for systematically profiling OTS:host interactions to enhance orthogonality and mitigate mechanisms underlying OTS-mediated host toxicity.
PXD035461	37478155	Stromal Interaction Molecule 1 Maintains beta-Cell Identity and Function in Female Mice Through Preservation of G-Protein-Coupled Estrogen Receptor 1 Signaling. 	Stromal Interaction Molecule 1 Maintains Beta Cell Identity and Function in Female Mice through Preservation of G Protein-Coupled Estrogen Receptor 1 Signaling	Beta cell, G protein-coupled estrogen receptor, STIM1, calcium, diabetes, estradiol, store-operated calcium entry	Altered endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca2+ signaling has been linked with beta-cell dysfunction and diabetes development. Store-operated Ca2+ entry replenishes ER Ca2+ through reversible gating of plasma membrane Ca2+ channels by the ER Ca2+ sensor, stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1). For characterization of the in vivo impact of STIM1 loss, mice with beta-cell-specific STIM1 deletion (STIM1Deltabeta mice) were generated and challenged with high-fat diet. Interestingly, beta-cell dysfunction was observed in female, but not male, mice. Female STIM1Deltabeta mice displayed reductions in beta-cell mass, a concomitant increase in alpha-cell mass, and reduced expression of markers of beta-cell maturity, including MafA and UCN3. Consistent with these findings, STIM1 expression was inversely correlated with HbA1c levels in islets from female, but not male, human organ donors. Mechanistic assays demonstrated that the sexually dimorphic phenotype observed in STIM1Deltabeta mice was due, in part, to loss of signaling through the noncanonical 17-beta estradiol receptor (GPER1), as GPER1 knockdown and inhibition led to a similar loss of expression of beta-cell maturity genes in INS-1 cells. Together, these data suggest that STIM1 orchestrates pancreatic beta-cell function and identity through GPER1-mediated estradiol signaling. ARTICLE HIGHLIGHTS: Store-operated Ca2+ entry replenishes endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca2+ through reversible gating of plasma membrane Ca2+ channels by the ER Ca2+ sensor, stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1). beta-Cell-specific deletion of STIM1 results in a sexually dimorphic phenotype, with beta-cell dysfunction and loss of identity in female but not male mice. Expression of the noncanonical 17-beta estradiol receptor (GPER1) is decreased in islets of female STIM1Deltabeta mice, and modulation of GPER1 levels leads to alterations in expression of beta-cell maturity genes in INS-1 cells.
PXD041033	37478161	USP1 Expression Driven by EWS::FLI1 Transcription Factor Stabilizes Survivin and Mitigates Replication Stress in Ewing Sarcoma. 	USP1 expression driven by EWS-FLI1 transcription factor stabilizes Survivin and promotes Ewing sarcoma cell survival	EWS-FLI1, Survivin, USP1	In this study, we identify USP1 as a transcriptional target of EWS::FLI1 and demonstrate the requisite function of USP1 in Ewing sarcoma (EWS) cell survival in response to endogenous replication stress. EWS::FLI1 oncogenic transcription factor drives most EWS, a pediatric bone cancer. EWS cells display elevated levels of R-loops and replication stress. The mechanism by which EWS cells override activation of apoptosis or cellular senescence in response to increased replication stress is not known. We show that USP1 is overexpressed in EWS and EWS::FLI1 regulates USP1 transcript levels. USP1 knockdown or inhibition arrests EWS cell growth and induces cell death by apoptosis. Mechanistically, USP1 regulates Survivin (BIRC5/API4) protein stability and the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3/7 in response to endogenous replication stress. Notably, USP1 inhibition sensitizes cells to doxorubicin and etoposide treatment. Together, our study demonstrates that USP1 is regulated by EWS::FLI1, the USP1-Survivin axis promotes EWS cell survival, and USP1 inhibition sensitizes cells to standard of care chemotherapy. IMPLICATIONS: High USP1 and replication stress levels driven by EWS::FLI1 transcription factor in EWS are vulnerabilities that can be exploited to improve existing treatment avenues and overcome drug resistance.
PXD041053	37478845	A lncRNA from the FTO locus acts as a suppressor of the m(6)A writer complex and p53 tumor suppression signaling. 	A lncRNA from the FTO locus acts as an inhibitor of the m6A writer complex and p53 tumor suppression signaling	FTO-IT1, prostate cancer	N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) of mRNAs modulated by the METTL3-METTL14-WTAP-RBM15 methyltransferase complex and m(6)A demethylases such as FTO play important roles in regulating mRNA stability, splicing, and translation. Here, we demonstrate that FTO-IT1 long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) was upregulated and positively correlated with poor survival of patients with wild-type p53-expressing prostate cancer (PCa). m(6)A RIP-seq analysis revealed that FTO-IT1 knockout increased mRNA m(6)A methylation of a subset of p53 transcriptional target genes (e.g., FAS, TP53INP1, and SESN2) and induced PCa cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. We further showed that FTO-IT1 directly binds RBM15 and inhibits RBM15 binding, m(6)A methylation, and stability of p53 target mRNAs. Therapeutic depletion of FTO-IT1 restored mRNA m(6)A level and expression of p53 target genes and inhibited PCa growth in mice. Our study identifies FTO-IT1 lncRNA as a bona fide suppressor of the m(6)A methyltransferase complex and p53 tumor suppression signaling and nominates FTO-IT1 as a potential therapeutic target of cancer.
PXD036797	37478858	S-Nitrosylation-mediated dysfunction of TCA cycle enzymes in synucleinopathy studied in postmortem human brains and hiPSC-derived neurons. 	S-Nitrosylation-mediated dysfunction of TCA cycle enzymes in synucleinopathy studied in postmortem human brains and hiPSC-derived neurons	S-Nitrosylation, TCA cycle, alpha-synuclein, mitochondrial dysfunction	A causal relationship between mitochondrial metabolic dysfunction and neurodegeneration has been implicated in synucleinopathies, including Parkinson disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD), but underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, using human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived neurons with mutation in the gene encoding alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn), we report the presence of aberrantly S-nitrosylated proteins, including tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle enzymes, resulting in activity inhibition assessed by carbon-labeled metabolic flux experiments. This inhibition principally affects alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase/succinyl coenzyme-A synthetase, metabolizing alpha-ketoglutarate to succinate. Notably, human LBD brain manifests a similar pattern of aberrantly S-nitrosylated TCA enzymes, indicating the pathophysiological relevance of these results. Inhibition of mitochondrial energy metabolism in neurons is known to compromise dendritic length and synaptic integrity, eventually leading to neuronal cell death. Our evidence indicates that aberrant S-nitrosylation of TCA cycle enzymes contributes to this bioenergetic failure.
PXD041519	37478862	Orphan quality control shapes network dynamics and gene expression. 	Orphan quality control shapes network dynamics and gene expression	DSSO, MYC, UBR5, crosslinking, orphan quality control, proteasome, ubiquitin	All eukaryotes require intricate protein networks to translate developmental signals into accurate cell fate decisions. Mutations that disturb interactions between network components often result in disease, but how the composition and dynamics of complex networks are established remains poorly understood. Here, we identify the E3 ligase UBR5 as a signaling hub that helps degrade unpaired subunits of multiple transcriptional regulators that act within a network centered on the c-Myc oncoprotein. Biochemical and structural analyses show that UBR5 binds motifs that only become available upon complex dissociation. By rapidly turning over unpaired transcription factor subunits, UBR5 establishes dynamic interactions between transcriptional regulators that allow cells to effectively execute gene expression while remaining receptive to environmental signals. We conclude that orphan quality control plays an essential role in establishing dynamic protein networks, which may explain the conserved need for protein degradation during transcription and offers opportunities to modulate gene expression in disease.
PXD046778	37479494	Ablation of integrin-mediated cell-collagen communication alleviates fibrosis. 	Ablation of integrin-mediated cell-collagen communication alleviates fibrosis	TMT, fibrisis, integrin	OBJECTIVES: Activation of fibroblasts is a hallmark of fibrotic processes. Besides cytokines and growth factors, fibroblasts are regulated by the extracellular matrix environment through receptors such as integrins, which transduce biochemical and mechanical signals enabling cells to mount appropriate responses according to biological demands. The aim of this work was to investigate the in vivo role of collagen-fibroblast interactions for regulating fibroblast functions and fibrosis. METHODS: Triple knockout (tKO) mice with a combined ablation of integrins alpha1beta1, alpha2beta1 and alpha11beta1 were created to address the significance of integrin-mediated cell-collagen communication. Properties of primary dermal fibroblasts lacking collagen-binding integrins were delineated in vitro. Response of the tKO mice skin to bleomycin induced fibrotic challenge was assessed. RESULTS: Triple integrin-deficient mice develop normally, are transiently smaller and reveal mild alterations in mechanoresilience of the skin. Fibroblasts from these mice in culture show defects in cytoskeletal architecture, traction stress generation, matrix production and organisation. Ablation of the three integrins leads to increased levels of discoidin domain receptor 2, an alternative receptor recognising collagens in vivo and in vitro. However, this overexpression fails to compensate adhesion and spreading defects on collagen substrates in vitro. Mice lacking collagen-binding integrins show a severely attenuated fibrotic response with impaired mechanotransduction, reduced collagen production and matrix organisation. CONCLUSIONS: The data provide evidence for a crucial role of collagen-binding integrins in fibroblast force generation and differentiation in vitro and for matrix deposition and tissue remodelling in vivo. Targeting fibroblast-collagen interactions might represent a promising therapeutic approach to regulate connective tissue deposition in fibrotic diseases.
PXD042325	37480072	N-glycosylation acts as a switch for FGFR1 trafficking between the plasma membrane and nuclear envelope. 	N-glycosylation acts as a switch for FGFR1 trafficking between the plasma membrane and the nuclear envelope	FGFR1, Glycosylation, label-free, nucleus, signaling, trafficking	Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) is a heavily N-glycosylated cell surface receptor tyrosine kinase that transmits signals across the plasma membrane, in response to fibroblast growth factors (FGFs). Balanced FGF/FGFR1 signaling is crucial for the development and homeostasis of the human body, and aberrant FGFR1 is frequently observed in various cancers. In addition to its predominant localization to the plasma membrane, FGFR1 has also been detected inside cells, mainly in the nuclear lumen, where it modulates gene expression. However, the exact mechanism of FGFR1 nuclear transport is still unknown. In this study, we generated a glycosylation-free mutant of FGFR1, FGFR1.GF, and demonstrated that it is localized primarily to the nuclear envelope. We show that reintroducing N-glycans into the D3 domain cannot redirect FGFR1 to the plasma membrane or exclude the receptor from the nuclear envelope. Reestablishment of D2 domain N-glycans largely inhibits FGFR1 accumulation in the nuclear envelope, but the receptor continues to accumulate inside the cell, mainly in the ER. Only the simultaneous presence of N-glycans of the D2 and D3 domains of FGFR1 promotes efficient transport of FGFR1 to the plasma membrane. We demonstrate that while disturbed FGFR1 folding results in partial FGFR1 accumulation in the ER, impaired FGFR1 secretion drives FGFR1 trafficking to the nuclear envelope. Intracellular FGFR1.GF displays a high level of autoactivation, suggesting the presence of nuclear FGFR1 signaling, which is independent of FGF. Using mass spectrometry and proximity ligation assay, we identified novel binding partners of the nuclear envelope-localized FGFR1, providing insights into its cellular functions. Collectively, our data define N-glycosylation of FGFR1 as an important regulator of FGFR1 kinase activity and, most importantly, as a switchable signal for FGFR1 trafficking between the nuclear envelope and plasma membrane, which, due to spatial restrictions, shapes FGFR1 interactome and cellular function. Video Abstract.
PXD036989	37480075	Jellyfish detritus supports niche partitioning and metabolic interactions among pelagic marine bacteria. 	jellyfish detritus degrading microbiome	detritus, exoproteomics, jellyfish, metagenomics, metaproteomics, microbes	BACKGROUND: Jellyfish blooms represent a significant but largely overlooked source of labile organic matter (jelly-OM) in the ocean, characterized by a high protein content. Decaying jellyfish are important carriers for carbon export to the ocean's interior. To accurately incorporate them into biogeochemical models, the interactions between microbes and jelly-OM have yet to be fully characterized. We conducted jelly-OM enrichment experiments in microcosms to simulate the scenario experienced by the coastal pelagic microbiome after the decay of a jellyfish bloom. We combined metagenomics, endo- and exo-metaproteomic approaches to obtain a mechanistic understanding on the metabolic network operated by the jelly-OM degrading bacterial consortium. RESULTS: Our analysis revealed that OM released during the decay of jellyfish blooms triggers a rapid shuffling of the taxonomic and functional profile of the pelagic bacterial community, resulting in a significant enrichment of protein/amino acid catabolism-related enzymes in the jelly-OM degrading community dominated by Pseudoalteromonadaceae, Alteromonadaceae and Vibrionaceae, compared to unamended control treatments. In accordance with the proteinaceous character of jelly-OM, Pseudoalteromonadaceae synthesized and excreted enzymes associated with proteolysis, while Alteromonadaceae contributed to extracellular hydrolysis of complex carbohydrates and organophosphorus compounds. In contrast, Vibrionaceae synthesized transporter proteins for peptides, amino acids and carbohydrates, exhibiting a cheater-type lifestyle, i.e. benefiting from public goods released by others. In the late stage of jelly-OM degradation, Rhodobacteraceae and Alteromonadaceae became dominant, growing on jelly-OM left-overs or bacterial debris, potentially contributing to the accumulation of dissolved organic nitrogen compounds and inorganic nutrients, following the decay of jellyfish blooms. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that specific chemical and metabolic fingerprints associated with decaying jellyfish blooms are substantially different to those previously associated with decaying phytoplankton blooms, potentially altering the functioning and biogeochemistry of marine systems. We show that decaying jellyfish blooms are associated with the enrichment in extracellular collagenolytic bacterial proteases, which could act as virulence factors in human and marine organisms' disease, with possible implications for marine ecosystem services. Our study also provides novel insights into niche partitioning and metabolic interactions among key jelly-OM degraders operating a complex metabolic network in a temporal cascade of biochemical reactions to degrade pulses of jellyfish-bloom-specific compounds in the water column. Video Abstract.
PXD040896	37480175	Monitoring mAb proteoforms in mouse plasma using an automated immunocapture combined with top-down and middle-down mass spectrometry. 	Monitoring mAb proteoforms in mouse plasma using an automated immunocapture combined with top-down and middle-down mass spectrometry	immunocapture, middle-down mass spectrometry, monoclonal antibody, proteoforms, top-down mass spectrometry	Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have established themselves as the leading biopharmaceutical therapeutic modality. Once the developability of a mAb drug candidate has been assessed, an important step is to check its in vivo stability through pharmacokinetics (PK) studies. The gold standard is ligand-binding assay (LBA) and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) performed at the peptide level (bottom-up approach). However, these analytical techniques do not allow to address the different mAb proteoforms that can arise from biotransformation. In recent years, top-down and middle-down mass spectrometry approaches have gained popularity to characterize proteins at the proteoform level but are not yet widely used for PK studies. We propose here a workflow based on an automated immunocapture followed by top-down and middle-down liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approaches to characterize mAb proteoforms spiked in mouse plasma. We demonstrate the applicability of our workflow on a large concentration range using pembrolizumab as a model. We also compare the performance of two state-of-the-art Orbitrap platforms (Tribrid Eclipse and Exploris 480) for these studies. The added value of our workflow for an accurate and sensitive characterization of mAb proteoforms in mouse plasma is highlighted.
PXD037107	37480846	Nucleocytoplasmic mRNA redistribution accompanies RNA binding protein mislocalization in ALS motor neurons and is restored by VCP ATPase inhibition. 	Nucleocytoplasmic mRNA redistribution accompanies RNA binding protein mislocalisation in ALS motor neurons and is restored by VCP inhibition	ALS, iPSC, motor neuron	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by nucleocytoplasmic mislocalization of the RNA-binding protein (RBP) TDP-43. However, emerging evidence suggests more widespread mRNA and protein mislocalization. Here, we employed nucleocytoplasmic fractionation, RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry to investigate the localization of mRNA and protein in induced pluripotent stem cell-derived motor neurons (iPSMNs) from ALS patients with TARDBP and VCP mutations. ALS mutant iPSMNs exhibited extensive nucleocytoplasmic mRNA redistribution, RBP mislocalization, and splicing alterations. Mislocalized proteins exhibited a greater affinity for redistributed transcripts, suggesting a link between RBP mislocalization and mRNA redistribution. Notably, treatment with ML240, a VCP ATPase inhibitor, partially restored mRNA and protein localization in ALS mutant iPSMNs. ML240 induced changes in the VCP interactome and lysosomal localization and reduced oxidative stress and DNA damage. These findings emphasize the link between RBP mislocalization and mRNA redistribution in ALS motor neurons and highlight the therapeutic potential of VCP inhibition.
PXD054500	37481068	Unbiased differential proteomic profiling between cancer-associated fibroblasts and cancer cell lines. 	Comprehensive proteomic profiling of the differences between Cancer Associated Fibroblasts and KRAS mutated cancer cell lines	CAFs, Cancer Associated Fibroblasts, KRAS	Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are a key component of tumors. We aimed to profile the proteome of cancer cell lines representing three common cancer types (lung, colorectal and pancreatic) and a representative CAF cell line from each tumor type to gain insight into CAF function and novel CAF biomarkers. We used isobaric labeling, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry to evaluate the proteome of 9 cancer and 3 CAF cell lines. Of the 9460 proteins evaluated, functional enrichment analysis revealed an upregulation of N-glycan biosynthesis and extracellular matrix proteins in CAFs. 85 proteins had 16-fold higher expression in CAFs compared to cancer cells, including previously known CAF markers like fibroblast activation protein (FAP). Novel overexpressed CAF biomarkers included heat shock protein beta-6 (HSPB6/HSP20) and cyclooxygenase 1 (PTGS1/COX1). SiRNA knockdown of the genes encoding these proteins did not reduce contractility in lung CAFs, suggesting they were not crucial to this function. Immunohistochemical analysis of 30 tumor samples (10 lung, 10 colorectal and 10 pancreatic) showed restricted HSPB6 and PTGS1 expression in the stroma. Therefore, we describe an unbiased differential proteome analysis of CAFs compared to cancer cells, which revealed higher expression of HSPB6 and PTGS1 in CAFs. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD040360). SIGNIFICANCE: Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are highly abundant stromal cells present in tumors. CAFs are known to influence tumor progression and drug resistance. Characterizing the proteome of CAFs could give potential insights into new stromal drug targets and biomarkers. Mass spectrometry-based analysis comparing proteomic profiles of CAFs and cancers characterized 9460 proteins of which 85 proteins had 16-fold higher expression in CAFs compared to cancer cells. Further interrogation of this rich resource could provide insight into the function of CAFs and could reveal putative stromal targets. We describe for the first time that heat shock protein beta-6 (HSPB6/HSP20) and cyclooxygenase 1 (PTGS1/COX1) are overexpressed in CAFs compared to cancer cells.
PXD041738	37482271	Identification of gravity-responsive proteins in the femur of spaceflight mice using a quantitative proteomic approach. 	Identification of gravity-responsive proteins in the femur of spaceflight mice using a quantitative proteomic approach	Kibo project, femur, mandible, medical Proteomics, microgravity exposure	Although the microgravity (mu-g) environment that astronauts encounter during spaceflight can cause severe acute bone loss, the molecular mechanism of this bone loss remains unclear. To investigate the gravity-response proteins involved in bone metabolism, it is important to comprehensively determine which proteins exhibit differential abundance associated with mechanical stimuli. However, comprehensive proteomic analysis using small bone samples is difficult because protein extraction in mineralized bone tissue is inefficient. Here, we established a high-sensitivity analysis system for mouse bone proteins using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. This system successfully detected 40 proteins in the femoral diaphysis showing differential abundance between mice raised in a mu-g environment, where the bone mass was reduced by gravity unloading, and mice raised in an artificial 1-gravity environment on the International Space Station. Additionally, 22 proteins, including noncollagenous bone matrix proteins, showed similar abundance between the two groups in the mandible, where bone mass was unaltered due to mastication stimuli, suggesting that these proteins are responsive to mechanical stimuli. One of these proteins, SPARCL1, is suggested to promote osteoclastogenesis induced by receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand. We expect these findings to lead to new insights into the mechanisms of bone metabolism induced by mechanical stimuli. SIGNIFICANCE: We aimed to investigate the gravity-response proteins involved in bone metabolism. To this end, we established a comprehensive analysis system for mouse bone proteins using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry, which is particularly useful in comprehensively analyzing the bone proteome using small sample volumes. In addition, a comprehensive proteomic analysis of the femoral diaphysis and mandible, which exhibit different degrees of bone loss in mice raised on the International Space Station, identified proteins that respond to mechanical stimuli. SPARCL1, a mechanical stimulus-responsive protein, was consequently suggested to be involved in osteoclast differentiation associated with bone remodeling. Our findings represent an important step toward elucidating the molecular mechanism of bone metabolism induced by mechanical stimuli.
PXD022129	37485274	Therapeutic potential of extracellular vesicles derived from cardiac progenitor cells in rodent models of chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy. 	Secretome containing extracellular vesicles (EV) from cardiovascular progenitors (EV-CPC) vs the secretome containing EV from Fibroblasts (EV-FB)	Cardiovascular progenitor cells (CPC), Extracellular Vesicles (EV), Fibroblasts, Secretome from Cardic progenitors	Background: Current treatments of chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy (CCM) are of limited efficacy. We assessed whether repeated intravenous injections of human extracellular vesicles from cardiac progenitor cells (EV-CPC) could represent a new therapeutic option and whether EV manufacturing according to a Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)-compatible process did not impair their bioactivity. Methods: Immuno-competent mice received intra-peritoneal injections (IP) of doxorubicin (DOX) (4 mg/kg each; cumulative dose: 12 mg/kg) and were then intravenously (IV) injected three times with EV-CPC (total dose: 30 billion). Cardiac function was assessed 9-11 weeks later by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) using strain as the primary end point. Then, immuno-competent rats received 5 IP injections of DOX (3 mg/kg each; cumulative dose 15 mg/kg) followed by 3 equal IV injections of GMP-EV (total dose: 100 billion). Cardiac function was assessed by two dimensional-echocardiography. Results: In the chronic mouse model of CCM, DOX + placebo-injected hearts incurred a significant decline in basal (global, epi- and endocardial) circumferential strain compared with sham DOX-untreated mice (p = 0.043, p = 0.042, p = 0.048 respectively) while EV-CPC preserved these indices. Global longitudinal strain followed a similar pattern. In the rat model, IV injections of GMP-EV also preserved left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes compared with untreated controls. Conclusions: Intravenously-injected extracellular vesicles derived from CPC have cardio-protective effects which may make them an attractive user-friendly option for the treatment of CCM.
PXD039318	37485346	Methionine oxidation selectively enhances T cell reactivity against a melanoma antigen. 	Oxidized methionine melanoma epitopes	immunotherapy, melanoma, peptidomics, tyrosinase	The impact of the peptide amino acids side-chain modifications on the immunological recognition has been scarcely explored. We investigate here the effect of methionine oxidation on the antigenicity of the melanoma immunodominant peptide 369-YMDGTMSQV-377 (YMD). Using CD8(+) T cell activation assays, we found that the antigenicity of the sulfoxide form is higher when compared to the YMD peptide. This is consistent with free energy computations performed on HLA-A*02:01/YMD/TCR complex showing that this is lowered upon oxidation, paired with a steep increase in order at atomic level. Oxidized YMD forms were identified at the melanoma cell surface by LC-MS/MS analysis. These results demonstrate that methionine oxidation in the antigenic peptides may generate altered peptide ligands with increased antigenicity, and that this oxidation may occur in vivo, opening up the possibility that high-affinity CD8(+) T cells might be naturally primed in the course of melanoma progression, as a result of immunosurveillance.
PXD037723	37485352	Alcohol-sourced acetate impairs T cell function by promoting cortactin acetylation. 	Alcohol-sourced acetate impairs T cell function by promoting cortactin acetylation	Alcohol, acetate, cell biomechanics, cell trafficking, cytoskeleton, filamentous actin	Alcohol is among the most widely consumed dietary substances. Excessive alcohol consumption damages the liver, heart, and brain. Alcohol also has strong immunoregulatory properties. Here, we report how alcohol impairs T cell function via acetylation of cortactin, a protein that binds filamentous actin and facilitates branching. Upon alcohol consumption, acetate, the metabolite of alcohol, accumulates in lymphoid organs. T cells exposed to acetate, exhibit increased acetylation of cortactin. Acetylation of cortactin inhibits filamentous actin binding and hence reduces T cell migration, immune synapse formation and activation. While mutated, acetylation-resistant cortactin rescues the acetate-induced inhibition of T cell migration, primary mouse cortactin knockout T cells exhibited impaired migration. Acetate-induced cytoskeletal changes effectively inhibited activation, proliferation, and immune synapse formation in T cells in vitro and in vivo in an influenza infection model in mice. Together these findings reveal cortactin as a possible target for mitigation of T cell driven autoimmune diseases.
PXD035813	37485370	A proximity labeling strategy enables proteomic analysis of inter-organelle membrane contacts. 	A Proximity Labeling Strategy Provides Insights into the Composition and Dynamics of mitochondria-lipid droplet contact proteomes	BiFC, Mitochondria-lipid droplet contact, cholesterol, comparative proteomics, proximity labeling	Inter-organelle membrane contacts are highly dynamic and act as central hubs for many biological processes, but the protein compositions remain largely unknown due to the lack of efficient tools. Here, we developed BiFCPL to analyze the contact proteome in living cells by a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC)-based proximity labeling (PL) strategy. BiFCPL was applied to study mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum contacts (MERCs) and mitochondria-lipid droplet (LD) contacts. We identified 403 highly confident MERC proteins, including many transiently resident proteins and potential tethers. Moreover, we demonstrated that mitochondria-LD contacts are sensitive to nutrient status. A comparative proteomic analysis revealed that 60 proteins are up- or downregulated at contact sites under metabolic challenge. We verified that SQLE, an enzyme for cholesterol synthesis, accumulates at mitochondria-LD contact sites probably to utilize local ATP for cholesterol synthesis. This work provides an efficient method to identify key proteins at inter-organelle membrane contacts in living cells.
PXD037034	37486771	ISW1a modulates cohesin distribution in centromeric and pericentromeric regions. 	Identification and functional characterization of proteins interacting with cohesin complex in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Scc1, cohesin complex, cohesion	Cohesin is a highly conserved, multiprotein complex whose canonical function is to hold sister chromatids together to ensure accurate chromosome segregation. Cohesin association with chromatin relies on the Scc2-Scc4 cohesin loading complex that enables cohesin ring opening and topological entrapment of sister DNAs. To better understand how sister chromatid cohesion is regulated, we performed a proteomic screen in budding yeast that identified the Isw1 chromatin remodeler as a cohesin binding partner. In addition, we found that Isw1 also interacts with Scc2-Scc4. Lack of Isw1 protein, the Ioc3 subunit of ISW1a or Isw1 chromatin remodeling activity resulted in increased accumulation of cohesin at centromeres and pericentromeres, suggesting that ISW1a may promote efficient translocation of cohesin from the centromeric site of loading to neighboring regions. Consistent with the role of ISW1a in the chromatin organization of centromeric regions, Isw1 was found to be recruited to centromeres. In its absence we observed changes in the nucleosomal landscape at centromeres and pericentromeres. Finally, we discovered that upon loss of RSC functionality, ISW1a activity leads to reduced cohesin binding and cohesion defect. Taken together, our results support the notion of a key role of chromatin remodelers in the regulation of cohesin distribution on chromosomes.
PXD033317	37488054	Global profiling of miRNA and protein expression patterns in rabbit peritoneal macrophages treated with exosomes derived from Taenia pisiformis cysticercus. 	Exosomes from Cysticercus pisiforms induced proteome of rabbit peritoneal macrophages	Cysticercus pisiforms, exosomes, rabbit	Infection of Taenia pisiformis cysticercus is very frequently found in lagomorphs and causes serious economic losses to rabbit breeding industry. T. pisiformis cysticercus has evolved numerous strategies to manipulate their hosts. The release of exosomes is of importance in the interaction between host and parasite. However, the mechanism by which T. pisiformis cysticercus evades the host immune system for long-term survival within the host remains unclear. Using small RNA sequencing and TMT labelling proteomic, we profiled the expression patterns of miRNAs and proteins in rabbit peritoneal macrophages treated with T. pisiformis cysticercus exosomes. Seven differentially expressed (DE)-miRNAs and six DE-proteins were randomly selected to validate the accuracy of the sequencing data by qRT-PCR or western blot. Functions of DE-miRNAs and proteins were analyzed using public data bases. And DE-miRNAs-DE-proteins correlation network were established. CCK-8 assay was used to evaluate the effect of exosomes on macrophages proliferation. Cell cycle of macrophages, isolated from T. pisiformis-infected rabbits, was determined using flow cytometry. A total of 21 miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed, including three worm-derived miRNAs. The expressions of miRNAs and proteins were consistent with the sequencing results. DE-miRNAs targets were related to cell proliferation and apoptosis. Exosomes treatment resulted in a decrease of macrophages proliferation. In vivo, T. pisiformis cysticercus significantly induced S phase cell arrest. Moreover, DE-proteins were related to production of interferon-gamma and interleukin-12, and immunoregulation. Correlation network analysis revealed a negative correlation relationship between DE-miRNAs and DE-proteins. Among them, novel334 and tpi-let-7-5p have potential regulatory effects on IL1beta and NFkappaB2 respectively, which imply that novel334-IL1beta/tpi-let-7-5p-NFkappaB2 axis may be an important way that T. pisiformis cysticercus modulates host immune response through exosomes. Further understanding of these potential regulatory mechanisms will contribute to clarify the mechanism of escape mediated by T. pisiformis exosomes.
PXD043232	37488096	ORC1 binds to cis-transcribed RNAs for efficient activation of replication origins. 	Mass spectrometry and phosphorylation analysis of ORC1 protein, wild type or RNA-binding mutant (R441A, R444A and R465A), in GAA-RNA (RNA interactors of ORC1 identified by RIP-seq and iCLIP) knockdown or control conditions.	Phosphoproteomics of ORC1 with altered protein RNA-binding	Cells must coordinate the activation of thousands of replication origins dispersed throughout their genome. Active transcription is known to favor the formation of mammalian origins, although the role that RNA plays in this process remains unclear. We show that the ORC1 subunit of the human Origin Recognition Complex interacts with RNAs transcribed from genes with origins in their transcription start sites (TSSs), displaying a positive correlation between RNA binding and origin activity. RNA depletion, or the use of ORC1 RNA-binding mutant, result in inefficient activation of proximal origins, linked to impaired ORC1 chromatin release. ORC1 RNA binding activity resides in its intrinsically disordered region, involved in intra- and inter-molecular interactions, regulation by phosphorylation, and phase-separation. We show that RNA binding favors ORC1 chromatin release, by regulating its phosphorylation and subsequent degradation. Our results unveil a non-coding function of RNA as a dynamic component of the chromatin, orchestrating the activation of replication origins.
PXD039654	37488251	Bioarchaeological and paleogenomic profiling of the unusual Neolithic burial from Grotta di Pietra Sant'Angelo (Calabria, Italy). 	Human Dental Calculus_Neolithic_Southern Italy	Dental calculus, Italy, Neolithic, palaeoproteomics	The Neolithic burial of Grotta di Pietra Sant'Angelo (CS) represents a unique archaeological finding for the prehistory of Southern Italy. The unusual placement of the inhumation at a rather high altitude and far from inhabited areas, the lack of funerary equipment and the prone deposition of the body find limited similarities in coeval Italian sites. These elements have prompted wider questions on mortuary customs during the prehistory of Southern Italy. This atypical case requires an interdisciplinary approach aimed to build an integrated bioarchaeological profile of the individual. The paleopathological investigation of the skeletal remains revealed the presence of numerous markers that could be associated with craft activities, suggesting possible interpretations of the individual's lifestyle. CT analyses, carried out on the maxillary bones, showed the presence of a peculiar type of dental wear, but also a good density of the bone matrix. Biomolecular and micromorphological analyses of dental calculus highlight the presence of a rich Neolithic-like oral microbiome, the composition of which is consistent with the presence pathologies. Finally, paleogenomic data obtained from the individual were compared with ancient and modern Mediterranean populations, including unpublished high-resolution genome-wide data for 20 modern inhabitants of the nearby village of San Lorenzo Bellizzi, which provided interesting insights into the biodemographic landscape of the Neolithic in Southern Italy.
PXD034608	37489002	Effects of multiple stressors on pancreatic human islets proteome reveal new insights into the pathways involved. 	Combined Effects of Multiple Stresses on Pancreatic Human Islet beta-Cell Response: New Insights into the Pathways Involved	Cytokine, Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, Glucose, Human islet, Mitochondria stress, Rotenone, TMTpro quantitative proteomics, Thapsigargin	Pancreatic beta-cell dysfunction is an early hallmark of type 1 diabetes mellitus. Among the potentially critical factors that cause beta-cell dysfunction are cytokine attack, glucotoxicity, induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) or mitochondria stress. However, the exact molecular mechanism underlying beta-cell's inability to maintain glucose homeostasis under severe stresses is unknown. This study used proinflammatory cytokines, thapsigargin, and rotenone in the presence of high concentration glucose to mimicking the conditions experienced by dysfunctional beta-cells in human pancreatic islets, and profiled the alterations to the islet proteome with TMT-based proteomics. The results were further verified with label-free quantitative proteomics. The differentially expressed proteins under stress conditions reveal that immune related pathways are mostly perturbed by cytokines, while the respiratory electron transport chains and protein processing in ER pathways by rotenone. Thapsigargin together with high glucose induces dramatic increases of proteins in lipid synthesis and peroxisomal protein import pathways, with energy metabolism and vesicle secretion related pathways downregulated. High concentration glucose, on the other hand, alleviated complex I inhibition induced by rotenone. Our results contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the molecular events involved in beta-cell dysfunction.
PXD034434	37489617	FBL promotes cancer cell resistance to DNA damage and BRCA1 transcription via YBX1. 	FBL promotes cancer cell resistance to DNA damage by transcriptionally regulating BRCA1 via YBX1	FBL, HCT116 cells, nonoLC-MS/MS	Fibrillarin (FBL) is a highly conserved nucleolar methyltransferase responsible for methylation of ribosomal RNA and proteins. Here, we reveal a role for FBL in DNA damage response and its impact on cancer proliferation and sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents. FBL is highly expressed in various cancers and correlates with poor survival outcomes in cancer patients. Knockdown of FBL sensitizes tumor cells and xenografts to DNA crosslinking agents, and leads to homologous recombination-mediated DNA repair defects. We identify Y-box-binding protein-1 (YBX1) as a key interacting partner of FBL, and FBL increases the nuclear accumulation of YBX1 in response to DNA damage. We show that FBL promotes the expression of BRCA1 by increasing the binding of YBX1 to the BRCA1 promoter. Our study sheds light on the regulatory mechanism of FBL in tumorigenesis and DNA damage response, providing potential therapeutic targets to overcome chemoresistance in cancer.
PXD042058	37490387	Phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate regulates iron transport via PI3P-binding CgPil1 protein. 	Phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P) interactome analysis under varied iron conditions in Candida glabrata.	Bathophenanthroline disulfonate (BPS), Candida glabrata, LC-MS/MS., Phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P)	Iron homeostasis, which is pivotal to virulence, is regulated by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase CgVps34 in the human fungal pathogen Candida glabrata. Here, we identify CgPil1 as a phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P)-binding protein and unveil its role in retaining the high-affinity iron transporter CgFtr1 at the plasma membrane (PM), with PI3P negatively regulating CgFtr1-CgPil1 interaction. PI3P production and its PM localization are elevated in the high-iron environment. Surplus iron also leads to intracellular distribution and vacuolar delivery of CgPil1 and CgFtr1, respectively, from the PM. Loss of CgPil1 or CgFtr1 ubiquitination at lysines 391 and 401 results in CgFtr1 trafficking to the endoplasmic reticulum and a decrease in vacuole-localized CgFtr1. The E3-ubiquitin ligase CgRsp5 interacts with CgFtr1 and forms distinct CgRsp5-CgFtr1 puncta at the PM, with high iron resulting in their internalization. Finally, PI3P controls retrograde transport of many PM proteins. Altogether, we establish PI3P as a key regulator of membrane transport in C. glabrata.
PXD038402	37490507	The respiratory syncytial virus M2-2 protein is targeted for proteasome degradation and inhibits translation and stress granules assembly. 	The Respiratory Syncytial Virus M2-2 protein is targeted for proteasome degradation and inhibits translation and stress granules assembly	DRiPs, M2-2, RSV, eiF2alpha, proteasome, puromycin., stress granules, syncytial virus, translation	The M2-2 protein from the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a 10 kDa protein expressed by the second ORF of the viral gene M2. During infection, M2-2 has been described as the polymerase cofactor responsible for promoting genome replication, which occurs by the induction of changes in interactions between the polymerase and other viral proteins at early stages of infection. Despite its well-explored role in the regulation of the polymerase activity, little has been made to investigate the relationship of M2-2 with cellular proteins. A previous report showed poor recruitment of M2-2 to viral structures, with the protein being mainly localized to the nucleus and cytoplasmic granules. To unravel which other functions M2-2 exerts during infection, we performed proteomic analysis of co-immunoprecipitated cellular partners, identifying enrichment of proteins involved with regulation of translation, protein folding and mRNA splicing. In approaches based on these data, we found that M2-2 expression downregulates eiF2alpha phosphorylation and inhibits both translation and stress granules assembly. Finally, we also verified that M2-2 is targeted for proteasome degradation, being localized to granules composed of defective ribosomal products at the cytoplasm. These results suggest that besides its functions in the replicative complex, M2-2 may exert additional functions to contribute to successful RSV infection.
PXD037190	37491408	Assessment of infant outgrowth of cow's milk allergy in relation to the faecal microbiome and metaproteome. 	Microbiome differences related to infant outgrowth of cow's milk allergy.	Metaproteomics, cow's milk allergy, early life, microbiota, synbiotics	Previous studies provide evidence for an association between modifications of the gut microbiota in early life and the development of food allergies. We studied the faecal microbiota composition (16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing) and faecal microbiome functionality (metaproteomics) in a cohort of 40 infants diagnosed with cow's milk allergy (CMA) when entering the study. Some of the infants showed outgrowth of CMA after 12 months, while others did not. Faecal microbiota composition of infants was analysed directly after CMA diagnosis (baseline) as well as 6 and 12 months after entering the study. The aim was to gain insight on gut microbiome parameters in relation to outgrowth of CMA. The results of this study show that microbiome differences related to outgrowth of CMA can be mainly identified at the taxonomic level of the 16S rRNA gene, and to a lesser extent at the protein-based microbial taxonomy and functional protein level. At the 16S rRNA gene level outgrowth of CMA is characterized by lower relative abundance of Lachnospiraceae at baseline and lower Bacteroidaceae at visit 12 months.
PXD039679	37492994	Comparative proteomics of vesicles essential for the egress of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes from red blood cells. 	Proteomic analyses identified distinct types of vesicles essential for egress of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes from red blood cells	Plasmodium falciparum, egress, gametocyte, malaria, red blood cell, vesicle	Transmission of malaria parasites to the mosquito is mediated by sexual precursor cells, the gametocytes. Upon entering the mosquito midgut, the gametocytes egress from the enveloping erythrocyte while passing through gametogenesis. Egress follows an inside-out mode during which the membrane of the parasitophorous vacuole (PV) ruptures prior to the erythrocyte membrane. Membrane rupture requires exocytosis of specialized egress vesicles of the parasites; that is, osmiophilic bodies (OBs) involved in rupturing the PV membrane, and vesicles that harbor the perforin-like protein PPLP2 (here termed P-EVs) required for erythrocyte lysis. While some OB proteins have been identified, like G377 and MDV1/Peg3, the majority of egress vesicle-resident proteins is yet unknown. Here, we used high-resolution imaging and BioID methods to study the two egress vesicle types in Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes. We show that OB exocytosis precedes discharge of the P-EVs and that exocytosis of the P-EVs, but not of the OBs, is calcium sensitive. Both vesicle types exhibit distinct proteomes with the majority of proteins located in the OBs. In addition to known egress-related proteins, we identified novel components of OBs and P-EVs, including vesicle-trafficking proteins. Our data provide insight into the immense molecular machinery required for the inside-out egress of P. falciparum gametocytes.
PXD043929	37493472	Exercise training induces depot-specific remodeling of protein secretion in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue of obese male mice. 	Exercise training induces depot-specific remodelling of protein secretion in  skeletal muscle and adipose tissue of obese male mice	adipose tissue, exercise, muscle, secretome	Acute exercise induces changes in circulating proteins, which are known to alter metabolism and systemic energy balance. Skeletal muscle is a primary contributor to changes in the plasma proteome with acute exercise. An important consideration when assessing the endocrine function of muscle is the presence of different fiber types, which show distinct functional and metabolic properties and likely secrete different proteins. Similarly, adipokines are important regulators of systemic metabolism and have been shown to differ between depots. Given the health-promoting effects of exercise, we proposed that understanding depot-specific remodeling of protein secretion in muscle and adipose tissue would provide new insights into intertissue communication and uncover novel regulators of energy homeostasis. Here, we examined the effect of endurance exercise training on protein secretion from fast-twitch extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and slow-twitch soleus muscle and visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue. High-fat diet-fed mice were exercise trained for 6 wk, whereas a Control group remained sedentary. Secreted proteins from excised EDL and soleus muscle, inguinal, and epididymal adipose tissues were detected using mass spectrometry. We detected 575 and 784 secreted proteins from EDL and soleus muscle and 738 and 920 proteins from inguinal and epididymal adipose tissue, respectively. Of these, 331 proteins were secreted from all tissues, whereas secretion of many other proteins was tissue and depot specific. Exercise training led to substantial remodeling of protein secretion from EDL, whereas soleus showed only minor changes. Myokines released exclusively from EDL or soleus were associated with glycogen metabolism and cellular stress response, respectively. Adipokine secretion was completely refractory to exercise regulation in both adipose depots. This study provides an in-depth resource of protein secretion from muscle and adipose tissue, and its regulation following exercise training, and identifies distinct depot-specific secretion patterns that are related to the metabolic properties of the tissue of origin.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The present study examines the effects of exercise training on protein secretion from fast-twitch and slow-twitch muscle as well as visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue of obese mice. Although exercise training leads to substantial remodeling of protein secretion from fast-twitch muscle, adipose tissue is completely refractory to exercise regulation.
PXD041402	37494277	Short-range interactions between fibrocytes and CD8(+) T cells in COPD bronchial inflammatory response. 	Short-range interactions between fibrocytes and CD8+ T cells in COPD bronchial inflammatory response	Chronic respiratory diseases, chemotaxis, inflammation, intercellular interactions, remodeling	Bronchi of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are the site of extensive cell infiltration, allowing persistent contact between resident cells and immune cells. Tissue fibrocytes interaction with CD8(+) T cells and its consequences were investigated using a combination of in situ, in vitro experiments and mathematical modeling. We show that fibrocytes and CD8(+) T cells are found in the vicinity of distal airways and that potential interactions are more frequent in tissues from COPD patients compared to those of control subjects. Increased proximity and clusterization between CD8(+) T cells and fibrocytes are associated with altered lung function. Tissular CD8(+) T cells from COPD patients promote fibrocyte chemotaxis via the CXCL8-CXCR1/2 axis. Live imaging shows that CD8(+) T cells establish short-term interactions with fibrocytes, that trigger CD8(+) T cell proliferation in a CD54- and CD86-dependent manner, pro-inflammatory cytokines production, CD8(+) T cell cytotoxic activity against bronchial epithelial cells and fibrocyte immunomodulatory properties. We defined a computational model describing these intercellular interactions and calibrated the parameters based on our experimental measurements. We show the model's ability to reproduce histological ex vivo characteristics, and observe an important contribution of fibrocyte-mediated CD8(+) T cell proliferation in COPD development. Using the model to test therapeutic scenarios, we predict a recovery time of several years, and the failure of targeting chemotaxis or interacting processes. Altogether, our study reveals that local interactions between fibrocytes and CD8(+) T cells could jeopardize the balance between protective immunity and chronic inflammation in the bronchi of COPD patients.
PXD042594	37494396	ROS are evolutionary conserved cell-to-cell stress signals. 	ROS are evolutionary conserved cell-to-cell stress signals	Cell-to-cell communication, DIA-PASEF, Reactive oxygen species (ROS)	Cell-to-cell communication is fundamental to multicellular organisms and unicellular organisms living in a microbiome. It is thought to have evolved as a stress- or quorum-sensing mechanism in unicellular organisms. A unique cell-to-cell communication mechanism that uses reactive oxygen species (ROS) as a signal (termed the "ROS wave") was identified in flowering plants. This process is essential for systemic signaling and plant acclimation to stress and can spread from a small group of cells to the entire plant within minutes. Whether a similar signaling process is found in other organisms is however unknown. Here, we report that the ROS wave can be found in unicellular algae, amoeba, ferns, mosses, mammalian cells, and isolated hearts. We further show that this process can be triggered in unicellular and multicellular organisms by a local stress or H2O2 treatment and blocked by the application of catalase or NADPH oxidase inhibitors and that in unicellular algae it communicates important stress-response signals between cells. Taken together, our findings suggest that an active process of cell-to-cell ROS signaling, like the ROS wave, evolved before unicellular and multicellular organisms diverged. This mechanism could have communicated an environmental stress signal between cells and coordinated the acclimation response of many different cells living in a community. The finding of a signaling process, like the ROS wave, in mammalian cells further contributes to our understanding of different diseases and could impact the development of drugs that target for example cancer or heart disease.
PXD034228	37495186	EGFR-T790M Mutation-Derived Interactome Rerouted EGFR Translocation Contributing to Gefitinib Resistance in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. 	TKI-resistant T790M EGFR Mutation Rewired EGFR Translocation Routes  through Switching Interactome in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), T790M mutation, autophagy, interactome, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)	Secondary mutation, T790M, conferring tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) resistance beyond oncogenic epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations presents a challenging unmet need. Although TKI-resistant mechanisms are intensively investigated, the underlying responses of cancer cells adapting drug perturbation are largely unknown. To illuminate the molecular basis linking acquired mutation to TKI resistance, affinity purification coupled mass spectrometry was adopted to dissect EGFR interactome in TKI-sensitive and TKI-resistant non-small cell lung cancer cells. The analysis revealed TKI-resistant EGFR-mutant interactome allocated in diverse subcellular distribution and enriched in endocytic trafficking, in which gefitinib intervention activated autophagy-mediated EGFR degradation and thus autophagy inhibition elevated gefitinib susceptibility. Alternatively, gefitinib prompted TKI-sensitive EGFR translocating toward cell periphery through Rab7 ubiquitination which may favor efficacy to TKIs suppression. This study revealed that T790M mutation rewired EGFR interactome that guided EGFR to autophagy-mediated degradation to escape treatment, suggesting that combination therapy with TKI and autophagy inhibitor may overcome acquired resistance in non-small cell lung cancer.
PXD038277	37495545	In-Depth Specificity Profiling of Endopeptidases Using Dedicated Mix-and-Split Synthetic Peptide Libraries and Mass Spectrometry. 	In-depth specificity profiling of Pro-Pro endopeptidases (PPEPs) using combinatorial synthetic peptide libraries	FRET peptides, PPEP, Pro-Pro endopeptidase, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), mass spectrometry (MS), metalloprotease, specificity profiling, substrate specificity, synthetic peptide libraries	Proteases comprise the class of enzymes that catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptide bonds, thereby playing a pivotal role in many aspects of life. The amino acids surrounding the scissile bond determine the susceptibility toward protease-mediated hydrolysis. A detailed understanding of the cleavage specificity of a protease can lead to the identification of its endogenous substrates, while it is also essential for the design of inhibitors. Although many methods for protease activity and specificity profiling exist, none of these combine the advantages of combinatorial synthetic libraries, i.e., high diversity, equimolar concentration, custom design regarding peptide length, and randomization, with the sensitivity and detection power of mass spectrometry. Here, we developed such a method and applied it to study a group of bacterial metalloproteases that have the unique specificity to cleave between two prolines, i.e., Pro-Pro endopeptidases (PPEPs). We not only confirmed the prime-side specificity of PPEP-1 and PPEP-2, but also revealed some new unexpected peptide substrates. Moreover, we have characterized a new PPEP (PPEP-3) that has a prime-side specificity that is very different from that of the other two PPEPs. Importantly, the approach that we present in this study is generic and can be extended to investigate the specificity of other proteases.
PXD042778	37496671	QHRD106 ameliorates ischemic stroke injury as a long-acting tissue kallikrein preparation. 	A new long-acting tissue kallikrein ameliorates ischemic stroke injury by inhibiting HMGB1-related neuroinflammation and apoptosis-ip	QHRD106, ischemic stroke, tissue kallikrein	Ischemic stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide, and there are limited effective treatment strategies. QHRD106, a polyethyleneglycol (PEG)-modified long-acting tissue kallikrein preparation, has not been reported previously. In this study, we aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect of QHRD106 in ischemic stroke and its possible mechanism. We found that QHRD106 treatment alleviated brain injury after stroke via bradykinin (BK) receptor B2 (B2R) instead of BK receptor B1 (B1R). Mechanistically, QHRD106 reduced high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1)-induced apoptosis and inflammation after ischemic stroke in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, we confirmed that QHRD106 reduced the level of acetylated HMGB1 and reduced the binding between heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1 (HSP90AA1) and HMGB1, thus inhibiting the translocation and release of HMGB1. In summary, these findings indicate that QHRD106 treatment has therapeutic potential for cerebral ischemic stroke.
PXD041926	37496672	Proteomics identifies lipocalin-2 in neonatal inflammation associated with cerebrovascular alteration in mice and preterm infants. 	Proteomics identifies lipocalin 2 in neonatal inflammation associated with cerebrovascular alteration in mice and preterm infants	N/A	Staphylococcus (S.) epidermidis is the most common nosocomial coagulase-negative staphylococci infection in preterm infants. Clinical signs of infection are often unspecific and novel markers to complement diagnosis are needed. We investigated proteomic alterations in mouse brain after S. epidermidis infection and in preterm infant blood. We identified lipocalin-2 (LCN2) as a crucial protein associated with cerebrovascular changes and astrocyte reactivity in mice. We further proved that LCN2 protein expression was associated with endothelial cells but not astrocyte reactivity. By combining network analysis and differential expression approaches, we identified LCN2 linked to blood C-reactive protein levels in preterm infants born <28 weeks of gestation. Blood LCN2 levels were associated with similar alterations of cytokines and chemokines in both infected mice and human preterm infants with increased levels of C-reactive protein. This experimental and clinical study suggests that LCN2 may be a marker of preterm infection/inflammation associated with cerebrovascular changes and neuroinflammation.
PXD042637	37496863	Metabolic profiling reveals key metabolites regulating adventitious root formation in ancient Platycladus orientalis cuttings. 	Proteome raw data of Platycladus orientalis	Proteome raw data	Platycladus orientalis, a common horticultural tree species, has an extremely long life span and forms a graceful canopy. Its branches, leaves, and cones have been used in traditional Chinese medicine. However, difficulty in rooting is the main limiting factor for the conservation of germplasm resources. This study shows that the rooting rates and root numbers of cuttings were significantly reduced in ancient P. orientalis donors compared to 5-year-old P. orientalis donors. The contents of differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs) in phenylpropanoid (caffeic acid and coniferyl alcohol) and flavonoid biosynthesis (cinnamoyl-CoA and isoliquiritigenin) pathways increased significantly in cuttings propagated from ancient P. orientalis donors compared to 5-year-old P. orientalis donors during adventitious root (AR) formation. These DAMs may prevent the ancient P. orientalis cuttings from rooting, and gradual lignification of callus was one of the main reasons for the failed rooting of ancient P. orientalis cuttings. The rooting rates of ancient P. orientalis cuttings were improved by wounding the callus to identify wounding-induced rooting-promoting metabolites. After wounding, the contents of DAMs in zeatin (5'-methylthioadenosine, cis-zeatin-O-glucoside, and adenine) and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis (l-glutamine, l-histidine, l-isoleucine, l-leucine, and l-arginine) pathways increased, which might promote cell division and provided energy for the rooting process. The findings of our study suggest that breaking down the lignification of callus via wounding can eventually improve the rooting rates of ancient P. orientalis cuttings, which provides a new solution for cuttings of other difficult-to-root horticultural and woody plants.
PXD037663	37497566	Immunoglobulin G4 in eosinophilic esophagitis: Immune complex formation and correlation with disease activity. 	proteome of lgG4+ regions from EoE patient biopsies by AutoSTOMP	AutoSTOMP, EoE, esophagus biopsy	BACKGROUND: Recent studies have shown deposition of immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) and food proteins in the esophageal mucosa of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) patients. Our aims were to assess whether co-localization of IgG4 and major cow's milk proteins (CMPs) was associated with EoE disease activity and to investigate the proteins enriched in proximity to IgG4 deposits. METHODS: This study included adult subjects with EoE (n = 13) and non-EoE controls (n = 5). Esophageal biopsies were immunofluorescence stained for IgG4 and CMPs. Co-localization in paired samples from active disease and remission was assessed and compared to controls. The proteome surrounding IgG4 deposits was evaluated by the novel technique, AutoSTOMP. IgG4-food protein interactions were confirmed with co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry. RESULTS: IgG4-CMP co-localization was higher in the active EoE group compared to paired remission samples (Bos d 4, p = .02; Bos d 5, p = .002; Bos d 8, p = .002). Co-localization was also significantly higher in the active EoE group compared to non-EoE controls (Bos d 4, p = .0013; Bos d 5, p = .0007; Bos d 8, p = .0013). AutoSTOMP identified eosinophil-derived proteins (PRG 2 and 3, EPX, RNASE3) and calpain-14 in IgG4-enriched areas. Co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry confirmed IgG4 binding to multiple food allergens. CONCLUSION: These findings further contribute to the understanding of the interaction of IgG4 with food antigens as it relates to EoE disease activity. These data strongly suggest the immune complex formation of IgG4 and major cow's milk proteins. These immune complexes may have a potential role in the pathophysiology of EoE by contributing to eosinophil activation and disease progression.
PXD039880	37499118	Discovery and Characterization of a Chemical Probe Targeting the Zinc-Finger Ubiquitin-Binding Domain of HDAC6. 	Discovery and characterization of a chemical probe targeting the zinc-finger ubiquitin-binding domain of HDAC6	HDAC6, UBD, chemical probe, chemoproteomics, ubiquitin binding domain	Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) inhibition is an attractive strategy for treating numerous cancers, and HDAC6 catalytic inhibitors are currently in clinical trials. The HDAC6 zinc-finger ubiquitin-binding domain (UBD) binds free C-terminal diglycine motifs of unanchored ubiquitin polymer chains and protein aggregates, playing an important role in autophagy and aggresome assembly. However, targeting this domain with small molecule antagonists remains an underdeveloped avenue of HDAC6-focused drug discovery. We report SGC-UBD253 (25), a chemical probe potently targeting HDAC6-UBD in vitro with selectivity over nine other UBDs, except for weak USP16 binding. In cells, 25 is an effective antagonist of HDAC6-UBD at 1 muM, with marked proteome-wide selectivity. We identified SGC-UBD253N (32), a methylated derivative of 25 that is 300-fold less active, serving as a negative control. Together, 25 and 32 could enable further exploration of the biological function of the HDAC6-UBD and investigation of the therapeutic potential of targeting this domain.
PXD036842	37500057	Proteomics Identifies Circulating TIMP-1 as a Prognostic Biomarker for Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma. 	The in-depth plasma proteomics of Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, antibody microarray, subtype	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a heterogeneous disease, although disease stratification using in-depth plasma proteomics has not been performed to date. By measuring more than 1000 proteins in the plasma of 147 DLBCL patients using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry and antibody array, DLBCL patients were classified into four proteomic subtypes (PS-I-IV). Patients with the PS-IV subtype and worst prognosis had increased levels of proteins involved in inflammation, including a high expression of metalloproteinase inhibitor-1 (TIMP-1) that was associated with poor survival across two validation cohorts (n = 180). Notably, the combination of TIMP-1 with the international prognostic index (IPI) identified 64.00% to 88.24% of relapsed and 65.00% to 80.49% of deceased patients in the discovery and two validation cohorts, which represents a 24.00% to 41.67% and 20.00% to 31.70% improvement compared to the IPI score alone, respectively. Taken together, we demonstrate that DLBCL heterogeneity is reflected in the plasma proteome and that TIMP-1, together with the IPI, could improve the prognostic stratification of patients.
PXD041447	37500615	THOC3 interacts with YBX1 to promote lung squamous cell carcinoma progression through PFKFB4 mRNA modification. 	Proteins that interacted with THOC3  in lung squamous cell carcinoma	THOC3, lung squamous cell carcinoma	The THO complex (THOC) is ubiquitously involved in RNA modification and various THOC proteins have been reported to regulate tumor development. However, the role of THOC3 in lung cancer remains unknown. In this study, we identified that THOC3 was highly expressed in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) and negatively associated with prognosis. THOC3 knockdown inhibited LUSC cell growth, migration, and glycolysis. THOC3 expression was regulated by TRiC proteins, such as CCT8 and CCT6A, which supported protein folding. Furthermore, THOC3 could form a complex with YBX1 to promote PFKFB4 transcription. THOC3 was responsible for exporting PFKFB4 mRNA to the cytoplasm, while YBX1 ensured the stability of PFKFB4 mRNA by recognizing m5C sites in its 3'UTR. Downregulation of PFKFB4 suppressed the biological activities of LUSC. Collectively, these findings suggest that THOC3, folded by CCT proteins can collaborate with YBX1 to maintain PFKFB4 expression and facilitate LUSC development. Therefore, THOC3 could be considered as a novel promising therapeutic target for LUSC.
PXD037510	37500638	Loss of N-terminal acetyltransferase A activity induces thermally unstable ribosomal proteins and increases their turnover in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Loss of N-terminal acetyltransferase A activity induces thermally unstable ribosomal proteins and increases their turnover	Nt-acetylation, PSilac, Sacharomyces cerevisiae, TPP	Protein N-terminal (Nt) acetylation is one of the most abundant modifications in eukaryotes, covering ~50-80 % of the proteome, depending on species. Cells with defective Nt-acetylation display a wide array of phenotypes such as impaired growth, mating defects and increased stress sensitivity. However, the pleiotropic nature of these effects has hampered our understanding of the functional impact of protein Nt-acetylation. The main enzyme responsible for Nt-acetylation throughout the eukaryotic kingdom is the N-terminal acetyltransferase NatA. Here we employ a multi-dimensional proteomics approach to analyze Saccharomyces cerevisiae lacking NatA activity, which causes global proteome remodeling. Pulsed-SILAC experiments reveals that NatA-deficient strains consistently increase degradation of ribosomal proteins compared to wild type. Explaining this phenomenon, thermal proteome profiling uncovers decreased thermostability of ribosomes in NatA-knockouts. Our data are in agreement with a role for Nt-acetylation in promoting stability for parts of the proteome by enhancing the avidity of protein-protein interactions and folding.
PXD042274	37500654	Metabolic reprogramming of proinflammatory macrophages by target delivered roburic acid effectively ameliorates rheumatoid arthritis symptoms. 	Metabolic reprogramming of proinflammatory macrophages by target delivered roburic acid effectively ameliorates rheumatoid arthritis symptoms	LC-MS, macrophages	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a common chronic inflammatory disorder that usually affects joints. It was found that roburic acid (RBA), an ingredient from anti-RA herb Gentiana macrophylla Pall., displayed strong anti-inflammatory activity. However, its medical application is limited by its hydrophobicity, lack of targeting capability and unclear functional mechanism. Here, we constructed a pH responsive dual-target drug delivery system hitchhiking RBA (RBA-NPs) that targeted both CD44 and folate receptors, and investigated its pharmacological mechanism. In rat RA model, the nanocarriers effectively delivered RBA to inflammatory sites and significantly enhanced the therapeutic outcomes compared with free RBA, as well as strongly reducing inflammatory cytokine levels and promoting tissue repair. Following analysis revealed that M1 macrophages in the joints were reprogrammed to M2 phenotype by RBA. Since the balance of pro- and anti-inflammatory macrophages play important roles in maintaining immune homeostasis and preventing excessive inflammation in RA, this reprogramming is likely responsible for the anti-RA effect. Furthermore, we revealed that RBA-NPs drove M1-to-M2 phenotypic switch by down-regulating the glycolysis level via blocking ERK/HIF-1alpha/GLUT1 pathway. Thus, our work not only developed a targeting delivery system that remarkably improved the anti-RA efficiency of RBA, but also identified a potential molecular target to reversely reprogram macrophages though energy metabolism regulation.
PXD046996	37502925	Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) is an actionable therapeutic target in CDK4/6 inhibitor-resistant ER+/RB-deficient breast cancer. 	Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) is an actionable therapeutic target in CDK4/6 inhibitor-resistant ER+/RB-deficient breast cancer	CDK4/6 inhibitor, PRMT5, RB, SDMA, breast cancer, estrogen receptor	CDK4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) have improved survival of patients with estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer. However, patients treated with CDK4/6i eventually develop drug resistance and progress. RB1 loss-of-function alterations confer acquired resistance to CDK4/6i, but the optimal therapy for these patients is unclear. Using a genome-wide CRISPR screen, we identified protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) as a molecular vulnerability in ER+/RB1-knockout (RBKO) breast cancer cells. PRMT5 inhibition blocked cell cycle G1-to-S transition independent of RB, thus arresting growth of RBKO cells. Proteomics analysis uncovered fused in sarcoma (FUS) as a downstream effector of PRMT5. Pharmacological inhibition of PRMT5 resulted in dissociation of FUS from RNA polymerase II (Pol II), Ser2 Pol II hyperphosphorylation, and intron retention in genes that promote DNA synthesis. Treatment with the PRMT5i inhibitor pemrametostat and fulvestrant synergistically inhibited growth of ER+/RB-deficient patient-derived xenografts, suggesting dual ER and PRMT5 blockade as a novel therapeutic strategy to treat ER+/RB-deficient breast cancer.
PXD039534	37503837	BLM helicase protein negatively regulates stress granule formation through unwinding RNA G-quadruplex structures. 	BLM helicase protein negatively regulates stress granule formation through unwinding RNA G-quadruplex structures	BLM, G-quadruplex, Helicase, QUMA-1, apex, rG4-binding proteins, stress granule	Bloom's syndrome (BLM) protein is a known nuclear helicase that is able to unwind DNA secondary structures such as G-quadruplexes (G4s). However, its role in the regulation of cytoplasmic processes that involve RNA G-quadruplexes (rG4s) has not been previously studied. Here, we demonstrate that BLM is recruited to stress granules (SGs), which are cytoplasmic biomolecular condensates composed of RNAs and RNA-binding proteins. BLM is enriched in SGs upon different stress conditions and in an rG4-dependent manner. Also, we show that BLM unwinds rG4s and acts as a negative regulator of SG formation. Altogether, our data expand the cellular activity of BLM and shed light on the function that helicases play in the dynamics of biomolecular condensates.
PXD042527	37503871	Proteome-Wide Identification of Non-histone Lysine Methylation during Grape Berry Ripening. 	Non-histone lysine methylation of grape berry	Non-histone lysine methylation, grape	To gain a comprehensive understanding of non-histone methylation during berry ripening in grape (Vitis vinifera L.), the methylation of non-histone lysine residues was studied using a 4D label-free quantitative proteomics approach. In total, 822 methylation sites in 416 methylated proteins were identified, with xxExxx_K_xxxxxx as the conserved motif. Functional annotation of non-histone proteins with methylated lysine residues indicated that these proteins were mostly associated with "ripening and senescence", "energy metabolism", "oxidation-reduction process", and "stimulus response". Most of the genes encoding proteins subjected to methylation during grape berry ripening showed a significant increase in expression during maturation at least at one developmental stage. The correlation of methylated proteins with QTLs, SNPs, and selective regions associated with fruit quality and development was also investigated. This study reports the first proteomic analysis of non-histone lysine methylation in grape berry and indicates that non-histone methylation plays an important role in grape berry ripening.
PXD042242	37504262	RNA Methyltransferase METTL16's Protein Domains Have Differential Functional Effects on Cell Processes. 	RNA Methyltransferase METTL16's Protein Domains Have Differential Functional Effects on Cell Processes	METTLE16	METTL16, a human m6A RNA methyltransferase, is currently known for its modification of U6 and MAT2A RNAs. Several studies have identified additional RNAs to which METTL16 binds, however whether METTL16 modifies these RNAs is still in question. Moreover, a recent study determined that METTL16 contains more than one RNA-binding domain, leaving the importance of each individual RNA-binding domain unknown. Here we examined the effects of mutating the METTL16 protein in certain domains on overall cell processes. We chose to mutate the N-terminal RNA-binding domain, the methyltransferase domain, and the C-terminal RNA-binding domain. With these mutants, we identified changes in RNA-binding ability, protein and RNA expression, cell cycle phase occupancy, and proliferation. From the resulting changes in RNA and protein expression, we saw effects on cell cycle, metabolism, intracellular transport, and RNA processing pathways, which varied between the METTL16 mutant lines. We also saw significant effects on the G1 and S phase occupancy times and proliferative ability with some but not all the mutants. We have therefore concluded that while METTL16 may or may not m6A-modify all RNAs it binds, its binding (or lack of) has a significant outcome on a variety of cell processes.
PXD026486	37507364	Structural and functional fine mapping of cysteines in mammalian glutaredoxin reveal their differential oxidation susceptibility. 	Structural and functional fine mapping of cysteines in mammalian glutaredoxin reveal a hierarchy of susceptibility to oxidative inactivation	S-glutathionylation, glutathione, molecular dynamics, multiscale modeling, quantum mechanics, redox	Protein-S-glutathionylation is a post-translational modification involving the conjugation of glutathione to protein thiols, which can modulate the activity and structure of key cellular proteins. Glutaredoxins (GLRX) are oxidoreductases that regulate this process by performing deglutathionylation. However, GLRX has five cysteines that are potentially vulnerable to oxidative modification, which is associated with GLRX aggregation and loss of activity. To date, GLRX cysteines that are oxidatively modified and their relative susceptibilities remain unknown. We utilized molecular modeling approaches, activity assays using recombinant GLRX, coupled with site-directed mutagenesis of each cysteine both individually and in combination to address the oxidizibility of GLRX cysteines. These approaches reveal that C8 and C83 are targets for S-glutathionylation and oxidation by hydrogen peroxide in vitro. In silico modeling and experimental validation confirm a prominent role of C8 for dimer formation and aggregation. Lastly, combinatorial mutation of C8, C26, and C83 results in increased activity of GLRX and resistance to oxidative inactivation and aggregation. Results from these integrated computational and experimental studies provide insights into the relative oxidizability of GLRX's cysteines and have implications for the use of GLRX as a therapeutic in settings of dysregulated protein glutathionylation.
PXD040674	37507727	Biotransformation of triterpenoid ganoderic acids from exogenous diterpene dihydrotanshinone I in the cultures of Ganoderma sessile. 	Proteomic analysis of Ganoderma sessile biotransformation of 15,16-dihydrotanshinone  to obtain ganoderic acid	15, 16-dihydrotanshinone , Ganoderic acid, Ganoderma sessile	BACKGROUND: Triterpenoids have shown a wide range of biological activities including antitumor and antiviral effects. Typically, triterpenes are synthesized through the mevalonate pathway and are extracted from natural plants and fungi. In this work, triterpenoids, ganoderic acids (GAs) were discovered to be produced via biotransformation of a diterpene, 15,16-dihydrotanshinone I (DHT) in the liquid cultured Ganoderma sessile mycelium. RESULTS: Firstly, the biotransformation products, two rare GAs were isolated and purified by column chromatography, and characterized using HR-ESI-MS spectrometry and NMR spectrometry. The two compounds were Lanosta-7,9(11),24-trien-15alpha,22,beta-diacetoxy-3beta-hydroxy-26-oic acid (LTHA) and Lanosta-7,9(11),24-trien-15alpha,22,beta-diacetoxy-3beta-carbonyl-26-oic acid (LTCA). Then, transcriptome and proteome technologies were employed to measure the expression of mRNA and protein, which further confirmed that triterpenoid GAs could be transformed from exogenous diterpenoid DHT. At the molecular level, we proposed a hypothesis of the mechanism by which DHT converted to GAs in G. sessile mycelium, and the possible genes involved in biotransformation were verified by RT-qPCR. CONCLUSIONS: Two rare GAs were obtained and characterized. A biosynthetic pathway of GAs from DHT was proposed. Although the synthetic route was not confirmed, this study provided important insights into omics resources and candidate genes for studying the biotransformation of diterpenes into triterpenes.
PXD041529	37507836	Comparative proteomic analysis of three major extracellular vesicle classes secreted from human primary and metastatic colorectal cancer cells: Exosomes, microparticles, and shed midbody remnants. 	Extracellular vesicle subtypes from human colorectal cancer cell lines	Cancer, Colorectal, EVs	Cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) are evolutionary-conserved secretory organelles that, based on their molecular composition, are important intercellular signaling regulators. At least three classes of circulating EVs are known based on mechanism of biogenesis: exosomes (sEVs/Exos), microparticles (lEVs/MPs), and shed midbody remnants (lEVs/sMB-Rs). sEVs/Exos are of endosomal pathway origin, microparticles (lEVs/MPs) from plasma membrane blebbing and shed midbody remnants (lEVs/sMB-Rs) arise from symmetric cytokinetic abscission. Here, we isolate sEVs/Exos, lEVs/MPs, and lEVs/sMB-Rs secreted from human isogenic primary (SW480) and metastatic (SW620) colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines in milligram quantities for label-free MS/MS-based proteomic profiling. Purified EVs revealed selective composition packaging of exosomal protein markers in SW480/SW620-sEVs/Exos, metabolic enzymes in SW480/SW620-lEVs/MPs, while centralspindlin complex proteins, nucleoproteins, splicing factors, RNA granule proteins, translation-initiation factors, and mitochondrial proteins selectively traffic to SW480/SW620- lEVs/sMB-Rs. Collectively, we identify 39 human cancer-associated genes in EVs; 17 associated with SW480-EVs, 22 with SW620-EVs. We highlight oncogenic receptors/transporters selectively enriched in sEVs/Exos (EGFR/FAS in SW480-sEVs/Exos and MET, TGFBR2, ABCB1 in SW620-sEVs/Exos). Interestingly, MDK, STAT1, and TGM2 are selectively enriched in SW480-lEVs/sMB-Rs, and ADAM15 to SW620-lEVs/sMB-Rs. Our study reveals sEVs/Exos, lEVs/MPs, and lEVs/sMB-Rs have distinct protein signatures that open potential diagnostic avenues of distinct types of EVs for clinical utility.
PXD038373	37509196	Glaucoma-Associated CDR1 Peptide Promotes RGC Survival in Retinal Explants through Molecular Interaction with Acidic Leucine Rich Nuclear Phosphoprotein 32A (ANP32A). 	Glaucoma-Associated CDR1 Peptide Promotes RGC Survival in Retinal Explants through Molecular Interaction with Acidic Leucine Rich Nuclear Phosphoprotein 32A (ANP32A)	ANP32A, Glaucoma, Neuroprotection	Glaucoma is a complex, multifactorial optic neuropathy mainly characterized by the progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and their axons, resulting in a decline of visual function. The pathogenic molecular mechanism of glaucoma is still not well understood, and therapeutic strategies specifically addressing the neurodegenerative component of this ocular disease are urgently needed. Novel immunotherapeutics might overcome this problem by targeting specific molecular structures in the retina and providing direct neuroprotection via different modes of action. Within the scope of this research, the present study showed for the first time beneficial effects of the synthetic CDR1 peptide SCTGTSSDVGGYNYVSWYQ on the viability of RGCs ex vivo in a concentration-dependent manner compared to untreated control explants (CTRL, 50 microg/mL: p < 0.05 and 100 microg/mL: p < 0.001). Thereby, this specific peptide was identified first as a potential biomarker candidate in the serum of glaucoma patients and was significantly lower expressed in systemic IgG molecules compared to healthy control subjects. Furthermore, MS-based co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed the specific interaction of synthetic CDR1 with retinal acidic leucine-rich nuclear phosphoprotein 32A (ANP32A; p < 0.001 and log2 fold change > 3), which is a highly expressed protein in neurological tissues with multifactorial biological functions. In silico binding prediction analysis revealed the N-terminal leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain of ANP32A as a significant binding site for synthetic CDR1, which was previously reported as an important docking site for protein-protein interactions (PPI). In accordance with these findings, quantitative proteomic analysis of the retinae +/- CDR1 treatment resulted in the identification of 25 protein markers, which were significantly differentially distributed between both experimental groups (CTRL and CDR1, p < 0.05). Particularly, acetyl-CoA biosynthesis I-related enzymes (e.g., DLAT and PDHA1), as well as cytoskeleton-regulating proteins (e.g., MSN), were highly expressed by synthetic CDR1 treatment in the retina; on the contrary, direct ANP32A-interacting proteins (e.g., NME1 and PPP2R4), as well as neurodegenerative-related markers (e.g., CEND1), were identified with significant lower abundancy in the CDR1-treated retinae compared to CTRL. Furthermore, retinal protein phosphorylation and histone acetylation were also affected by synthetic CDR1, which are both partially controlled by ANP32A. In conclusion, the synthetic CDR1 peptide provides a great translational potential for the treatment of glaucoma in the future by eliciting its neuroprotective mechanism via specific interaction with ANP32A's N terminal LRR domain.
PXD042667	37511044	Using a Dual CRISPR/Cas9 Approach to Gain Insight into the Role of LRP1B in Glioblastoma. 	Using a Dual CRISPR/Cas9 Approach to Gain Insight into the Role of LRP1B in Glioblastoma	CRISPR/Cas9, LRP1B, glioblastoma, ploidy, secretome	LRP1B remains one of the most altered genes in cancer, although its relevance in cancer biology is still unclear. Recent advances in gene editing techniques, particularly CRISPR/Cas9 systems, offer new opportunities to evaluate the function of large genes, such as LRP1B. Using a dual sgRNA CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing approach, this study aimed to assess the impact of disrupting LRP1B in glioblastoma cell biology. Four sgRNAs were designed for the dual targeting of two LRP1B exons (1 and 85). The U87 glioblastoma (GB) cell line was transfected with CRISPR/Cas9 PX459 vectors. To assess LRP1B-gene-induced alterations and expression, PCR, Sanger DNA sequencing, and qRT-PCR were carried out. Three clones (clones B9, E6, and H7) were further evaluated. All clones presented altered cellular morphology, increased cellular and nuclear size, and changes in ploidy. Two clones (E6 and H7) showed a significant decrease in cell growth, both in vitro and in the in vivo CAM assay. Proteomic analysis of the clones' secretome identified differentially expressed proteins that had not been previously associated with LRP1B alterations. This study demonstrates that the dual sgRNA CRISPR/Cas9 strategy can effectively edit LRP1B in GB cells, providing new insights into the impact of LRP1B deletions in GBM biology.
PXD042875	37511137	Integrative Multi-Omics Analysis of Oncogenic EZH2 Mutants: From Epigenetic Reprogramming to Molecular Signatures. 	Bottom-up proteomics of EZH2 mutants in isogenic cells	EZH2, epigenetics, leukemia, lymphoma, mutations	Somatic heterozygous mutations in the active site of the enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) are prevalent in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The methyltransferase activity of EZH2 towards lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27) and non-histone proteins is dysregulated by the presence of gain-of-function (GOF) and loss-of-function (LOF) mutations altering chromatin compaction, protein complex recruitment, and transcriptional regulation. In this study, a comprehensive multi-omics approach was carried out to characterize the effects of differential H3K27me3 deposition driven by EZH2 mutations. Three stable isogenic mutants (EZH2(Y641F), EZH2(A677G), and EZH2H(689A/F667I)) were examined using EpiProfile, H3K27me3 CUT&Tag, ATAC-Seq, transcriptomics, label-free proteomics, and untargeted metabolomics. A discrete set of genes and downstream targets were identified for the EZH2 GOF and LOF mutants that impacted pathways involved in cellular proliferation, differentiation, and migration. Disruption of protein networks and metabolic signatures able to sustain aberrant cell behavior was observed in response to EZH2 mutations. This systems biology-based analysis sheds light on EZH2-mediated cell transformative processes, from the epigenetic to the phenotypic level. These studies provide novel insights into aberrant EZH2 function along with targets that can be explored for improved diagnostics/treatment in hematologic malignancies with mutated EZH2.
PXD037439	37511223	Proteomics Reveals How the Tardigrade Damage Suppressor Protein Teaches Transfected Human Cells to Survive UV-C Stress. 	Proteomics reveals how the tardigrade damage suppressor protein teaches transfected human cells to survive UV-C stress	DNA damage response, Dsup, stress granules, telomere lenght	The genome sequencing of the tardigrade Ramazzottius varieornatus revealed a unique nucleosome-binding protein named damage suppressor (Dsup), which was discovered to be crucial for the extraordinary abilities of tardigrades in surviving extreme stresses, such as UV. Evidence in Dsup-transfected human cells suggests that Dsup mediates an overall response in DNA damage signaling, DNA repair, and cell cycle regulation, resulting in an acquired resistance to stress. Given these promising outcomes, our study attempts to provide a wider comprehension of the molecular mechanisms modulated by Dsup in human cells and to explore the Dsup-activated molecular pathways under stress. We performed a differential proteomic analysis of Dsup-transfected and control human cells under basal conditions and at 24 h recovery after exposure to UV-C. We demonstrate via enrichment and network analyses, for the first time, that even in the absence of external stimuli, and more significantly, after stress, Dsup activates mechanisms involved with the unfolded protein response, the mRNA processing and stability, cytoplasmic stress granules, the DNA damage response, and the telomere maintenance. In conclusion, our results shed new light on Dsup-mediated protective mechanisms and increases our knowledge of the molecular machineries of extraordinary protection against UV-C stress.
PXD042044	37511481	Bifidobacterium infantis-Mediated Herpes Simplex Virus-TK/Ganciclovir Treatment Inhibits Cancer Metastasis in Mouse Model. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of gastric cancer cells treated by bifidobacterium infantis-mediated herpes simplex virus-TK/ganciclovir.	bifidobacterium, bioinformatics, ganciclovir, gastric cancer, thymidine kinase, tumor metastasis	Previous studies have found that Bifidobacterium infantis-mediated herpes simplex virus-TK/ganciclovir (BF-TK/GCV) reduces the expression of VEGF and CD146, implying tumor metastasis inhibition. However, the mechanism by which BF-TK/GCV inhibits tumor metastasis is not fully studied. Here, we comprehensively identified and quantified protein expression profiling for the first time in gastric cancer (GC) cells MKN-45 upon BF-TK/GCV treatment using quantitative proteomics. A total of 159 and 72 differential expression proteins (DEPs) were significantly changed in the BF-TK/GCV/BF-TK and BF-TK/GCV/BF/GCV comparative analysis. Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis enriched some metastasis-related pathways such as gap junction and cell adhesion molecules pathways. Moreover, the transwell assay proved that BF-TK/GCV inhibited the invasion and migration of tumor cells. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry (IHC) demonstrated that BF-TK/GCV reduced the expression of HIF-1alpha, mTOR, NF-kappaB1-p105, VCAM1, MMP13, CXCL12, ATG16, and CEBPB, which were associated with tumor metastasis. In summary, BF-TK/GCV inhibited tumor metastasis, which deepened and expanded the understanding of the antitumor mechanism of BF-TK/GCV.
PXD036265	37511580	Kinase Suppressor of RAS 1 (KSR1) Maintains the Transformed Phenotype of BRAFV600E Mutant Human Melanoma Cells. 	(Full Proteome) Kinase Suppressor of RAS 1 (KSR1) maintains the transformed phenotype of  BRAFV600E mutant human melanoma cells	Cancer, KSR1, Proteomics., RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway	Kinase Suppressor of RAS 1 (KSR1) is a scaffolding protein for the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway, which is one of the most frequently altered pathways in human cancers. Previous results have shown that KSR1 has a critical role in mutant RAS-mediated transformation. Here, we examined the role of KSR1 in mutant BRAF transformation. We used CRISPR/Cas9 to knock out KSR1 in a BRAFV600E-transformed melanoma cell line. KSR1 loss produced a complex phenotype characterised by impaired proliferation, cell cycle defects, decreased transformation, decreased invasive migration, increased cellular senescence, and increased apoptosis. To decipher this phenotype, we used a combination of proteomic ERK substrate profiling, global protein expression profiling, and biochemical validation assays. The results suggest that KSR1 directs ERK to phosphorylate substrates that have a critical role in ensuring cell survival. The results further indicate that KSR1 loss induces the activation of p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) and subsequent cell cycle aberrations and senescence. In summary, KSR1 function plays a key role in oncogenic BRAF transformation.
PXD049107	37513479	Phosphoproteome Profiling of uEVs Reveals p-AQP2 and p-GSK3beta as Potential Markers for Diabetic Nephropathy. 	[HPP-2.0] Phosphoproteome Profiling of uEV Reveals p-AQP2 and p-GSK3beta as Potential Markers for Diabetic Nephropathy	biomarker, diabetic nephropathy, phosphoproteome, urinary extracellular vesicles	Diabetic nephropathy (DN) contributes to increased morbidity and mortality among patients with diabetes and presents a considerable global health challenge. However, reliable biomarkers of DN have not yet been established. Phosphorylated proteins are crucial for disease progression. However, their diagnostic potential remains unexplored. In this study, we used ultra-high-sensitivity quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify phosphoproteins in urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) as potential biomarkers of DN. We detected 233 phosphopeptides within the uEVs, with 47 phosphoproteins exhibiting significant alterations in patients with DN compared to those in patients with diabetes. From these phosphoproteins, we selected phosphorylated aquaporin-2 (p-AQP2[S256]) and phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (p-GSK3beta[Y216]) for validation, as they were significantly overrepresented in pathway analyses and previously implicated in DN pathogenesis. Both phosphoproteins were successfully confirmed through Phos-tag western blotting in uEVs and immunohistochemistry staining in kidney sections, suggesting that phosphoprotein alterations in uEVs reflect corresponding changes within the kidney and their potential as candidate biomarkers for DN. Our research proposes the utilization of phosphoproteins in uEVs as a liquid biopsy, presenting a highly feasible diagnostic tool for kidney disease.
PXD042208	37515107	Kunjin Virus, Zika Virus, and Yellow Fever Virus Infections Have Distinct Effects on the Coding Transcriptome and Proteome of Brain-Derived U87 Cells. 	Effect of Flavivirus infections on host cell gene and protein expression	Flavivirus infection, Yellow Fever, Zika, human protein expression	As obligate intracellular parasites, viruses rely heavily on host cells for replication, and therefore dysregulate several cellular processes for their benefit. In return, host cells activate multiple signaling pathways to limit viral replication and eradicate viruses. The present study explores the complex interplay between viruses and host cells through next generation RNA sequencing as well as mass spectrometry (SILAC). Both the coding transcriptome and the proteome of human brain-derived U87 cells infected with Kunjin virus, Zika virus, or Yellow Fever virus were compared to the transcriptome and the proteome of mock-infected cells. Changes in the abundance of several hundred mRNAs and proteins were found in each infection. Moreover, the alternative splicing of hundreds of mRNAs was found to be modulated upon viral infection. Interestingly, a significant disconnect between the changes in the transcriptome and those in the proteome of infected cells was observed. These findings provide a global view of the coding transcriptome and the proteome of Flavivirus-infected cells, leading to a better comprehension of Flavivirus-host interactions.
PXD040089	37516113	Paralog-dependent isogenic cell assay cascade generates highly selective SLC16A3 inhibitors. 	Selectivity profiling of SLC16A3/MCT4 inhibitor slCeMM1 using photoaffinity probe	AP-MS, TMT, chemoproteomics, photoaffinity probe	Despite being considered druggable and attractive therapeutic targets, most of the solute carrier (SLC) membrane transporters remain pharmacologically underexploited. One of the reasons for this is a lack of reliable chemical screening assays, made difficult by functional redundancies among SLCs. In this study we leveraged synthetic lethality between the lactate transporters SLC16A1 and SLC16A3 in a screening strategy that we call paralog-dependent isogenic cell assay (PARADISO). The system involves five isogenic cell lines, each dependent on various paralog genes for survival/fitness, arranged in a screening cascade tuned for the identification of SLC16A3 inhibitors. We screened a diversity-oriented library of ~90,000 compounds and further developed our hits into slCeMM1, a paralog-selective and potent SLC16A3 inhibitor. By implementing chemoproteomics, we showed that slCeMM1 is selective also at the proteome-wide level, thus fulfilling an important criterion for chemical probes. This study represents a framework for the development of specific cell-based drug discovery assays.
PXD041772	37516743	Astaxanthin and DHA supplementation ameliorates the proteomic profile of perinatal undernutrition-induced adipose tissue dysfunction in adult life. 	Astaxanthin and DHA ameliorates adipose tissue dysfunction - A proteomics approach	Adipocytes, Perinatal undernourishment	Maternal diet is an essential factor that directly and indirectly regulates fetal growth. Exposure to certain environmental conditions substantially impacts an individual's short- and long-term health. Adipose tissue dysfunction is a worldwide chronic disease caused by improper lipid build-up in adipose tissue leading to obesity. Therefore, it is the need of the hour to invent anti-obesity agents. As a keto-carotenoid, Astaxanthin (AsX) has been shown to have preventive effects against problems associated with obesity. A crucial role in the pathogenesis of obesity has been attributed to dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids. Adipose tissue plays a vital role in maintaining overall body homeostasis. Metabolic dysfunction of white adipocytes forms a critical step in the emergence of insulin resistance and related diseases. Here we aim to investigate the effect of AsX and Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) supplementation on the proteomic profile of perinatal undernutrition-induced adipose tissue dysfunction in adult life using a rat model. The LC-MS/MS quantitative proteomics enabled us to identify differentially expressed proteins in perinatal undernourished but AsX and DHA-supplemented animal models. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD041772.This study explored biological roles, molecular functions of differentially expressed proteins, and pathways related to adipose tissue dysfunction induced by undernutrition and its effective modulation by AsX and DHA.
PXD042584	37516774	Cryo-EM structure of a RAS/RAF recruitment complex. 	CXMS BS3 Ras/BRAF/MEK/1433 complex	14-3-3, Braf, CXMS, Kras, Mek1, SF9	RAF-family kinases are activated by recruitment to the plasma membrane by GTP-bound RAS, whereupon they initiate signaling through the MAP kinase cascade. Prior structural studies of KRAS with RAF have focused on the isolated RAS-binding and cysteine-rich domains of RAF (RBD and CRD, respectively), which interact directly with RAS. Here we describe cryo-EM structures of a KRAS bound to intact BRAF in an autoinhibited state with MEK1 and a 14-3-3 dimer. Analysis of this KRAS/BRAF/MEK1/14-3-3 complex reveals KRAS bound to the RAS-binding domain of BRAF, captured in two orientations. Core autoinhibitory interactions in the complex are unperturbed by binding of KRAS and in vitro activation studies confirm that KRAS binding is insufficient to activate BRAF, absent membrane recruitment. These structures illustrate the separability of binding and activation of BRAF by RAS and suggest stabilization of this pre-activation intermediate as an alternative therapeutic strategy to blocking binding of KRAS.
PXD030141	37516825	METTL1 promotes tumorigenesis through tRNA-derived fragment biogenesis in prostate cancer. 	Guanosine-7 tRNA methylation steers tRNA-derived fragment biogenesis and translational control in prostate cancer	7-methylguanosine, Epitranscriptome, RNA modifications, cancer, prostate cancer, protein synthesis, tRNA fragments, tRNAs, translatome	Newly growing evidence highlights the essential role that epitranscriptomic marks play in the development of many cancers; however, little is known about the role and implications of altered epitranscriptome deposition in prostate cancer. Here, we show that the transfer RNA N(7)-methylguanosine (m(7)G) transferase METTL1 is highly expressed in primary and advanced prostate tumours. Mechanistically, we find that METTL1 depletion causes the loss of m(7)G tRNA methylation and promotes the biogenesis of a novel class of small non-coding RNAs derived from 5'tRNA fragments. 5'tRNA-derived small RNAs steer translation control to favour the synthesis of key regulators of tumour growth suppression, interferon pathway, and immune effectors. Knockdown of Mettl1 in prostate cancer preclinical models increases intratumoural infiltration of pro-inflammatory immune cells and enhances responses to immunotherapy. Collectively, our findings reveal a therapeutically actionable role of METTL1-directed m(7)G tRNA methylation in cancer cell translation control and tumour biology.
PXD040760	37519262	RNF26 binds perinuclear vimentin filaments to integrate ER and endolysosomal responses to proteotoxic stress. 	Perinuclear Vimentin-RNF26 contacts integrate ER and endosomal responses to ER stress	ER stress, RNF26, Vimentin, endosomes, intermediate filaments	Proteotoxic stress causes profound endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane remodeling into a perinuclear quality control compartment (ERQC) for the degradation of misfolded proteins. Subsequent return to homeostasis involves clearance of the ERQC by endolysosomes. However, the factors that control perinuclear ER integrity and dynamics remain unclear. Here, we identify vimentin intermediate filaments as perinuclear anchors for the ER and endolysosomes. We show that perinuclear vimentin filaments engage the ER-embedded RING finger protein 26 (RNF26) at the C-terminus of its RING domain. This restricts RNF26 to perinuclear ER subdomains and enables the corresponding spatial retention of endolysosomes through RNF26-mediated membrane contact sites (MCS). We find that both RNF26 and vimentin are required for the perinuclear coalescence of the ERQC and its juxtaposition with proteolytic compartments, which facilitates efficient recovery from ER stress via the Sec62-mediated ER-phagy pathway. Collectively, our findings reveal a scaffolding mechanism that underpins the spatiotemporal integration of organelles during cellular proteostasis.
PXD040371	37520282	Autophagy and biotransformation affect sorafenib resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Autophagy and biotransformation affect sorafenib resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma	Autophagy, Biotransformation, Sorafenib Resistance	As sorafenib is a first-line drug for treating advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, sorafenib resistance has historically attracted attention. However, most of this attention has been focused on a series of mechanisms related to drug resistance arising after sorafenib treatment. In this study, we used proteomic techniques to explore the potential mechanisms by which pretreatment factors affect sorafenib resistance. The degree of redundant pathway PI3K/AKT activation, biotransformation capacity, and autophagy level in hepatocellular carcinoma patients prior to sorafenib treatment might affect their sensitivity to sorafenib, in which ADH1A and STING1 are key molecules. These three factors could interact mechanistically to promote tumor cell survival, might be malignant features of tumor cells, and are associated with hepatocellular carcinoma prognosis. Our study suggests possible avenues of therapeutic intervention for patients with sorafenib-resistance and the potential application of immunotherapy with the aim of improving the survival of such patients.
PXD043594	37520295	Transendothelial electrical resistance measurement by a microfluidic device for functional study of endothelial barriers in inflammatory bowel disease. 	Proteomic profiling of IBD circulating exosomes	Inflammatory bowel disease, Proteomic profiling, serum exosome	Introduction: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic relapsing and remitting disease with a rising incidence globally. Circulating exosomes play great roles in IBD pathogenesis through exosomal cargoes, especially impacting the function of endothelial barriers. Transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) measurement is a widely used non-invasive and label-free strategy to monitor endothelial barrier function in vitro. This study established a well-designed microfluidic device to monitor the TEER changes of endothelial cellular barrier on-chip after treated with exosome derived from IBD serum. Methods: The chip comprised two layers of microfluidic chambers with top layer for the perfusion of medium to maintain the nutrition and pressure during cell culture, and bottom layer for the extracellular matrix mimic using hydrogel, which are separated by a semipermeable membrane that permitted the formation of endothelial cell barrier. Four electrodes independent from the outlets were integrated to the chip for TEER detection. In vivo mouse models mouse models and proteome profiling were performed to finding relevant regulators. Results: With this platform, significant decrease of TEER was detected, indicating that IBD serum exosome impact the endothelial cellular barrier on-chip. In vivo mouse models, IBD serum exosome treated group showed great higher DAI scores, shorter colons, more severe histological features, and higher levers of S100A8 expression, promoting the disease progress. Proteome profiling showed that TFRC and ANXA5 have great potentials as novel regulators in IBD. Discussion: This in-house customized microfluidic chip emulates the endothelial barrier microenvironment and enables the TEER monitoring, and can be used to investigate endothelial barrier function in vitro. IBD serum exosome promote the severity of disease.
PXD040929	37520367	Iron or sulfur respiration-an adaptive choice determining the fitness of a natronophilic bacterium Dethiobacter alkaliphilus in geochemically contrasting environments. 	Iron and thiosulfate respiration in a natronophile Dethiobacter alkaliphilus	Dethiobacter alkaliphilus	Haloalkaliphilic microorganisms are double extremophiles functioning optimally at high salinity and pH. Their typical habitats are soda lakes, geologically ancient yet widespread ecosystems supposed to harbor relict microbial communities. We compared metabolic features and their determinants in two strains of the natronophilic species Dethiobacter alkaliphilus, the only cultured representative of the class "Dethiobacteria" (Bacillota). The strains of D. alkaliphilus were previously isolated from geographically remote Mongolian and Kenyan soda lakes. The type strain AHT1(T) was described as a facultative chemolithoautotrophic sulfidogen reducing or disproportionating sulfur or thiosulfate, while strain Z-1002 was isolated as a chemolithoautotrophic iron reducer. Here, we uncovered the iron reducing ability of strain AHT1(T) and the ability of strain Z-1002 for thiosulfate reduction and anaerobic Fe(II) oxidation. Key catabolic processes sustaining the growth of both D. alkaliphilus strains appeared to fit the geochemical settings of two contrasting natural alkaline environments, sulfur-enriched soda lakes and iron-enriched serpentinites. This hypothesis was supported by a meta-analysis of Dethiobacterial genomes and by the enrichment of a novel phylotype from a subsurface alkaline aquifer under Fe(III)-reducing conditions. Genome analysis revealed multiheme c-type cytochromes to be the most probable determinants of iron and sulfur redox transformations in D. alkaliphilus. Phylogeny reconstruction showed that all the respiratory processes in this organism are likely provided by evolutionarily related early forms of unconventional octaheme tetrathionate and sulfite reductases and their structural analogs, OmhA/OcwA Fe(III)-reductases. Several phylogenetically related determinants of anaerobic Fe(II) oxidation were identified in the Z-1002 genome, and the oxidation process was experimentally demonstrated. Proteomic profiling revealed two distinct sets of multiheme cytochromes upregulated in iron(III)- or thiosulfate-respiring cells and the cytochromes peculiar for Fe(II) oxidizing cells. We suggest that maintaining high variation in multiheme cytochromes is an effective adaptive strategy to occupy geochemically contrasting alkaline environments. We propose that sulfur-enriched soda lakes could be secondary habitats for D. alkaliphilus compared to Fe-rich serpentinites, and that the ongoing evolution of Dethiobacterales could retrace the evolutionary path that may have occurred in prokaryotes at a turning point in the biosphere's history, when the intensification of the sulfur cycle outweighed the global significance of the iron cycle.
PXD042212	37520434	Unravelling potential biomarkers for acute and chronic brucellosis through proteomic and bioinformatic approaches. 	Unraveling Potential Biomarkers for Acute and Chronic Brucellosis Through Proteomic and Bioinformatic Approaches	bioinformatics, biomarkers, brucellosis, differential expression analysis, enrichment analysis, random forest model, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA)	Introduction: This study aimed to identify biomarkers for acute and chronic brucellosis using advanced proteomic and bioinformatic methods. Methods: Blood samples from individuals with acute brucellosis, chronic brucellosis, and healthy controls were analyzed. Proteomic techniques and differential expression analysis were used to identify differentially expressed proteins. Co-expression modules associated with brucellosis traits were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Results: 763 differentially expressed proteins were identified, and two co-expression modules were found to be significantly associated with brucellosis traits. 25 proteins were differentially expressed in all three comparisons, and 20 hub proteins were identified. Nine proteins were found to be both differentially expressed and hub proteins, indicating their potential significance. A random forest model based on these nine proteins showed good classification performance. Discussion: The identified proteins are involved in processes such as inflammation, coagulation, extracellular matrix regulation, and immune response. They provide insights into potential therapeutic targets and diagnostic biomarkers for brucellosis. This study improves our understanding of brucellosis at the molecular level and paves the way for further research in targeted therapies and diagnostics.
PXD039313	37521047	DPHL v.2: An updated and comprehensive DIA pan-human assay library for quantifying more than 14,000 proteins. 	DPHL v2: An updated and comprehensive DIA pan-human assay library for quantifying more than 14,000 proteins	Cancer, Data-independent acquisition, Spectral library, Targeted proteomics	A comprehensive pan-human spectral library is critical for biomarker discovery using mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics. DPHL v.1, a previous pan-human library built from 1,096 data-dependent acquisition (DDA) MS data of 16 human tissue types, allows quantifying of 10,943 proteins. Here, we generated DPHL v.2 from 1,608 DDA-MS data. The data included 586 DDA-MS data acquired from 18 tissue types, while 1,022 files were derived from DPHL v.1. DPHL v.2 thus comprises data from 24 sample types, including several cancer types (lung, breast, kidney, and prostate cancer, among others). We generated four variants of DPHL v.2 to include semi-tryptic peptides and protein isoforms. DPHL v.2 was then applied to two colorectal cancer cohorts. The numbers of identified and significantly dysregulated proteins increased by at least 21.7% and 14.2%, respectively, compared with DPHL v.1. Our findings show that the increased human proteome coverage of DPHL v.2 provides larger pools of potential protein biomarkers.
PXD041140	37521327	MAVS Antagonizes Human Stem Cell Senescence as a Mitochondrial Stabilizer. 	LC-MS/MS identification of MAVS-interacting proteins		Mitochondrial dysfunction is a hallmark feature of cellular senescence and organ aging. Here, we asked whether the mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), which is essential for driving antiviral response, also regulates human stem cell senescence. To answer this question, we used CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing and directed differentiation techniques to generate various MAVS-knockout human stem cell models. We found that human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) were sensitive to MAVS deficiency, as manifested by accelerated senescence phenotypes. We uncovered that the role of MAVS in maintaining mitochondrial structural integrity and functional homeostasis depends on its interaction with the guanosine triphosphatase optic atrophy type 1 (OPA1). Depletion of MAVS or OPA1 led to the dysfunction of mitochondria and cellular senescence, whereas replenishment of MAVS or OPA1 in MAVS-knockout hMSCs alleviated mitochondrial defects and premature senescence phenotypes. Taken together, our data underscore an uncanonical role of MAVS in safeguarding mitochondrial homeostasis and antagonizing human stem cell senescence.
PXD039246	37522762	Human herpesvirus 8 ORF57 protein is able to reduce TDP-43 pathology: network analysis identifies interacting pathways. 	Repurposing Herpesvirus Protein ORF57 to Inhibit TDP-43 Aggregation	ALS, Alzheimer's disease, TDP-43, protein aggregation, translational stress response	Aggregation of TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) is thought to drive the pathophysiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and some frontotemporal dementias. TDP-43 is normally a nuclear protein that in neurons translocates to the cytoplasm and can form insoluble aggregates upon activation of the integrated stress response (ISR). Viruses evolved to control the ISR. In the case of Herpesvirus 8, the protein ORF57 acts to bind protein kinase R, inhibit phosphorylation of eIF2alpha and reduce activation of the ISR. We hypothesized that ORF57 might also possess the ability to inhibit aggregation of TDP-43. ORF57 was expressed in the neuronal SH-SY5Y line and its effects on TDP-43 aggregation characterized. We report that ORF57 inhibits TDP-43 aggregation by 55% and elicits a 2.45-fold increase in the rate of dispersion of existing TDP-43 granules. These changes were associated with a 50% decrease in cell death. Proteomic studies were carried out to identify the protein interaction network of ORF57. We observed that ORF57 directly binds to TDP-43 as well as interacts with many components of the ISR, including elements of the proteostasis machinery known to reduce TDP-43 aggregation. We propose that viral proteins designed to inhibit a chronic ISR can be engineered to remove aggregated proteins and dampen a chronic ISR.
PXD042554	37524462	Establishment and clinical application evaluations of a deep mining strategy of plasma proteomics based on nanomaterial protein coronas. 	Establishment and clinical application evaluations of a deep mining strategy of plasma proteomics based on nanomaterial protein coronas	LC-MS, Plasma proteomics, deep mining beads, multiple system atrophy, protein corona	Research on plasma proteomics has received extensive attention, because human plasma is an important sample for disease biomarker research due to its easy clinical accessibility and richness in biological information. Plasma samples contain a large number of leaked proteins from different tissues in the body, immune proteins and communication signal proteins. However, MS signal suppression from high-abundance proteins results in a large number of proteins that are present in low abundance in plasma not being detected by the LC-MS method. This situation makes it more difficult to study neurological diseases, where tissue sampling is difficult and body fluid samples such as plasma or cerebrospinal fluid are both affected by signal suppression. A large number of methods have been developed to deeply mine plasma proteomics information; however, their application limitations remain to some extent. Traditional immuno- or affinity-based depletion, fractionation and subproteome enrichment methods cannot meet the challenges of large clinical cohort applications due to limited time efficiency. In this study, a deep mining strategy of plasma proteomics was established by combing the protein corona formed by deep mining beads (DMB beads, hereafter referred to as magnetic covalent organic frameworks Fe3O4@TpPa-1), DIA-MS detection and the DIA-NN library searching method. By optimizing the enrichment step, mass spectrometry acquisition and data processing, the evaluation results of the deep mining strategy showed the following: depth, the strategy identified and quantified results of 2000+ proteins per plasma sample; stability, more than 87% of the enriched low-abundance proteins had CV < 20%; accuracy, good agreement between measured and theoretical values (1.81/2, 8.68/10, 38.36/50) for the gradient addition of E. coli proteins to a plasma sample; time efficiency, the processing time was reduced from >12h in the traditional method to <5h (incubation 30 min, washing 15 min, reductive/alkylation/digestion/desalting 4 h), and more importantly, 96 samples can be processed simultaneously in combination with the magnetic module of the automated device. The optimal strategy enables greater enrichment of neurological disease-related proteins, including SNCA and BDNF. Finally, the deep mining strategy was applied in a pilot study of multiple system atrophy (MSA) for biomarker discovery. The results showed that a total of 215 proteins were upregulated and 184 proteins were downregulated (p < 0.05) in the MSA group compared with the healthy control group. Eighteen proteins of these differentially expressed proteins were reported to be associated with neurological diseases or expressed specifically in brain tissue, 8 and 4 of which have reference concentrations of mug/L and ng/L, respectively. The alterations of ENPP2 and SLC2A1/Glut1 were reanalyzed by ELISA, further supporting the results of mass spectrometry. In conclusion, the results of the evaluation and application of the deep mining strategy showed promise for clinical research applications.
PXD030127	37524790	SF3B1 hotspot mutations confer sensitivity to PARP inhibition by eliciting a defective replication stress response. 	K562 SF3B1 Mutants and Splicing	K562, MS3, SF3B1, TMT	SF3B1 hotspot mutations are associated with a poor prognosis in several tumor types and lead to global disruption of canonical splicing. Through synthetic lethal drug screens, we identify that SF3B1 mutant (SF3B1(MUT)) cells are selectively sensitive to poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi), independent of hotspot mutation and tumor site. SF3B1(MUT) cells display a defective response to PARPi-induced replication stress that occurs via downregulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase 2 interacting protein (CINP), leading to increased replication fork origin firing and loss of phosphorylated CHK1 (pCHK1; S317) induction. This results in subsequent failure to resolve DNA replication intermediates and G2/M cell cycle arrest. These defects are rescued through CINP overexpression, or further targeted by a combination of ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and PARP inhibition. In vivo, PARPi produce profound antitumor effects in multiple SF3B1(MUT) cancer models and eliminate distant metastases. These data provide the rationale for testing the clinical efficacy of PARPi in a biomarker-driven, homologous recombination proficient, patient population.
PXD040902	37526474	Determination of Protein Monoclonal-Antibody Epitopes by a Combination of Structural Proteomics Methods. 	Determination of protein monoclonal-antibody epitopes by a combination of  structural proteomics methods.	HDX, crosslinking, limited proteolysis, surface modification	Structural proteomics techniques are useful for the determination of protein interaction interfaces. Each technique provides orthogonal structural information on the structure and the location of protein interaction sites. Here, we have characterized a monoclonal antibody epitope for a protein antigen by a combination of differential photoreactive surface modification (SM), cross-linking (CL), differential hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HDX), and epitope extraction/excision. We found that experimental data from different approaches agree with each other in determining the epitope of the monoclonal antibody on the protein antigens using the HIV-1 p24-mAb E complex as an illustrative example. A combination of these multiple structural proteomics approaches results in a detailed picture of the interaction of the proteins and increases confidence in the determination of the final structure of the protein interaction interface. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD040902.
PXD038508	37527417	Dynamic Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry with Real-Time Retrospective Alignment. 	Dynamic Data Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry with Real-Time Retrospective Alignment	DIA, data independent acquisition	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry has grown in popularity in recent years, because of the reproducibility and quantitative rigor of a systematic tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) sampling method. However, traditional DIA methods may spend valuable instrument time acquiring MS/MS spectra with no usable information in them, affecting sensitivity and quantitative performance. We developed a DIA strategy that dynamically adjusts the MS/MS windows during the chromatographic separation. The method focuses MS/MS acquisition on the most relevant mass range at each point in time-increasing the quantitative sensitivity by increasing the time spent on each DIA window. We demonstrate an improved lower limit of quantification, on average, without sacrificing the number of peptides detected.
PXD043719	37528093	Cullin-associated and neddylation-dissociated protein 1 (CAND1) alleviates NAFLD by reducing ubiquitinated degradation of ACAA2. 	Cullin-associated and neddylation-dissociated protein 1 (CAND1) alleviates NAFLD by reducing ubiquitinated degradation of ACAA2	L02 cell	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disorder with high morbidity and mortality. The current study aims to explore the role of Cullin-associated and neddylation-dissociated protein 1 (CAND1) in the development of NAFLD and the underlying mechanisms. CAND1 is reduced in the liver of NAFLD male patients and high fat diet (HFD)-fed male mice. CAND1 alleviates palmitate (PA) induced lipid accumulation in vitro. Hepatocyte-specific knockout of CAND1 exacerbates HFD-induced liver injury in HFD-fed male mice, while hepatocyte-specific knockin of CAND1 ameliorates these pathological changes. Mechanistically, deficiency of CAND1 enhances the assembly of Cullin1, F-box only protein 42 (FBXO42) and acetyl-CoA acyltransferase 2 (ACAA2) complexes, and thus promotes the ubiquitinated degradation of ACAA2. ACAA2 overexpression abolishes the exacerbated effects of CAND1 deficiency on NAFLD. Additionally, androgen receptor binds to the -187 to -2000 promoter region of CAND1. Collectively, CAND1 mitigates NAFLD by inhibiting Cullin1/FBXO42 mediated ACAA2 degradation.
PXD041864	37528493	Proteome of urticating setae of Ochrogaster lunifer, a processionary caterpillar of medical and veterinary importance, including primary structures of putative toxins. 	Ochrogaster lunifer setae proteome	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Lepidoptera, ProteomeXchange project tag: Toxicoproteomics (B/D-HPP), equine amnionitis and foetal loss, processionary caterpillar, toxin	Ochrogaster lunifer (Lepidoptera: Notodontidae) is an Australian processionary caterpillar with detachable urticating setae that have a defensive function. These true setae induce inflammation when they contact human skin, and equine foetal loss syndrome if they are accidentally ingested by gravid horses. We used transcriptomics and proteomics to identify proteins and peptides present in and on urticating setae, which may include toxins that contribute to inflammation and/or foetal loss syndromes. This process identified 37 putative toxins, including multiple homologues of the honeybee venom peptide secapin, and proteins with similarity to odorant binding proteins, arylphorins, and the insect immune modulator Diedel. This work identifies candidate molecules that may contribute to the adverse effects of processionary caterpillar setae on human and animal health.
PXD041082	37531349	Threads of memory: Reviving the ornament of a dead child at the Neolithic village of Ba`ja (Jordan). 	Palaeoproteomics of archaeological shell beads	Palaeoproteomics, ancient proteins, archaeological shells, mollusc shells	In 2018, a well-constructed cist-type grave was discovered at Ba`ja, a Neolithic village (7,400-6,800 BCE) in Southern Jordan. Underneath multiple grave layers, an 8-year-old child was buried in a fetal position. Over 2,500 beads were found on the chest and neck, along with a double perforated stone pendant and a delicately engraved mother-of-pearl ring discovered among the concentration of beads. The first was found behind the neck, and the second on the chest. The meticulous documentation of the bead distribution indicated that the assemblage was a composite ornament that had gradually collapsed, partly due to the burying position. Our aim was to challenge time degradation and to reimagine the initial composition in order to best explore the significance of this symbolic category of material culture, not as mere group of beads, but as an ornamental creation with further aesthetic, artisanal and socioeconomic implications. The reconstruction results exceeded our expectations as it revealed an imposing multi-row necklace of complex structure and attractive design. Through multiple lines of evidence, we suggest that the necklace was created at Ba`ja, although significant parts of beads were made from exotic shells and stones, including fossil amber, an unprecedented material never attested before for this period. The retrieval of such an ornament from life and its attribution to a young dead child highlights the significant social status of this individual. Beyond the symbolic functions related to identity, the necklace is believed to have played a key role in performing the inhumation rituals, understood as a public event gathering families, relatives, and people from other villages. In this sense, the necklace is not seen as belonging completely to the realm of death but rather to the world of the living, materializing a collective memory and shared moments of emotions and social cohesion.
PXD042682	37532634	Proteomics and bioinformatics investigations to improve serological diagnosis of canine brucellosis. 	Proteomics and bioinformatics investigations to improve serological diagnosis of canine brucellosis	Bioinformatics, Brucella canis, Protein identification, Western blotting	PURPOSE: Brucella canis is pathogenic for dogs and humans. Serological diagnosis is a cost-effective approach for disease surveillance, but a major drawback of current serological tests is the cross-reactivity with other bacteria that results in false positive reactions. Development of indirect tests with improved sensitivity and specificity that use selected B. canis proteins instead of the whole antigen remain a priority. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A western blotting assay was developed to define the serum antibody patterns associated to infection using a panel of positive and negative dog sera. B. canis positive sera recognized immunogenic bands ranging from 7 to 30 kDa that were then submitted to ESI-LC-MS/MS and analyzed by bioinformatics tools. RESULTS: A total of 398 B. canis proteins were identified. Bioinformatics tools identified 16 non cytoplasmic immunogenic proteins predicted as non-homologous with the most important Brucella cross-reactive bacteria and nine B. canis proteins non-homologous to B. ovis; among the latter, one resulted non-homologous to B. melitensis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042682. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The western blotting test developed was able to distinguish between infected and non-infected animals and may serve as a confirmatory test for the serological diagnosis of B. canis. The mass spectrometry and in silico results lead to the identification of specific candidate antigens that pave the way for the development of more accurate indirect diagnostic tests.
PXD037655	37532709	Proteogenomic analysis reveals RNA as a source for tumor-agnostic neoantigen identification. 	Proteogenomic analysis reveals RNA as a source for tumor-agnostic neoantigen identification	HLA class I immunopeptidomics, human tumor, neoantigens, proteogenomics	Systemic pan-tumor analyses may reveal the significance of common features implicated in cancer immunogenicity and patient survival. Here, we provide a comprehensive multi-omics data set for 32 patients across 25 tumor types for proteogenomic-based discovery of neoantigens. By using an optimized computational approach, we discover a large number of tumor-specific and tumor-associated antigens. To create a pipeline for the identification of neoantigens in our cohort, we combine DNA and RNA sequencing with MS-based immunopeptidomics of tumor specimens, followed by the assessment of their immunogenicity and an in-depth validation process. We detect a broad variety of non-canonical HLA-binding peptides in the majority of patients demonstrating partially immunogenicity. Our validation process allows for the selection of 32 potential neoantigen candidates. The majority of neoantigen candidates originates from variants identified in the RNA data set, illustrating the relevance of RNA as a still understudied source of cancer antigens. This study underlines the importance of RNA-centered variant detection for the identification of shared biomarkers and potentially relevant neoantigen candidates.
PXD041332	37536384	Inhibitory and excitatory synaptic neuroadaptations in the diazepam tolerant brain. 	Inhibitory and Excitatory Synaptic Neuroadaptations in the diazepam tolerant brain 	Brain, TMT MS	Benzodiazepine (BZ) drugs treat seizures, anxiety, insomnia, and alcohol withdrawal by potentiating gamma2 subunit containing GABA type A receptors (GABAARs). BZ clinical use is hampered by tolerance and withdrawal symptoms including heightened seizure susceptibility, panic, and sleep disturbances. Here, we investigated inhibitory GABAergic and excitatory glutamatergic plasticity in mice tolerant to benzodiazepine sedation. Repeated diazepam (DZP) treatment diminished sedative effects and decreased DZP potentiation of GABAAR synaptic currents without impacting overall synaptic inhibition. While DZP did not alter gamma2-GABAAR subunit composition, there was a redistribution of extrasynaptic GABAARs to synapses, resulting in higher levels of synaptic BZ-insensitive alpha4-containing GABAARs and a concomitant reduction in tonic inhibition. Conversely, excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission was increased, and NMDAR subunits were upregulated at synaptic and total protein levels. Quantitative proteomics further revealed cortex neuroadaptations of key pro-excitatory mediators and synaptic plasticity pathways highlighted by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII), MAPK, and PKC signaling. Thus, reduced inhibitory GABAergic tone and elevated glutamatergic neurotransmission contribute to disrupted excitation/inhibition balance and reduced BZ therapeutic power with benzodiazepine tolerance.
PXD042696	37536521	Preomic profile of BxPC-3 cells after treatment with BRC4. 	Proteomic profile of BxPC3 cells after RAD51 inhibition by treatment with BRC4	BRC4., BxPC3 cells, Proteomie, RAD51	BRCA2 and RAD51 are two proteins that play a central role in homologous recombination (HR) and DNA double strand break (DSB) repair. BRCA2 assists RAD51 fibrillation and defibrillation through binding with its eight BRC repeats, with BRC4 being one of the most efficient and best characterized. RAD51 inactivation by small molecules has been proposed as a strategy to impair BRCA2/RAD51 binding and, ultimately, the HR pathway, with the aim of making cancer cells more sensitive to PARP inhibitors (PARPi). This strategy, which mimics a synthetic lethality (SL) approach, has been successfully performed in vitro by using the myristoylated derivative of BRC4 (myr-BRC4), designed for a more efficient cell entry. The present study applies a method to obtain a proteomic fingerprint after cellular treatment with the myr-BRC4 peptide using a mass spectroscopy (MS) proteomic approach. (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042696.) We performed a comparative proteomic profiling of the myr-BRC4 treated vs. untreated BxPC-3 pancreatic cancer cells and evaluated the differential expression of proteins. Among the identified proteins, we focused our attention on proteins shared by both the RAD51 and the BRCA2 interactomes, and on those whose reduction showed high statistical significance. Three downregulated proteins were identified (FANCI, FANCD2, and RPA3), and protein downregulation was confirmed through immunoblotting analysis, validating the MS approach. Our results suggest that, being a direct consequence of myr-BRC4 treatment, the detection of FANCD2, FANCI, and RPA3 downregulation could be used as an indicator for monitoring HR impairment. SIGNIFICANCE: RAD51's inhibition has gained increasing attention because of its possible implications in personalized medicine through the SL approach. Chemical disruption of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) between RAD51 and BRCA2, or some of its partner proteins, could potentiate PARPi DNA damage-induced cell death. This could have application for difficult to treat cancers, such as BRCA-competent and olaparib (PARPi) resistant pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Despite RAD51 being a widely studied target, researchers still lack detailed mechanistic information. This has stifled progress in the field with only a few RAD51 inhibitors having been identified, none of which have gained regulatory approval. Nevertheless, the peptide BRC4 is one of the most specific and best characterized RAD51 binder and inhibitor reported to date. Our study is the first to report the proteomic fingerprint consequent to cellular treatment of myr-BRC4, to offer a reference for the discovery of specific protein/pathway alterations within DNA damage repair. Our results suggest that, being a direct consequence of myr-BRC4 treatment, and ultimately ofBRCA2/RAD51 disruption, the detection of FANCD2, FANCI, and RPA3 downregulation could be used as an indicator for monitoring DNA damage repair impairment and therefore be used to potentiate the development of new effective therapeutic strategies.
PXD041073	37537273	Cholesterol modulates the physiological response to nanoparticles by changing the composition of protein corona. 	Cholesterol modulates the physiological response of nanoparticles by governing protein corona	apolipoproteins, cholesterol, metabolite, nanoparticles, precision nanomedicine, protein corona	Nanoparticles (NPs) in biological fluids form a layer of biomolecules known as the protein corona. The protein corona has been shown to determine the biological identity and in vivo fate of NPs, but whether and how metabolites, especially disease-related small molecules, regulate the protein corona and subsequently impact NP fate in vivo is relatively poorly understood. Here we report on the effects of cholesterol on the generation of protein corona and subsequent effects. We find that high levels of cholesterol, as in hypercholesterolemia, result in a protein corona with enriched apolipoproteins and reduced complement proteins by altering the binding affinity of the proteins to the NPs. The cholesterol-mediated protein corona can induce stronger inflammatory responses to NPs in macrophages and promote the cellular uptake of NPs in hepatocytes by enhancing the recognition of lipoprotein receptors when compared with normal protein corona. The result of in vivo biodistribution assays shows that, compared with healthy mice, NPs in hypercholesterolemic mice were more likely to be delivered to the liver, spleen and brain, and less likely to be delivered to the lungs. Our findings reveal that the metabolome profile is an unexploited factor impacting the target efficacy and safety of nanomedicines, providing a way to develop personalized nanomedicines by harnessing disease-related metabolites.
PXD024958	37537299	WNTinib is a multi-kinase inhibitor with specificity against beta-catenin mutant hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Phosphoproteomic profiling of WNTinib	HCC tumour organoid, TMT, phosphoproteomics	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. beta-Catenin (CTNNB1)-mutated HCC represents 30% of cases of the disease with no precision therapeutics available. Using chemical libraries derived from clinical multi-kinase inhibitor (KI) scaffolds, we screened HCC organoids to identify WNTinib, a KI with exquisite selectivity in CTNNB1-mutated human and murine models, including patient samples. Multiomic and target engagement analyses, combined with rescue experiments and in vitro and in vivo efficacy studies, revealed that WNTinib is superior to clinical KIs and inhibits KIT/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling at multiple nodes. Moreover, we demonstrate that reduced engagement on BRAF and p38alpha kinases by WNTinib relative to several multi-KIs is necessary to avoid compensatory feedback signaling-providing a durable and selective transcriptional repression of mutant beta-catenin/Wnt targets through nuclear translocation of the EZH2 transcriptional repressor. Our studies uncover a previously unknown mechanism to harness the KIT/MAPK/EZH2 pathway to potently and selectively antagonize CTNNB1-mutant HCC with an unprecedented wide therapeutic index.
PXD043026	37540201	Ionmob: a Python package for prediction of peptide collisional cross-section values. 	Ionmob: A Python Package for Prediction of Peptide Collisional Cross-Section Values	CCS, Collisional Cross-Section, Ion mobility, immunopeptides, phosphopeptides, prediction, timsTOF	MOTIVATION: Including ion mobility separation (IMS) into mass spectrometry proteomics experiments is useful to improve coverage and throughput. Many IMS devices enable linking experimentally derived mobility of an ion to its collisional cross-section (CCS), a highly reproducible physicochemical property dependent on the ion's mass, charge and conformation in the gas phase. Thus, known peptide ion mobilities can be used to tailor acquisition methods or to refine database search results. The large space of potential peptide sequences, driven also by posttranslational modifications of amino acids, motivates an in silico predictor for peptide CCS. Recent studies explored the general performance of varying machine-learning techniques, however, the workflow engineering part was of secondary importance. For the sake of applicability, such a tool should be generic, data driven, and offer the possibility to be easily adapted to individual workflows for experimental design and data processing. RESULTS: We created ionmob, a Python-based framework for data preparation, training, and prediction of collisional cross-section values of peptides. It is easily customizable and includes a set of pretrained, ready-to-use models and preprocessing routines for training and inference. Using a set of =~21 000 unique phosphorylated peptides and =~17 000 MHC ligand sequences and charge state pairs, we expand upon the space of peptides that can be integrated into CCS prediction. Lastly, we investigate the applicability of in silico predicted CCS to increase confidence in identified peptides by applying methods of re-scoring and demonstrate that predicted CCS values complement existing predictors for that task. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The Python package is available at github: https://github.com/theGreatHerrLebert/ionmob.
PXD035250	37540694	In vivo Polycystin-1 interactome using a novel Pkd1 knock-in mouse model. 	In vivo polycystin-1 interactome using heads of Pkd1 knock-in newborn mice	Interactome, Pkd1, Pkd1 knock-in mouse model, Polycystic kidney disease, Polycystin-1	PKD1 is the most commonly mutated gene causing autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). It encodes Polycystin-1 (PC1), a putative membrane protein that undergoes a set of incompletely characterized post-transcriptional cleavage steps and has been reported to localize in multiple subcellular locations, including the primary cilium and mitochondria. However, direct visualization of PC1 and detailed characterization of its binding partners remain challenging. We now report a new mouse model with HA epitopes and eGFP knocked-in frame into the endogenous mouse Pkd1 gene by CRISPR/Cas9. Using this model, we sought to visualize endogenous PC1-eGFP and performed affinity-purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS) and network analyses. We show that the modified Pkd1 allele is fully functional but the eGFP-tagged protein cannot be detected without signal amplification by secondary antibodies. Using nanobody-coupled beads and large quantities of tissue, AP-MS identified an in vivo PC1 interactome, which is enriched for mitochondrial proteins and components of metabolic pathways. These studies suggest this mouse model and interactome data will be useful to understand PC1 function, but that new methods and brighter tags will be required to track endogenous PC1.
PXD040742	37541199	Proteogenomic analysis of chemo-refractory high-grade serous ovarian cancer. 	Proteogenomic analysis of chemo-refractory high grade serous ovarian cancer	FFPE, HGSOC, MRM	To improve the understanding of chemo-refractory high-grade serous ovarian cancers (HGSOCs), we characterized the proteogenomic landscape of 242 (refractory and sensitive) HGSOCs, representing one discovery and two validation cohorts across two biospecimen types (formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded and frozen). We identified a 64-protein signature that predicts with high specificity a subset of HGSOCs refractory to initial platinum-based therapy and is validated in two independent patient cohorts. We detected significant association between lack of Ch17 loss of heterozygosity (LOH) and chemo-refractoriness. Based on pathway protein expression, we identified 5 clusters of HGSOC, which validated across two independent patient cohorts and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. These clusters may represent different mechanisms of refractoriness and implicate putative therapeutic vulnerabilities.
PXD043054	37541251	Neddylation of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 controls glucose metabolism. 	Neddylation of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 controls glucose metabolism	PCK1, glucose, neddylation	Neddylation is a post-translational mechanism that adds a ubiquitin-like protein, namely neural precursor cell expressed developmentally downregulated protein 8 (NEDD8). Here, we show that neddylation in mouse liver is modulated by nutrient availability. Inhibition of neddylation in mouse liver reduces gluconeogenic capacity and the hyperglycemic actions of counter-regulatory hormones. Furthermore, people with type 2 diabetes display elevated hepatic neddylation levels. Mechanistically, fasting or caloric restriction of mice leads to neddylation of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) at three lysine residues-K278, K342, and K387. We find that mutating the three PCK1 lysines that are neddylated reduces their gluconeogenic activity rate. Molecular dynamics simulations show that neddylation of PCK1 could re-position two loops surrounding the catalytic center into an open configuration, rendering the catalytic center more accessible. Our study reveals that neddylation of PCK1 provides a finely tuned mechanism of controlling glucose metabolism by linking whole nutrient availability to metabolic homeostasis.
PXD028626	37541257	Senescent cells form nuclear foci that contain the 26S proteasome. 	TMTpro 16-plex analysis of siRAD23B and siControl in replicatively and ETP-treated senescent cells	ETP-induced senescence, RAD23B, TMTpro 16-plex, replicative senescence	The proteasome plays a central role in intracellular protein degradation. Age-dependent decline in proteasome activity is associated with cellular senescence and organismal aging; however, the mechanism by which the proteasome plays a role in senescent cells remains elusive. Here, we show that nuclear foci that contain the proteasome and exhibit liquid-like properties are formed in senescent cells. The formation of senescence-associated nuclear proteasome foci (SANPs) is dependent on ubiquitination and RAD23B, similar to previously known nuclear proteasome foci, but also requires proteasome activity. RAD23B knockdown suppresses SANP formation and increases mitochondrial activity, leading to reactive oxygen species production without affecting other senescence traits such as cell-cycle arrest and cell morphology. These findings suggest that SANPs are an important feature of senescent cells and uncover a mechanism by which the proteasome plays a role in senescent cells.
PXD031017	37541627	A comparative proteomics analysis of four contact allergens in THP-1 cells shows distinct alterations in key metabolic pathways. 	Effects of contact allergens on THP-1 cells - LFQ- and SILAC-based untargeted proteomics	LFQ, SILAC, THP-1, contact allergens	Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is the predominant form of immunotoxicity in humans. The sensitizing potential of chemicals can be assessed in vitro. However, a better mechanistic understanding could improve the current OECD-validated test battery. The aim of this study was to get insights into toxicity mechanisms of four contact allergens, p-benzoquinone (BQ), 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB), p-nitrobenzyl bromide (NBB) and NiSO4, by analyzing differential proteome alterations in THP-1 cells using two common proteomics workflows, stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and label-free quantification (LFQ). Here, SILAC was found to deliver more robust results. Overall, the four allergens induced similar responses in THP-1 cells, which underwent profound metabolic reprogramming, including a striking upregulation of the TCA cycle accompanied by pronounced induction of the Nrf2 oxidative stress response pathway. The magnitude of induction varied between the allergens with DNCB and NBB being most potent. A considerable overlap between transcriptome-based signatures of the GARD assay and the proteins identified in our study was found. When comparing the results of this study to a previous proteomics study in human primary monocyte-derived dendritic cells, we found a rather low share in regulated proteins. However, on pathway level, the overlap was high, indicating that affected pathways rather than single proteins are more eligible to investigate proteomic changes induced by contact allergens. Overall, this study confirms the potential of proteomics to obtain a profound mechanistic understanding, which may help improving existing in vitro assays for skin sensitization.
PXD038756	37542054	A multi-omics analysis identifies molecular features associated with fertility in heifers (Bos taurus). 	Identification of proteins in the plasma associated with heifer infertility	Infertility, cow, heifer	Infertility or subfertility is a critical barrier to sustainable cattle production, including in heifers. The development of heifers that do not produce a calf within an optimum window of time is a critical factor for the profitability and sustainability of the cattle industry. In parallel, heifers are an excellent biomedical model for understanding the underlying etiology of infertility because well-nourished heifers can still be infertile, mostly because of inherent physiological and genetic causes. Using a high-density single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chip, we collected genotypic data, which were analyzed using an association analysis in PLINK with Fisher's exact test. We also produced quantitative transcriptome data and proteome data. Transcriptome data were analyzed using the quasi-likelihood test followed by the Wald's test, and the likelihood test and proteome data were analyzed using a generalized mixed model and Student's t-test. We identified two SNPs significantly associated with heifer fertility (rs110918927, chr12: 85648422, P = 6.7 x 10(-7); and rs109366560, chr11:37666527, P = 2.6 x 10(-5)). We identified two genes with differential transcript abundance (eFDR <= 0.002) between the two groups (Fertile and Sub-Fertile): Adipocyte Plasma Membrane Associated Protein (APMAP, 1.16 greater abundance in the Fertile group) and Dynein Axonemal Intermediate Chain 7 (DNAI7, 1.23 greater abundance in the Sub-Fertile group). Our analysis revealed that the protein Alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase FTO was more abundant in the plasma collected from Fertile heifers relative to their Sub-Fertile counterparts (FDR < 0.05). Lastly, an integrative analysis of the three datasets identified a series of molecular features (SNPs, gene transcripts, and proteins) that discriminated 21 out of 22 heifers correctly based on their fertility category. Our multi-omics analyses confirm the complex nature of female fertility. Very importantly, our results also highlight differences in the molecular profile of heifers associated with fertility that transcend the constraints of breed-specific genetic background.
PXD042342	37542058	Proteome changes of fibroblasts and endothelial cells upon incubation with human cytomegalovirus subviral Dense Bodies. 	Fibroblast-derived matrix models desmoplastic properties and forms a prognostic signature in cancer progression	cancer, lc-ms, matrix	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a pathogen of high medical relevance. Subviral Dense Bodies (DB) were developed as a vaccine candidate to ameliorate the severe consequences of HCMV infection. Development of such a candidate vaccine for human application requires detailed knowledge of its interaction with the host. A comprehensive mass spectrometry (MS)- based analysis was performed regarding the changes in the proteome of cell culture cells, exposed to DB.
PXD043016	37542075	Non-invasive electromechanical assessment during atrial fibrillation identifies underlying atrial myopathy alterations with early prognostic value. 	Nature Communications manuscript NCOMMS-22-26923A	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, LCMS raw files, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP)	Electromechanical characterization during atrial fibrillation (AF) remains a significant gap in the understanding of AF-related atrial myopathy. This study reports mechanistic insights into the electromechanical remodeling process associated with AF progression and further demonstrates its prognostic value in the clinic. In pigs, sequential electromechanical assessment during AF progression shows a progressive decrease in mechanical activity and early dissociation from its electrical counterpart. Atrial tissue samples from animals with AF reveal an abnormal increase in cardiomyocytes death and alterations in calcium handling proteins. High-throughput quantitative proteomics and immunoblotting analyses at different stages of AF progression identify downregulation of contractile proteins and progressive increase in atrial fibrosis. Moreover, advanced optical mapping techniques, applied to whole heart preparations during AF, demonstrate that AF-related remodeling decreases the frequency threshold for dissociation between transmembrane voltage signals and intracellular calcium transients compared to healthy controls. Single cell simulations of human atrial cardiomyocytes also confirm the experimental results. In patients, non-invasive assessment of the atrial electromechanical relationship further demonstrate that atrial electromechanical dissociation is an early prognostic indicator for acute and long-term rhythm control.
PXD043494	37543363	Cell type-specific labeling of newly synthesized proteins by puromycin inactivation. 	Puromycin acetyltransferase-mediated cell-specific labeling of de novo synthesized proteins, part I	HEK, Neuro2a, OPP-ID, shotgun proteomics, streptavidin pulldown	Puromycin and its derivative O-propargyl puromycin (OPP) have recently found widespread use in detecting nascent proteins. Use of these metabolic labels in complex mixtures of cells leads to indiscriminate tagging of nascent proteomes independent of cell type. Here, we show how a widely used mammalian selection marker, puromycin N-acetyltransferase, can be repurposed for cell-specific metabolic labeling. This approach, which we named puromycin inactivation for cell-selective proteome labeling (PICSL), is based on efficient inactivation of puromycin or OPP in cells expressing puromycin N-acetyltransferase and detection of translation in other cell types. Using cocultures of neurons and glial cells from the rat brain cortex, we show the application of PICSL for puromycin immunostaining, Western blot, and mass spectrometric identification of nascent proteins. By combining PICSL and OPP-mediated proteomics, cell type-enriched proteins can be identified based on reduced OPP labeling in the cell type of interest.
PXD041404	37543430	TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis revealed that FBLN2 and NPR3 are involved in the early osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). 	TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis revealed that FBLN2 and NPR3 are involved in the early MSCs osteogenic differentiation	Osteogenesis, adipogenesis, differentiation, marrow mesenchymal stem cells	The delicate equilibrium between osteoblast and adipocyte differentiation of MSCs is highly regulated. We screened for early-stage osteogenesis- or adipogenesis-based MSCs protein expression profiles using TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis to identify novel participating molecules. Protein annotation, hierarchical clustering, functional stratification, and protein-protein association assessments were performed. Moreover, two upregulated proteins, namely, FBLN2 and NPR3, were validated to participate in the osteogenic differentiation process of MSCs. After that, we independently downregulated FBLN2 and NPR3 over seven days of osteogenic differentiation, and we performed quantitative proteomics analysis to determine how different proteins were regulated in knockdown vs. control cells. Based on gene ontology (GO) and network analyses, FBLN2 deficiency induced functional alterations associated with biological regulation and stimulus-response, whereas NPR3 deficiency induced functional alterations related to cellular and metabolic processes, and so on. These findings suggested that proteomics remains a useful method for an in-depth study of the MSCs differentiation process. This will assist in comprehensively evaluating its role in osteoporosis and provide additional approaches for identifying as-yet-unidentified effector molecules.
PXD038230	37543597	BtuB TonB-dependent transporters and BtuG surface lipoproteins form stable complexes for vitamin B12 uptake in gut Bacteroides. 	BtuB TonB-dependent transporters and BtuG surface lipoproteins form stable complexes for vitamin B12 uptake in gut Bacteroides.	B12, Bacteroides, Fusion-Lumos, Orbitrap, bacteria, gut	Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is required for most human gut microbes, many of which are dependent on scavenging to obtain this vitamin. Since bacterial densities in the gut are extremely high, competition for this keystone micronutrient is severe. Contrasting with Enterobacteria, members of the dominant genus Bacteroides often encode several BtuB vitamin B12 outer membrane transporters together with a conserved array of surface-exposed B12-binding lipoproteins. Here we show that the BtuB transporters from Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron form stable, pedal bin-like complexes with surface-exposed BtuG lipoprotein lids, which bind B12 with high affinities. Closing of the BtuG lid following B12 capture causes destabilisation of the bound B12 by a conserved BtuB extracellular loop, causing translocation of the vitamin to BtuB and subsequent transport. We propose that TonB-dependent, lipoprotein-assisted small molecule uptake is a general feature of Bacteroides spp. that is important for the success of this genus in colonising the human gut.
PXD033774	37543598	Serum proteomic identification and validation of two novel atherosclerotic aortic aneurysm biomarkers, profilin 1 and complement factor D. 	Identification of novel biomarkers for aortic aneurysm	aortic aneurysm, biomarker	BACKGROUND: Effective diagnostic biomarkers for aortic aneurysm (AA) that are detectable in blood tests are required because early detection and rupture risk assessment of AA can provide insights into medical therapy and preventive treatments. However, known biomarkers for AA lack specificity and reliability for clinical diagnosis. METHODS: We performed proteome analysis of serum samples from patients with atherosclerotic thoracic AA (TAA) and healthy control (HC) subjects to identify diagnostic biomarkers for AA. Serum samples were separated into low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein, and protein fractions, and the major proteins were depleted. From the proteins identified in the three fractions, we narrowed down biomarker candidates to proteins uniformly altered in all fractions between patients with TAA and HC subjects and evaluated their capability to discriminate patients with TAA and those with abdominal AA (AAA) from HC subjects using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. For the clinical validation, serum concentrations of biomarker candidates were measured in patients with TAA and AAA registered in the biobank of the same institute, and their capability for the diagnosis was evaluated. RESULTS: Profilin 1 (PFN1) and complement factor D (CFD) showed the most contrasting profiles in all three fractions between patients with TAA and HC subjects and were selected as biomarker candidates. The PFN1 concentration decreased, whereas the CFD concentration increased in the sera of patients with TAA and AAA when compared with those of HC subjects. The ROC analysis showed that these proteins could discriminate patients with TAA and AAA from HC subjects. In the validation study, these candidates showed significant concentration differences between patients with TAA or AAA and controls. PFN1 and CFD showed sufficient area under the curve (AUC) in the ROC analysis, and their combination further increased the AUC. The serum concentrations of PFN1 and CFD also showed significant differences between patients with aortic dissection and controls in the validation study. CONCLUSION: PFN1 and CFD are potential diagnostic biomarkers for TAA and AAA and measurable in blood samples; their diagnostic performance can be augmented by their combination. These biomarkers may facilitate the development of diagnostic systems to identify patients with AA.
PXD039046	37545086	Quantitative Acetylomics Reveals Substrates of Lysine Acetyltransferase GCN5 in Adult and Aging Drosophila. 	Quantitative acetylomics reveals the role of lysine acetyltransferase GCN5 in Drosophila adult and aging process	Acetylome, Drosophila, GCN5, aging, lysine acetyltransferase	Protein lysine acetylation is a dynamic post-translational modification (PTM) that regulates a wide spectrum of cellular events including aging. General control nonderepressible 5 (GCN5) is a highly conserved lysine acetyltransferase (KAT). However, the acetylation substrates of GCN5 in vivo remain poorly studied, and moreover, how lysine acetylation changes with age and the contribution of KATs to aging remain to be addressed. Here, using Drosophila, we perform label-free quantitative acetylomic analysis, identifying new substrates of GCN5 in the adult and aging process. We further characterize the dynamics of protein acetylation with age, which exhibits a trend of increase. Since the expression of endogenous fly Gcn5 progressively increases during aging, we reason that, by combining the substrate analysis, the increase in acetylation with age is triggered, at least in part, by GCN5. Collectively, our study substantially expands the atlas of GCN5 substrates in vivo, provides a resource of protein acetylation that naturally occurs with age, and demonstrates how individual KAT contributes to the aging acetylome.
PXD027716	37546987	Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is necessary for GBP-mediated T. gondii restriction in murine macrophages via vacuole nitration and intravacuolar network collapse. 	Priming conditions alter the proteome near the PVM	AutoSTOMP, Toxoplasma gondii, mBMDC	Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular, protozoan pathogen of rodents and humans. T. gondii's ability to grow within cells and evade cell-autonomous immunity depends on the integrity of the parasitophorous vacuole (PV). Interferon-inducible guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are central mediators of T. gondii clearance, however, the precise mechanism linking GBP recruitment to the PV and T. gondii restriction is not clear. This knowledge gap is linked to heterogenous GBP-targeting across a population of vacuoles and the lack of tools to selectively purify the intact PV. To identify mediators of parasite clearance associated with GBP2-positive vacuoles, we employed a novel protein discovery tool automated spatially targeted optical micro proteomics (autoSTOMP). This approach identified inducible nitric oxide synthetase (iNOS) enriched at levels similar to the GBPs in infected bone marrow-derived myeloid cells. iNOS expression on myeloid cells was necessary for mice to control T. gondii growth in vivo and survive acute infection. T. gondii infection of IFNgamma-primed macrophage was sufficient to robustly induce iNOS expression. iNOS restricted T. gondii infection through nitric oxide synthesis rather than arginine depletion, leading to robust and selective nitration of the PV. Optimal parasite restriction by iNOS and vacuole nitration depended on the chromosome 3 GBPs. Notably, GBP2 recruitment and ruffling of the PV membrane occurred in iNOS knockouts, however, these vacuoles contained dividing parasites. iNOS activity was necessary for the collapse of the intravacuolar network of nanotubular membranes which connects parasites to each other and the host cytosol. Based on these data we conclude reactive nitrogen species generated by iNOS cooperate with the chromosome 3 GBPs to target distinct biology of the PV that are necessary for optimal parasite clearance in murine myeloid cells.
PXD037617	37548402	Cell-type specific regulator RBPMS switches alternative splicing via higher-order oligomerization and heterotypic interactions with other splicing regulators. 	RBPMS  mediates smooth muscle specific alternative splicing via oligomerization and modulation of trans factor recruitment	LC MS/MS, RNA, alternative splicing factor	Alternative pre-mRNA splicing decisions are regulated by RNA binding proteins (RBPs) that can activate or repress regulated splice sites. Repressive RBPs typically harness multivalent interactions to bind stably to target RNAs. Multivalency can be achieved by homomeric oligomerization and heteromeric interactions with other RBPs, often mediated by intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs), and by possessing multiple RNA binding domains. Cell-specific splicing decisions often involve the action of widely expressed RBPs, which are able to bind multivalently around target exons, but without effect in the absence of a cell-specific regulator. To address how cell-specific regulators can collaborate with constitutive RBPs in alternative splicing regulation, we used the smooth-muscle specific regulator RBPMS. Recombinant RBPMS is sufficient to confer smooth muscle cell specific alternative splicing of Tpm1 exon 3 in cell-free assays by preventing assembly of ATP-dependent splicing complexes. This activity depends upon a C-terminal IDR that facilitates dynamic higher-order self-assembly, cooperative binding to multivalent RNA and interactions with widely expressed splicing co-regulators, including MBNL1 and RBFOX2, allowing cooperative assembly of stable cell-specific regulatory complexes.
PXD036806	37549031	Comparative Proteome-wide Characterization of Three Different Tissues of High-Protein Mutant and Wild Type Unravels Protein Accumulation Mechanisms in Rice Seeds. 	Application of proteomic characterization reveals protein accumulation mechanisms in embryo, endosperm, and bran of weedy rice varieties	EMS mutant, High-protein content, Intracellular transport, Label-free analysis, Weedy rice	Improving the proteins and amino acid contents of rice seeds is one of the prime objectives of plant breeders. We recently developed an EMS mutant/high-protein mutant (HPM) of rice that exhibits 14.8% of the total protein content as compared to its parent Dharial (wild-type), which shows only 9.3% protein content in their mature seeds. However, the mechanisms underlying the higher protein accumulation in these HPM seeds remain largely elusive. Here, we utilized high-throughput proteomics to examine the differences in the proteome profiles of the embryo, endosperm, and bran tissues of Dharial and HPM seeds. Utilizing a label-free quantitative proteomic and subsequent functional analyses of the identified proteins revealed that nitrogen compound biosynthesis, intracellular transport, protein/amino acid synthesis, and photosynthesis-related proteins were specifically enriched in the endosperm and bran of the high-protein mutant seed. Our data have uncovered proteome-wide changes highlighting various functions of metabolic pathways associated with protein accumulation in rice seeds.
PXD043185	37549151	TGF-beta1 Triggers Salivary Hypofunction via Attenuating Protein Secretion and AQP5 Expression in Human Submandibular Gland Cells. 	Human Submandibular Gland cells,secretory proteins,LC-MS/MS	HSG cells, secretory proteins	Aging-related salivary gland degeneration usually causes poor oral health. Periductal fibrosis frequently occurs in the submandibular gland of the elderly. Transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) is the primary driving factor for fibrosis, which exhibits an increase in the fibrotic submandibular gland tissue. This study aimed to investigate the effects of TGF-beta1 on the human submandibular gland (HSG) cell secretory function and its influences on aquaporin 5 (AQP5) expressions and distribution. We found that TGF-beta1 reduces the protein secretion amount of HSG and leads to the abundance alteration of 151 secretory proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD043185. The majority of HSG secretory proteins (84.11%) could be matched to the human saliva proteome. Meanwhile, TGF-beta1 enhances the expression of COL4A2, COL5A1, COL7A1, COL1A1, COL2A1, and alpha-SMA, hinting that TGF-beta1 possesses the potential to drive HSG fibrosis-related events. Besides, TGF-beta1 also attenuates the AQP5 expression and its membrane distribution in HSGs. The percentage for TGF-beta1-induced AQP5 reduction (52.28%) is much greater than that of the TGF-beta1-induced secretory protein concentration reduction (16.53%). Taken together, we concluded that TGF-beta1 triggers salivary hypofunction via attenuating protein secretion and AQP5 expression in HSGs, which may be associated with TGF-beta1-driven fibrosis events in HSGs.
PXD043936	37549603	Autophagy modulates the stability of Wee1 and cell cycle G2/M transition. 	Liver samples from WT and Atg7 liver specific KO mice	Atg7, Mouse liver, autophagy	The mammalian cell cycle is divided into four sequential phases, namely G1 (Gap 1), S (synthesis), G2 (Gap 2), and M (mitosis). Wee1, whose turnover is tightly and finely regulated, is a well-known kinase serving as a gatekeeper for the G2/M transition. However, the mechanism underlying the turnover of Wee1 is not fully understood. Autophagy, a highly conserved cellular process, maintains cellular homeostasis by eliminating intracellular aggregations, damaged organelles, and individual proteins. In the present study, we found autophagy deficiency in mouse liver caused G2/M arrest in two mouse models, namely Fip200 and Atg7 liver-specific knockout mice. To uncover the link between autophagy deficiency and G2/M transition, we combined transcriptomic and proteomic analysis for liver samples from control and Atg7 liver-specific knockout mice. The data suggest that the inhibition of autophagy increases the protein level of Wee1 without any alteration of its mRNA abundance. Serum starvation, an autophagy stimulus, downregulates the protein level of Wee1 in vitro. In addition, the half-life of Wee1 is extended by the addition of chloroquine, an autophagy inhibitor. LC3, a central autophagic protein functioning in autophagy substrate selection and autophagosome biogenesis, interacts with Wee1 as assessed by co-immunoprecipitation assay. Furthermore, overexpression of Wee1 leads to G2/M arrest both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our data indicate that autophagy could degrade Wee1-a gatekeeper of the G2/M transition, whereas the inhibition of autophagy leads to the accumulation of Wee1 and causes G2/M arrest in mouse liver.
PXD041316	37550801	ST6GAL1-mediated aberrant sialylation promotes prostate cancer progression. 	Modulation of ST6Gal1 in Prostate Cancer Cells	ST6Gal1, cancer, cell line, glycosylation	Aberrant glycosylation is a universal feature of cancer cells, and cancer-associated glycans have been detected in virtually every cancer type. A common change in tumour cell glycosylation is an increase in alpha2,6 sialylation of N-glycans, a modification driven by the sialyltransferase ST6GAL1. ST6GAL1 is overexpressed in numerous cancer types, and sialylated glycans are fundamental for tumour growth, metastasis, immune evasion, and drug resistance, but the role of ST6GAL1 in prostate cancer is poorly understood. Here, we analyse matched cancer and normal tissue samples from 200 patients and verify that ST6GAL1 is upregulated in prostate cancer tissue. Using MALDI imaging mass spectrometry (MALDI-IMS), we identify larger branched alpha2,6 sialylated N-glycans that show specificity to prostate tumour tissue. We also monitored ST6GAL1 in plasma samples from >400 patients and reveal ST6GAL1 levels are significantly increased in the blood of men with prostate cancer. Using both in vitro and in vivo studies, we demonstrate that ST6GAL1 promotes prostate tumour growth and invasion. Our findings show ST6GAL1 introduces alpha2,6 sialylated N-glycans on prostate cancer cells and raise the possibility that prostate cancer cells can secrete active ST6GAL1 enzyme capable of remodelling glycans on the surface of other cells. Furthermore, we find alpha2,6 sialylated N-glycans expressed by prostate cancer cells can be targeted using the sialyltransferase inhibitor P-3FAX -Neu5Ac. Our study identifies an important role for ST6GAL1 and alpha2,6 sialylated N-glycans in prostate cancer progression and highlights the opportunity to inhibit abnormal sialylation for the development of new prostate cancer therapeutics. (c) 2023 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD027751	37551060	Cerebrospinal fluid proteins in idiopathic intracranial hypertension: An exploratory SWATH proteomics analysis. 	Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension: an exploratory SWATH proteomics analysis	Biomarkers, Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension (IIH)	PURPOSE: The pathogenesis of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) is currently poorly understood. This exploratory study aimed to identify potential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in IIH cases compared to controls using SWATH-MS proteomics approach. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: CSF samples were collected prospectively from IIH cases and control subjects which were subjected to SWATH-MS based untargeted proteomics. Proteins with fold change > 1.5 or < 0.67 and p-value < 0.05 were considered significantly differentially expressed. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD027751. Statistical analysis was conducted in R version 3.6.2. RESULTS: We included CSF samples from 33 subjects, consisting of 13 IIH cases and 20 controls. A total of 262 proteins were identified in Proteinpilot search. Through SWATH analysis, we quantified 232 proteins. We observed 37 differentially expressed proteins between the two groups with 24 upregulated and 13 downregulated proteins. There were two differential proteins among overweight versus non-overweight IIH cases. Network for 23 proteins was highly connected in the interaction analysis. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Neurosecretory, neuroendocrine, and inflammatory proteins were predominantly involved in causing IIH. This exploratory study served as a platform to identify 37 differentially expressed proteins in IIH and also showed significant differences between overweight and non-overweight IIH patients.
PXD041350	37552208	Count Dracula Resurrected: Proteomic Analysis of Vlad III the Impaler's Documents by EVA Technology and Mass Spectrometry. 	Count Dracula Resurrected: Proteomic Analysis of Vlad III the Impaler's Documents by EVA Technology and Mass Spectrometry	Ancient Proteins, Dracula, EVA diskettes, Vlad the Impaler	The interest of scientists in analyzing items of World Cultural Heritage has been exponentially increasing since the beginning of the new millennium. These studies have grown considerably in tandem with the development and use of sophisticated and sensitive technologies such as high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS) and the non-invasive and non-damaging technique, known under the acronym EVA (ethylene-vinyl acetate). Here, we report the results of the MS characterization of the peptides and proteins harvested by the EVA technology applied to three letters written in 1457 and 1475 by the voivode of Wallachia, Vlad III, also known as Vlad the Impaler, or Vlad Dracula. The discrimination of the "original" endogenous peptides from contaminant ones was obtained by monitoring their different levels of deamidation and of other diagenetic chemical modifications. The characterization of the ancient proteins extracted from these documents allowed us to explore the environmental conditions, in the second half of the 15th century, of the Wallachia, a region considered as a meeting point for soldiers, migrants, and travelers that probably carried not only trade goods and cultural traditions but also diseases and epidemics. In addition, the identification of many human peptides and proteins harvested from the letters allowed us to uncover more about Vlad Dracula the Impaler. Particularly, the experimental data show that he probably suffered from inflammatory processes of the respiratory tract and/or of the skin. In addition, proteomics data, although not exhaustive, suggest that, according to some stories, he might also have suffered from a pathological condition called hemolacria, that is, he could shed tears admixed with blood. It is worth noting that more medieval people may have touched these documents, which cannot be denied, but it is also presumable that the most prominent ancient proteins should be related to Prince Vlad the Impaler, who wrote and signed these letters. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with the identifier <PXD041350>.
PXD040864	37552582	Integrated Analysis of Cross-Links and Dead-End Peptides for Enhanced Interpretation of Quantitative XL-MS. 	Mitochondrial interactome quantitation with dead-end peptides in failing murine heart	Mus musculus	Chemical cross-linking with mass spectrometry provides low-resolution structural information on proteins in cells and tissues. Combined with quantitation, it can identify changes in the interactome between samples, for example, control and drug-treated cells or young and old mice. A difference can originate from protein conformational changes that alter the solvent-accessible distance separating the cross-linked residues. Alternatively, a difference can result from conformational changes localized to the cross-linked residues, for example, altering the solvent exposure or reactivity of those residues or post-translational modifications of the cross-linked peptides. In this manner, cross-linking is sensitive to a variety of protein conformational features. Dead-end peptides are cross-links attached only at one end to a protein with the other terminus being hydrolyzed. As a result, changes in their abundance reflect only conformational changes localized to the attached residue. For this reason, analyzing both quantified cross-links and their corresponding dead-end peptides can help elucidate the likely conformational changes giving rise to observed differences in cross-link abundance. We describe analysis of dead-end peptides in the XLinkDB public cross-link database and, with quantified mitochondrial data isolated from failing heart versus healthy mice, show how a comparison of abundance ratios between cross-links and their corresponding dead-end peptides can be leveraged to reveal possible conformational explanations.
PXD039933	37552764	Suspension Trapping-Based Sample Preparation Workflow for In-Depth Plant Phosphoproteomics. 	A Suspension Trapping-based Sample Preparation Workflow for Sensitive Plant Phosphoproteomics	Plant phosphoproteomics, suspension trapping	Plant phosphoproteomics provides a global view of phosphorylation-mediated signaling in plants; however, it demands high-throughput methods with sensitive detection and accurate quantification. Despite the widespread use of protein precipitation for removing contaminants and improving sample purity, it limits the sensitivity and throughput of plant phosphoproteomic analysis. The multiple handling steps involved in protein precipitation lead to sample loss and process variability. Herein, we developed an approach based on suspension trapping (S-Trap), termed tandem S-Trap-IMAC (immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography), by integrating an S-Trap micro-column with a Fe-IMAC tip. Compared with a precipitation-based workflow, the tandem S-Trap-IMAC method deepened the coverage of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) phosphoproteome by more than 30%, with improved number of multiply phosphorylated peptides, quantification accuracy, and short sample processing time. We applied the tandem S-Trap-IMAC method for studying abscisic acid (ABA) signaling in Arabidopsis seedlings. We thus discovered that a significant proportion of the phosphopeptides induced by ABA are multiply phosphorylated peptides, indicating their importance in early ABA signaling and quantified several key phosphorylation sites on core ABA signaling components across four time points. Our results show that the optimized workflow aids high-throughput phosphoproteome profiling of low-input plant samples.
PXD043745	37553571	Identification of a novel bile marker clusterin and a public online prediction platform based on deep learning for cholangiocarcinoma. 	Identification of a novel bile marker Clusterin and a public online prediction platform based on deep learning for Cholangiocarcinoma	Cholangiocarcinoma, Clusterin, deep learning, diagnostic biomarker	BACKGROUND: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly aggressive malignant tumor, and its diagnosis is still a challenge. This study aimed to identify a novel bile marker for CCA diagnosis based on proteomics and establish a diagnostic model with deep learning. METHODS: A total of 644 subjects (236 CCA and 408 non-CCA) from two independent centers were divided into discovery, cross-validation, and external validation sets for the study. Candidate bile markers were identified by three proteomics data and validated on 635 clinical humoral specimens and 121 tissue specimens. A diagnostic multi-analyte model containing bile and serum biomarkers was established in cross-validation set by deep learning and validated in an independent external cohort. RESULTS: The results of proteomics analysis and clinical specimen verification showed that bile clusterin (CLU) was significantly higher in CCA body fluids. Based on 376 subjects in the cross-validation set, ROC analysis indicated that bile CLU had a satisfactory diagnostic power (AUC: 0.852, sensitivity: 73.6%, specificity: 90.1%). Building on bile CLU and 63 serum markers, deep learning established a diagnostic model incorporating seven factors (CLU, CA19-9, IBIL, GGT, LDL-C, TG, and TBA), which showed a high diagnostic utility (AUC: 0.947, sensitivity: 90.3%, specificity: 84.9%). External validation in an independent cohort (n = 259) resulted in a similar accuracy for the detection of CCA. Finally, for the convenience of operation, a user-friendly prediction platform was built online for CCA. CONCLUSIONS: This is the largest and most comprehensive study combining bile and serum biomarkers to differentiate CCA. This diagnostic model may potentially be used to detect CCA.
PXD041948	37555435	Eukaryote-specific assembly factor DEAP2 mediates an early step of photosystem II assembly in Arabidopsis. 	The assembly of the photosystem II intermediate RC47 in plants involves the cooperation of the eukaryotic factor DEAP2 with PAM68The assembly of the photosystem II intermediate RC47 in plants involves the cooperation of the eukaryotic factor DEAP2 with PA	photosynthesis, photosystem II assembly	The initial step of oxygenic photosynthesis is the thermodynamically challenging extraction of electrons from water and the release of molecular oxygen. This light-driven process, which is the basis for most life on Earth, is catalyzed by photosystem II (PSII) within the thylakoid membrane of photosynthetic organisms. The biogenesis of PSII requires a controlled step-wise assembly process of which the early steps are considered to be highly conserved between plants and their cyanobacterial progenitors. This assembly process involves auxiliary proteins, which are likewise conserved. In the present work, we used Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) as a model to show that in plants, a eukaryote-exclusive assembly factor facilitates the early assembly step, during which the intrinsic antenna protein CP47 becomes associated with the PSII reaction center (RC) to form the RC47 intermediate. This factor, which we named DECREASED ELECTRON TRANSPORT AT PSII (DEAP2), works in concert with the conserved PHOTOSYNTHESIS AFFECTED MUTANT 68 (PAM68) assembly factor. The deap2 and pam68 mutants showed similar defects in PSII accumulation and assembly of the RC47 intermediate. The combined lack of both proteins resulted in a loss of functional PSII and the inability of plants to grow photoautotrophically on the soil. While overexpression of DEAP2 partially rescued the pam68 PSII accumulation phenotype, this effect was not reciprocal. DEAP2 accumulated at 20-fold higher levels than PAM68, together suggesting that both proteins have distinct functions. In summary, our results uncover eukaryotic adjustments to the PSII assembly process, which involve the addition of DEAP2 for the rapid progression from RC to RC47.
PXD042522	37556328	Subcellular localization shapes the fate of RNA polymerase III. 	Subcellular Localization Shapes the Fate of RNA Polymerase III-2	Pol III, cytoplasm, nuclear	RNA polymerase III (Pol III) plays a vital role in transcription and as a viral-DNA sensor, but how it is assembled and distributed within cells remains poorly understood. Here, we show that Pol III is assembled with chaperones in the cytoplasm and forms transcription-dependent protein clusters upon transport into the nucleus. The largest subunit (RPC1) depletion through an auxin-inducible degron leads to rapid degradation and disassembly of Pol III complex in the nucleus and cytoplasm, respectively. This generates a pool of partially assembled Pol III intermediates, which can be rapidly mobilized into the nucleus upon the restoration of RPC1. Our study highlights the critical role of subcellular localization in determining Pol III's fate and provides insight into the dynamic regulation of nuclear Pol III levels and the origin of cytoplasmic Pol III complexes involved in mediating viral immunity.
PXD039094	37558876	TRIM5alpha restricts poxviruses and is antagonized by CypA and the viral protein C6. 	Orthopoxvirus evasion from TRIM5alpha-mediated restriction	TRIM5	Human tripartite motif protein 5alpha (TRIM5alpha) is a well-characterized restriction factor for some RNA viruses, including HIV(1-5); however, reports are limited for DNA viruses(6,7). Here we demonstrate that TRIM5alpha also restricts orthopoxviruses and, via its SPRY domain, binds to the orthopoxvirus capsid protein L3 to diminish virus replication and activate innate immunity. In response, several orthopoxviruses, including vaccinia, rabbitpox, cowpox, monkeypox, camelpox and variola viruses, deploy countermeasures. First, the protein C6 binds to TRIM5 via the RING domain to induce its proteasome-dependent degradation. Second, cyclophilin A (CypA) is recruited via interaction with the capsid protein L3 to virus factories and virions to antagonize TRIM5alpha; this interaction is prevented by cyclosporine A (CsA) and the non-immunosuppressive derivatives alisporivir and NIM811. Both the proviral effect of CypA and the antiviral effect of CsA are dependent on TRIM5alpha. CsA, alisporivir and NIM811 have antiviral activity against orthopoxviruses, and because these drugs target a cellular protein, CypA, the emergence of viral drug resistance is difficult. These results warrant testing of CsA derivatives against orthopoxviruses, including monkeypox and variola.
PXD035770	37559126	Fibronectin fragments generated by pancreatic trypsin act as endogenous inhibitors of pancreatic tumor growth. 	Generation of fibronectin fragments by pancreatic trypsin: a physiological mechanism hampering PDAC progression.	FAK, FGFR, Fibronectin, PDAC, Trypsin	BACKGROUND: The pancreatic microenvironment has a defensive role against cancer but it can acquire tumor-promoting properties triggered by multiple mechanisms including alterations in the equilibrium between proteases and their inhibitors. The identification of proteolytic events, targets and pathways would set the basis for the design of new therapeutic approaches. METHODS AND RESULTS: Here we demonstrate that spheroids isolated from human and murine healthy pancreas and co-transplanted orthotopically with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) in mouse pancreas inhibited tumor growth. The effect was mediated by trypsin-generated fibronectin (FN) fragments released by pancreatic spheroids. Tumor inhibition was observed also in a model of acute pancreatitis associated with trypsin activation. Mass spectrometry proteomic analysis of fragments and mAb against different FN epitopes identified the FN type III domain as responsible for the activity. By inhibiting integrin alpha5beta1, FAK and FGFR1 signaling, the fragments induced tumor cell detachment and reduced cell proliferation. Consistent with the mutual relationship between the two pathways, FGF2 restored both FGFR1 and FAK signaling and promoted PDAC cell adhesion and proliferation. FAK and FGFR inhibitors additively inhibited PDAC growth in vitro and in orthotopic in vivo models. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies a novel role for pancreatic trypsin and fibronectin cleavage as a mechanism of protection against cancer by the pancreatic microenvironment. The finding of a FAK-FGFR cross-talk in PDAC support the combination of FAK and FGFR inhibitors for PDAC treatment to emulate the protective effect of the normal pancreas against cancer.
PXD041329	37560809	Fasting-sensitive SUMO-switch on Prox1 controls hepatic cholesterol metabolism. 	Fasting-sensitive SUMO-switch on Prox1 controls hepatic cholesterol metabolism	Bile acids, Cholesterol, Liver, Prox1, SUMOylation	Accumulation of excess nutrients hampers proper liver function and is linked to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in obesity. However, the signals responsible for an impaired adaptation of hepatocytes to obesogenic dietary cues remain still largely unknown. Post-translational modification by the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) allows for a dynamic regulation of numerous processes including transcriptional reprogramming. We demonstrate that specific SUMOylation of transcription factor Prox1 represents a nutrient-sensitive determinant of hepatic fasting metabolism. Prox1 is highly SUMOylated on lysine 556 in the liver of ad libitum and refed mice, while this modification is abolished upon fasting. In the context of diet-induced obesity, Prox1 SUMOylation becomes less sensitive to fasting cues. The hepatocyte-selective knock-in of a SUMOylation-deficient Prox1 mutant into mice fed a high-fat/high-fructose diet leads to a reduction of systemic cholesterol levels, associated with the induction of liver bile acid detoxifying pathways during fasting. The generation of tools to maintain the nutrient-sensitive SUMO-switch on Prox1 may thus contribute to the development of "fasting-based" approaches for the preservation of metabolic health.
PXD033944	37561584	Specific quinone reductase 2 inhibitors reduce metabolic burden and reverse Alzheimer's disease phenotype in mice. 	Quinone reductase 2-dependent HCT116 proteome	HCT116, NQ02, QR2	Biological aging can be described as accumulative, prolonged metabolic stress and is the major risk factor for cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, we identified and described a quinone reductase 2 (QR2) pathway in the brain, in which QR2 acts as a removable memory constraint and metabolic buffer within neurons. QR2 becomes overexpressed with age, and it is possibly a novel contributing factor to age-related metabolic stress and cognitive deficit. We found that, in human cells, genetic removal of QR2 produced a shift in the proteome opposing that found in AD brains while simultaneously reducing oxidative stress. We therefore created highly specific QR2 inhibitors (QR2is) to enable evaluation of chronic QR2 inhibition as a means to reduce biological age-related metabolic stress and cognitive decline. QR2is replicated results obtained by genetic removal of QR2, while local QR2i microinjection improved hippocampal and cortical-dependent learning in rats and mice. Continuous consumption of QR2is in drinking water improved cognition and reduced pathology in the brains of AD-model mice (5xFAD), with a noticeable between-sex effect on treatment duration. These results demonstrate the importance of QR2 activity and pathway function in the healthy and neurodegenerative brain and what we believe to be the great therapeutic potential of QR2is as first-in-class drugs.
PXD044082	37561786	ADAM17 targeting by human cytomegalovirus remodels the cell surface proteome to simultaneously regulate multiple immune pathways. 	ADAM17 targeting by human cytomegalovirus remodels the cell surface proteome to simultaneously regulate multiple immune pathways	ADAM17, Human cytomegalovirus, Natural killer cell, TNFR2, UL148, immune	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a major human pathogen whose life-long persistence is enabled by its remarkable capacity to systematically subvert host immune defenses. In exploring the finding that HCMV infection up-regulates tumor necrosis factor receptor 2 (TNFR2), a ligand for the pro-inflammatory antiviral cytokine TNFalpha, we found that the underlying mechanism was due to targeting of the protease, A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase 17 (ADAM17). ADAM17 is the prototype 'sheddase', a family of proteases that cleaves other membrane-bound proteins to release biologically active ectodomains into the supernatant. HCMV impaired ADAM17 surface expression through the action of two virally-encoded proteins in its UL/b' region, UL148 and UL148D. Proteomic plasma membrane profiling of cells infected with an HCMV double-deletion mutant for UL148 and UL148D with restored ADAM17 expression, combined with ADAM17 functional blockade, showed that HCMV stabilized the surface expression of 114 proteins (P < 0.05) in an ADAM17-dependent fashion. These included reported substrates of ADAM17 with established immunological functions such as TNFR2 and jagged1, but also numerous unreported host and viral targets, such as nectin1, UL8, and UL144. Regulation of TNFalpha-induced cytokine responses and NK inhibition during HCMV infection were dependent on this impairment of ADAM17. We therefore identify a viral immunoregulatory mechanism in which targeting a single sheddase enables broad regulation of multiple critical surface receptors, revealing a paradigm for viral-encoded immunomodulation.
PXD043119	37563797	Mass-produced gram-negative bacterial outer membrane vesicles activate cancer antigen-specific stem-like CD8(+) T cells which enables an effective combination immunotherapy with anti-PD-1. 	Proteome of mass-produced Escherichia coli outer membrane vesicles	Escherichia coli, mass production, outer membrane vesicles	Despite the capability of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria to induce potent anti-tumour responses, large-scale production of bacterial EVs remains as a hurdle for their development as novel cancer immunotherapeutic agents. Here, we developed manufacturing processes for mass production of Escherichia coli EVs, namely, outer membrane vesicles (OMVs). By combining metal precipitation and size-exclusion chromatography, we isolated 357 mg in total protein amount of E. coli OMVs, which was equivalent to 3.93 x 10(15) particles (1.10 x 10(10) particles/mug in total protein amounts of OMVs) from 160 L of the conditioned medium. We show that these mass-produced E. coli OMVs led to complete remission of two mouse syngeneic tumour models. Further analysis of tumour microenvironment in neoantigen-expressing tumour models revealed that E. coli OMV treatment causes increased infiltration and activation of CD8(+) T cells, especially those of cancer antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells with high expression of TCF-1 and PD-1. Furthermore, E. coli OMVs showed synergistic anti-tumour activity with anti-PD-1 antibody immunotherapy, inducing substantial tumour growth inhibition and infiltration of activated cancer antigen-specific stem-like CD8(+) T cells into the tumour microenvironment. These data highlight the potent anti-tumour activities of mass-produced E. coli OMVs as a novel candidate for developing next-generation cancer immunotherapeutic agents.
PXD040448	37565816	The role of the FSGS disease gene product and nuclear pore protein NUP205 in regulating nuclear localization and activity of transcriptional regulators YAP and TAZ. 	Characterization of the interactomes of YAP and TAZ in podocytes identifies a relation between YAP and TAZ and proteins of the nuclear shuttling machinery	FSGS, TAZ, WWTR1, YAP, Yes-associated protein 1, hippo signaling, podocyte	Mutations in genes encoding nuclear pore proteins (NUPs) lead to the development of steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). However, the precise molecular mechanisms by which NUP dysfunction contributes to podocyte injury preceding FSGS remain unclear. The tightly regulated activity of Yes-associated protein (YAP) and WW-domain-containing transcription regulator 1 (TAZ), the transcriptional effectors of the Hippo pathway, is crucial for podocytes and the maintenance of the glomerular filter. In this study, we investigate the impact of NUPs on the regulation of YAP/TAZ nuclear import and activity in podocytes. In unbiased interactome studies using quantitative label-free mass spectrometry, we identify the FSGS disease gene products NUP107, NUP133, NUP205, and Exportin-5 (XPO5) as components of YAP and TAZ protein complexes in podocytes. Moreover, we demonstrate that NUP205 is essential for YAP/TAZ nuclear import. Consistently, both the nuclear interaction of YAP/TAZ with TEA domain transcription factor 1 and their transcriptional activity were dependent on NUP205 expression. Additionally, we elucidate a regulatory feedback mechanism whereby YAP activity is modulated in response to TAZ-mediated NUP205 expression. In conclusion, this study establishes a connection between the FSGS disease protein NUP205 and the activity of the transcriptional regulators and Hippo effectors YAP and TAZ and it proposes a potential pathological role of YAP/TAZ dysregulation in podocytes of patients with pathogenic NUP205 variants.
PXD041124	37565982	Easy, Robust, and Repeatable Online Acid Cleavage of Proteins in Mobile Phase for Fast Quantitative LC-MS Bottom-Up Protein Analysis-Application for Ricin Detection. 	Easy, robust, and reproducible online acid cleavage of proteins in mobile phase for fast quantitative LC-MS bottom-up proteomics - application for ricin detection	LC-MS, acid hydrolysis, artifacts, aspartic acid, bottom-up proteomics, online protein cleavage, ricin	Sample preparation involving the cleavage of proteins into peptides is the first critical step for successful bottom-up proteomics and protein analyses. Time- and labor-intensiveness are among the bottlenecks of the commonly used methods for protein sample preparation. Here, we report a fast online method for postinjection acid cleavage of proteins directly in the mobile phase typically used for LC-MS analyses in proteomics. The chemical cleavage is achieved in 0.1% formic acid within 35 s in a capillary heated to 195 degreesC installed upstream of the analytical column, enabling the generated peptides to be separated. The peptides generated by the optimized method covered the entire sequence except for one amino acid of trastuzumab used for the method development. The qualitative results are extraordinarily stable, even over a long period of time. Moreover, the method is also suitable for accurate and repeatable quantification. The procedure requires only one manual step, significantly decreasing sample transfer losses. To demonstrate its practical utility, we tested the method for the fast detection of ricin. Ricin can be unambiguously identified from an injection of 10 ng, and the results can be obtained within 7-8 min after receiving a suspicious sample. Because no sophisticated accessories and no additional reagents are needed, the method can be seamlessly transferred to any laboratory for high-throughput proteomic workflows.
PXD043511	37566084	Primary and hTERT-Transduced Mesothelioma-Associated Fibroblasts but Not Primary or hTERT-Transduced Mesothelial Cells Stimulate Growth of Human Mesothelioma Cells. 	Primary and hTERT-transduced mesothelioma-associated fibroblasts but not primary or hTERT-transduced mesothelial cells stimulate growth of human mesothelioma cells_Secreted proteins	Pleural mesothelioma, conditioned medium, hTERT, human telomerase reverse transcriptase, mesothelioma-associated fibroblasts, pleural mesothelial cells, tumor microenvironment	Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is an aggressive malignancy that develops in a unique tumor microenvironment (TME). However, cell models for studying the TME in PM are still limited. Here, we have generated and characterized novel human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT)-transduced mesothelial cell and mesothelioma-associated fibroblast (Meso-CAF) models and investigated their impact on PM cell growth. Pleural mesothelial cells and Meso-CAFs were isolated from tissue of pneumothorax and PM patients, respectively. Stable expression of hTERT was induced by retroviral transduction. Primary and hTERT-transduced cells were compared with respect to doubling times, hTERT expression and activity levels, telomere lengths, proteomes, and the impact of conditioned media (CM) on PM cell growth. All transduced derivatives exhibited elevated hTERT expression and activity, and increased mean telomere lengths. Cell morphology remained unchanged, and the proteomes were similar to the corresponding primary cells. Of note, the CM of primary and hTERT-transduced Meso-CAFs stimulated PM cell growth to the same extent, while CM derived from mesothelial cells had no stimulating effect, irrespective of hTERT expression. In conclusion, all new hTERT-transduced cell models closely resemble their primary counterparts and, hence, represent valuable tools to investigate cellular interactions within the TME of PM.
PXD036235	37566399	ANXA1 Promotes Tumor Immune Evasion by Binding PARP1 and Upregulating Stat3-Induced Expression of PD-L1 in Multiple Cancers. 	ANXA1 promotes tumor immune evasion by binding PARP1 and upregulating the transcription of PD-L1 in the multiple cancers	ANXA1, PARP1, PD-L1, cancer, cancerimmune evasion	The deregulation of Annexin A1 (ANXA1), a regulator of inflammation and immunity, leads to cancer growth and metastasis. However, whether ANXA1 is involved in cancer immunosuppression is still unclear. Here, we report that ANXA1 knockdown (i) dramatically downregulates programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in breast cancer, lung cancer, and melanoma cells; (ii) promotes T cell-mediated killing of cancer cells in vitro; and (iii) inhibits cancer immune escape in immune-competent mice via downregulating PD-L1 expression and increasing the number and killing activity of CD8+ T cells. Mechanistically, ANXA1 functioned as a sponge molecule for interaction of PARP1 and Stat3. Specifically, binding of ANXA1 to PARP1 decreased PARP1's binding to Stat3, which reduced poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation and dephosphorylation of Stat3 and thus, increased Stat3's transcriptional activity, leading to transcriptionally upregulated expression of PD-L1 in multiple cancer cells. In clinical samples, expression of ANXA1 and PD-L1 was significantly higher in breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and skin cutaneous melanoma compared with corresponding normal tissues and positively correlated in cancer tissues. Moreover, using both ANXA1 and PD-L1 proteins for predicting efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy and patient prognosis was superior to using individual proteins. Our data suggest that ANXA1 promotes cancer immune escape via binding PARP1 and upregulating Stat3-induced expression of PD-L1, that ANXA1 is a potential new target for cancer immunotherapy, and combination of ANXA1 and PD-L1 expression is a potential marker for predicting efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in multiple cancers.
PXD043239	37567175	PLEKHS1 drives PI3Ks and remodels pathway homeostasis in PTEN-null prostate. 	PLEKHS1 drives PI3Ks and remodels pathway homeostasis in PTEN-null prostate	IRS1, PI3K, PLEKHS1, PTEN, prostate	The PIP3/PI3K network is a central regulator of metabolism and is frequently activated in cancer, commonly by loss of the PIP3/PI(3,4)P2 phosphatase, PTEN. Despite huge research investment, the drivers of the PI3K network in normal tissues and how they adapt to overactivation are unclear. We find that in healthy mouse prostate PI3K activity is driven by RTK/IRS signaling and constrained by pathway feedback. In the absence of PTEN, the network is dramatically remodeled. A poorly understood YXXM- and PIP3/PI(3,4)P2-binding PH domain-containing adaptor, PLEKHS1, became the dominant activator and was required to sustain PIP3, AKT phosphorylation, and growth in PTEN-null prostate. This was because PLEKHS1 evaded pathway-feedback and experienced enhanced PI3K- and Src-family kinase-dependent phosphorylation of Y(258)XXM, eliciting PI3K activation. hPLEKHS1 mRNA and activating Y(419) phosphorylation of hSrc correlated with PI3K pathway activity in human prostate cancers. We propose that in PTEN-null cells receptor-independent, Src-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of PLEKHS1 creates positive feedback that escapes homeostasis, drives PIP3 signaling, and supports tumor progression.
PXD042046	37567409	Low-dose Bisphenol A exposure alters the functionality and cellular environment in a human cardiomyocyte model. 	Repeated bisphenol A exposure in low concentrations alters the functionality and environment of a human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocyte model	Bisphenol A (BPA), DOHaD, extracellular matrix remodelling, human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs), new approach methodologies (NAMs)	Early embryonic development represents a sensitive time-window during which the foetus might be vulnerable to the exposure of environmental contaminants, potentially leading to heart diseases also later in life. Bisphenol A (BPA), a synthetic chemical widely used in plastics manufacturing, has been associated with heart developmental defects, even in low concentrations. This study aims to investigate the effects of environmentally relevant doses of BPA on developing cardiomyocytes using a human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived model. Firstly, a 2D in vitro differentiation system to obtain cardiomyocytes from hiPSCs (hiPSC-CMs) have been established and characterised to provide a suitable model for the early stages of cardiac development. Then, the effects of a repeated BPA exposure, starting from the undifferentiated stage throughout the differentiation process, were evaluated. The chemical significantly decreased the beat rate of hiPSC-CMs, extending the contraction and relaxation time in a dose-dependent manner. Quantitative proteomics analysis revealed a high abundance of basement membrane (BM) components (e.g., COL4A1, COL4A2, LAMC1, NID2) and a significant increase in TNNC1 and SERBP1 proteins in hiPSC-CMs treated with BPA. Network analysis of proteomics data supported altered extracellular matrix remodelling and provided a disease-gene association with well-known pathological conditions of the heart. Furthermore, upon hypoxia-reoxygenation challenge, hiPSC-CMs treated with BPA showed higher rate of apoptotic events. Taken together, our results revealed that a long-term treatment, even with low doses of BPA, interferes with hiPSC-CMs functionality and alters the surrounding cellular environment, providing new insights about diseases that might arise upon the toxin exposure. Our study contributes to the current understanding of BPA effects on developing human foetal cardiomyocytes, in correlation with human clinical observations and animal studies, and it provides a suitable model for New Approach Methodologies (NAMs) for environmental chemical hazard and risk assessment.
PXD044067	37569243	Identification of Potential Bioactive Peptides in Sheep Milk Kefir through Peptidomic Analysis at Different Fermentation Times. 	Peptide profiling of sheep milk kefir through peptidomic analysis at different fermentation times	biopeptides, dairy, fermented milk, peptidome, sheep	Sheep farming is an important socioeconomic activity in most Mediterranean countries, particularly Spain, where it contributes added value to rural areas. Sheep milk is used in Spain mainly for making cheese, but it can be used also for making other dairy products, such as the lactic-alcoholic fermentation product known as kefir. Dairy products have health benefits because, among other reasons, they contain molecules with biological activity. In this work, we performed a proteomics strategy to identify the peptidome, i.e., the set of peptides contained in sheep milk kefir fermented for four different periods of time, aiming to understand changes in the pattern of digestion of milk proteins, as well as to identify potential bioactive peptides. In total, we identified 1942 peptides coming from 11 different proteins, and found that the unique peptides differed qualitatively among samples and their numbers increased along the fermentation time. These changes were supported by the increase in ethanol, lactic acid, and D-galactose concentrations, as well as proteolytic activity, as the fermentation progressed. By searching in databases, we found that 78 of the identified peptides, all belonging to caseins, had potential biological activity. Of these, 62 were not previously found in any milk kefir from other animal species. This is the first peptidomic study of sheep milk kefir comprising time-course comparison.
PXD040661	37569282	Proteomic Analysis of Dysfunctional Liver Sinusoidal Endothelial Cells Reveals Substantial Differences in Most Common Experimental Models of Chronic Liver Diseases. 	PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS OF DYSFUNCTIONAL LIVER SINUSOIDAL ENDOTHELIAL CELLS REVEALS  SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCES IN MOST COMMON EXPERIMENTAL MODELS OF CHRONIC LIVER  DISEASES.	Animal models, Chronic liver disease, Endothelial dysfunction, Liver sinusoidal endothelial cells	Molecular markers of dedifferentiation of dysfunctional liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSEC) have not been fully elucidated. We aimed at deciphering the molecular profile of dysfunctional LSEC in different pathological scenarios. Flow cytometry was used to sort CD11b(-)/CD32b(+) and CD11b(-)/CD32b(-) LSEC from three rat models of liver disease (bile duct ligation-BDL; inhaled carbon tetrachloride-CCl4; and high fat glucose/fructose diet-HFGFD). A full proteomic profile was performed applying nano-scale liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-MS) and analyzed with PEAKS software. The percentage of CD32b(-) LSEC varied across groups, suggesting different capillarization processes. Both CD32(+) and CD32b(-) LSEC from models are different from control LSEC, but differently expressed proteins in CD32b(-) LSEC are significantly higher. Heatmaps evidenced specific protein expression patterns for each model. Analysis of biological significance comparing dysfunctional CD32b(-) LSEC with specialized CD32b(+) LSEC from controls showed central similarities represented by 45 common down-regulated proteins involved in the suppression of the endocytic machinery and 63 common up-regulated proteins associated with the actin-dependent cytoskeleton reorganization. In summary; substantial differences but also similarities in dysfunctional LSEC from the three most common models of liver disease were found, supporting the idea that LSEC may harbor different protein expression profiles according to the etiology or disease stage.
PXD042354	37569395	A Proteomic Study of the Bioactivity of Annona muricata Leaf Extracts in HT-1080 Fibrosarcoma Cells. 	Aqueous and DMSO extracts from Annona muricata leaves protect from ferroptosis to both HT-1080 fibrosarcoma cells and HMEC-1 endothelial cells.	Annona muricata, Ferroptosis	Graviola (Annona muricata) is a tropical plant with many traditional ethnobotanic uses and pharmacologic applications. A metabolomic study of both aqueous and DMSO extracts from Annona muricata leaves recently allowed us to identify dozens of bioactive compounds. In the present study, we use a proteomic approach to detect altered patterns in proteins on both conditioned media and extracts of HT-1080 fibrosarcoma cells under treatment conditions, revealing new potential bioactivities of Annona muricata extracts. Our results reveal the complete sets of deregulated proteins after treatment with aqueous and DMSO extracts from Annona muricata leaves. Functional enrichment analysis of proteomic data suggests deregulation of cell cycle and iron metabolism, which are experimentally validated in vitro. Additional experimental data reveal that DMSO extracts protect HT-1080 fibrosarcoma cells and HMEC-1 endothelial cells from ferroptosis. Data from our proteomic study are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042354.
PXD042379	37569500	Proteomics of Plasma and Plasma-Treated Podocytes: Application to Focal and Segmental Glomerulosclerosis. 	Proteomics of plasma and plasma-treated podocytes: application to focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis	Plasma, extracellular vesicles, immunodepletion, phosphoproteomics, raftomics	Focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is a severe form of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS), a glomerulopathy of presumably immune origin that is attributed to extrarenal pathogenic circulating factors. The recurrence of FSGS (rFSGS) after transplant occurs in 30% to 50% of cases. The direct analysis of patient plasma proteome has scarcely been addressed to date, mainly due to the methodological difficulties associated with plasma complexity and dynamic range. In this study, first, we compared different methods of plasma preparation, second, we compared the plasma proteomes of rFSGS and controls using two preparation methods, and third, we analyzed the early proximal signaling events in podocytes subjected to patient plasma, through a combination of phosphoproteomics and lipid-raft proteomics (raftomics). By combining immunodepletion and high pH fractionation, we performed a differential proteomic analysis of soluble plasma proteins and of extracellular vesicles (EV) obtained from healthy controls, non-INS patient controls, and rFSGS patients (n = 4). In both the soluble- and the EV-protein sets from the rFSGS patients, we found a statistically significant increase in a cluster of proteins involved in neutrophil degranulation. A group of lipid-binding proteins, generally associated with lipoproteins, was found to be decreased in the soluble set from the rFSGS patients. In addition, three amino acid transporters involved in mTORC1 activation were found to be significantly increased in the EV from the rFSGS. Next, we incubated human podocytes for 30 min with 10% plasma from both groups of patients. The phosphoproteomics and raftomics of the podocytes revealed profound differences in the proteins involved in the mTOR pathway, in autophagy, and in cytoskeleton organization. We analyzed the correlation between the abundance of plasma and plasma-regulated podocyte proteins. The observed changes highlight some of the mechanisms involved in FSGS recurrence and could be used as specific early markers of circulating-factor activity in podocytes.
PXD039847	37569584	Combined Salivary Proteome Profiling and Machine Learning Analysis Provides Insight into Molecular Signature for Autoimmune Liver Diseases Classification. 	Bottom-up Proteomics of Saliva in Autoimmune Hepatitis and Primary Biliary Cholangitis	Autoimmune Hepatitis, Autoimmune Liver Diseases, Bottom-up proteomics, Primary Biliary Cholangitis, saliva	Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) and primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) are autoimmune liver diseases that target the liver and have a wide spectrum of presentation. A global overview of quantitative variations on the salivary proteome in presence of these two pathologies is investigated in this study. The acid-insoluble salivary fraction of AIH and PBC patients, and healthy controls (HCs), was analyzed using a gel-based bottom-up proteomic approach combined with a robust machine learning statistical analysis of the dataset. The abundance of Arginase, Junction plakoglobin, Desmoplakin, Hexokinase-3 and Desmocollin-1 decreased, while that of BPI fold-containing family A member 2 increased in AIHp compared to HCs; the abundance of Gelsolin, CD14, Tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 2, Clusterin, Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins A2/B1, Cofilin-1 and BPI fold-containing family B member 2 increased in PBCp compared to HCs. The abundance of Hornerin decreased in both AIHp and PBCp with respect to HCs and provided an area under the ROC curve of 0.939. Machine learning analysis confirmed the feasibility of the salivary proteome to discriminate groups of subjects based on AIH or PBC occurrence as previously suggested by our group. The topology-based functional enrichment analysis performed on these potential salivary biomarkers highlights an enrichment of terms mostly related to the immune system, but also with a strong involvement in liver fibrosis process and with antimicrobial activity.
PXD044299	37569754	Regulatory Effects of ABA and GA on the Expression of Conglutin Genes and LAFL Network Genes in Yellow Lupine (Lupinus luteus L.) Seeds. 	Effect of ABA and GA application on the accumulation of storage proteins in developing seeds of the yellow lupin cultivar Taper.	Lupinus luteus, conglutin, nanoLC-MS/MS, seeds storage protein, yellow lupine seeds	The maturation of seeds is a process of particular importance both for the plant itself by assuring the survival of the species and for the human population for nutritional and economic reasons. Controlling this process requires a strict coordination of many factors at different levels of the functioning of genetic and hormonal changes as well as cellular organization. One of the most important examples is the transcriptional activity of the LAFL gene regulatory network, which includes LEAFY COTYLEDON1 (LEC1) and LEC1-LIKE (L1L) and ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE3 (ABI3), FUSCA3 (FUS3), and LEC2 (LEAFY COTYLEDON2), as well as hormonal homeostasis-of abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellins (GA) in particular. From the nutritional point of view, the key to seed development is the ability of seeds to accumulate large amounts of proteins with different structures and properties. The world's food deficit is mainly related to shortages of protein, and taking into consideration the environmental changes occurring on Earth, it is becoming necessary to search for a way to obtain large amounts of plant-derived protein while maintaining the diversity of its origin. Yellow lupin, whose storage proteins are conglutins, is one of the plant species native to Europe that accumulates large amounts of this nutrient in its seeds. In this article we have shown the key changes occurring in the developing seeds of the yellow-lupin cultivar Taper by means of modern molecular biology techniques, including RNA-seq, chromatographic techniques and quantitative PCR analysis. We identified regulatory genes fundamental to the seed-filling process, as well as genes encoding conglutins. We also investigated how exogenous application of ABA and GA3 affects the expression of LlLEC2, LlABI3, LlFUS3, and genes encoding beta- and delta-conglutins and whether it results in the amount of accumulated seed storage proteins. The research shows that for each species, even related plants, very specific changes can be identified. Thus the analysis and possibility of using such an approach to improve and stabilize yields requires even more detailed and extended research.
PXD038389	37569817	Differential Modulation of the Phosphoproteome by the MAP Kinases Isoforms p38alpha and p38beta. 	Differential modulation of the phosphoproteome by the MAP Kinases isoforms p38alpha and p38beta	SILAC, p38 MAPK, phosphoproteome, signaling, stress response	The p38 members of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) family mediate various cellular responses to stress conditions, inflammatory signals, and differentiation factors. They are constitutively active in chronic inflammatory diseases and some cancers. The differences between their transient effects in response to signals and the chronic effect in diseases are not known. The family is composed of four isoforms, of which p38alpha seems to be abnormally activated in diseases. p38alpha and p38beta are almost identical in sequence, structure, and biochemical and pharmacological properties, and the specific unique effects of each of them, if any, have not yet been revealed. This study aimed to reveal the specific effects induced by p38alpha and p38beta, both when transiently activated in response to stress and when chronically active. This was achieved via large-scale proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses using stable isotope labeling of two experimental systems: one, mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) deficient in each of these p38 kinases and harboring either an empty vector or vectors expressing p38alpha(WT), p38beta(WT), or intrinsically active variants of these MAPKs; second, induction of transient stress by exposure of MEFs, p38alpha(-/-), and p38beta(-/-) MEFs to anisomycin. Significant differences in the repertoire of the proteome and phosphoproteome between cells expressing active p38alpha and p38beta suggest distinct roles for each kinase. Interestingly, in both cases, the constitutive activation induced adaptations of the cells to the chronic activity so that known substrates of p38 were downregulated. Within the dramatic effect of p38s on the proteome and phosphoproteome, some interesting affected phosphorylation sites were those found in cancer-associated p53 and Hspb1 (HSP27) proteins and in cytoskeleton-associated proteins. Among these, was the stronger direct phosphorylation by p38alpha of p53-Ser309, which was validated on the Ser315 in human p53. In summary, this study sheds new light on the differences between chronic and transient p38alpha and p38beta signaling and on the specific targets of these two kinases.
PXD043969	37574819	Persulfidation maintains cytosolic G6PDs activity through changing tetrameric structure and competing cysteine sulfur oxidation under salt stress in Arabidopsis and tomato. 	Raw data of mass spectrometry -Jisheng Li	AtG6PD6 CXMS Analysis	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenases (G6PDs) are essential regulators of cellular redox. Hydrogen sulfide (H2 S) is a small gasotransmitter that improves plant adaptation to stress; however, its role in regulating G6PD oligomerization to resist oxidative stress remains unknown in plants. Persulfidation of cytosolic G6PDs was analyzed by mass spectrometry (MS). The structural change model of AtG6PD6 homooligomer was built by chemical cross-linking coupled with mass spectrometry (CXMS). We isolated AtG6PD6(C159A) and SlG6PDC(C155A) transgenic lines to confirm the in vivo function of persulfidated sites with the g6pd5,6 background. Persulfidation occurs at Arabidopsis G6PD6 Cystine (Cys)159 and tomato G6PDC Cys155, leading to alterations of spatial distance between lysine (K)491-K475 from 42.0 Aa to 10.3 Aa within the G6PD tetramer. The structural alteration occurs in the structural NADP(+) binding domain, which governs the stability of G6PD homooligomer. Persulfidation enhances G6PD oligomerization, thereby increasing substrate affinity. Under high salt stress, cytosolic G6PDs activity was inhibited due to oxidative modifications. Persulfidation protects these specific sites and prevents oxidative damage. In summary, H2 S-mediated persulfidation promotes cytosolic G6PD activity by altering homotetrameric structure. The cytosolic G6PD adaptive regulation with two kinds of protein modifications at the atomic and molecular levels is critical for the cellular stress response.
PXD043245	37575477	Structure and Function of RhoBTB1 Required for Substrate Specificity and Cullin-3 Ubiquitination. 	RhoBTB1 C-Terminal Binding Proteins	mass spec, protein:protein interactions	We identified Rho-related BTB domain containing 1 (RhoBTB1) as a key regulator of phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) activity, and through PDE5, a regulator of vascular tone. We identified the binding interface for PDE5 on RhoBTB1 by truncating full-length RhoBTB1 into its component domains. Co-immunoprecipitation analyses revealed that the C-terminal half of RhoBTB1 containing its two BTB domains and the C-terminal domain (B1B2C) is the minimal region required for PDE5 recruitment and subsequent proteasomal degradation via Cullin-3 (CUL3). The C-terminal domain was essential in recruiting PDE5 as constructs lacking this region could not participate in PDE5 binding or proteasomal degradation. We also identified Pro(353) and Ser(363) as key amino acid residues in the B1B2C region involved in CUL3 binding to RhoBTB1. Mutation of either of these residues exhibited impaired CUL3 binding and PDE5 degradation, although the binding to PDE5 was preserved. Finally, we employed ascorbate peroxidase 2 (APEX2) proximity labeling using a B1B2C-APEX2 fusion protein as bait to capture unknown RhoBTB1 binding partners. Among several B1B2C-binding proteins identified and validated, we focused on SET domain containing 2 (SETD2). SETD2 and RhoBTB1 directly interacted, and the level of SETD2 increased in response to pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome or Cullin complex, CUL3 deletion, and RhoBTB1-inhibition with siRNA. This suggests that SETD2 is regulated by the RhoBTB1-CUL3 axis. Future studies will determine whether SETD2 plays a role in cardiovascular function.
PXD036048	37575948	Proteomics of adjacent-to-tumor samples uncovers clinically relevant biological events in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis reveals molecular heterogeneity of adjacent-to-tumor samples in hepatocellular carcinoma	hepatocellular carcinoma, heterogeneity, normal tissue adjacent to tumor	Normal adjacent tissues (NATs) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) differ from healthy liver tissues and their heterogeneity may contain biological information associated with disease occurrence and clinical outcome that has yet to be fully evaluated at the proteomic level. This study provides a detailed description of the heterogeneity of NATs and the differences between NATs and healthy livers and revealed that molecular features of tumor subgroups in HCC were partially reflected in their respective NATs. Proteomic data classified HCC NATs into two subtypes (Subtypes 1 and 2), and Subtype 2 was associated with poor prognosis and high-risk recurrence. The pathway and immune features of these two subtypes were characterized. Proteomic differences between the two NAT subtypes and healthy liver tissues were further investigated using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry, revealing the early molecular alterations associated with the progression from healthy livers to NATs. This study provides a high-quality resource for HCC researchers and clinicians and may significantly expand the knowledge of tumor NATs to eventually benefit clinical practice.
PXD043635	37578563	Crosstalk between glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors boosts glucocorticoid-induced killing of multiple myeloma cells. 	Crosstalk between the glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor boosts glucocorticoid-induced killing of multiple myeloma cells	Dexamethasone, GR, MR, Spironolacton, c-myc, glucocorticoid receptor, mineralocorticoid receptor, myeloma	The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is a crucial drug target in multiple myeloma as its activation with glucocorticoids effectively triggers myeloma cell death. However, as high-dose glucocorticoids are also associated with deleterious side effects, novel approaches are urgently needed to improve GR action in myeloma. Here, we reveal a functional crosstalk between GR and the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) that plays a role in improved myeloma cell killing. We show that the GR agonist dexamethasone (Dex) downregulates MR levels in a GR-dependent way in myeloma cells. Co-treatment of Dex with the MR antagonist spironolactone (Spi) enhances Dex-induced cell killing in primary, newly diagnosed GC-sensitive myeloma cells. In a relapsed GC-resistant setting, Spi alone induces distinct myeloma cell killing. On a mechanistic level, we find that a GR-MR crosstalk likely arises from an endogenous interaction between GR and MR in myeloma cells. Quantitative dimerization assays show that Spi reduces Dex-induced GR-MR heterodimerization and completely abolishes Dex-induced MR-MR homodimerization, while leaving GR-GR homodimerization intact. Unbiased transcriptomics analyses reveal that c-myc and many of its target genes are downregulated most by combined Dex-Spi treatment. Proteomics analyses further identify that several metabolic hallmarks are modulated most by this combination treatment. Finally, we identified a subset of Dex-Spi downregulated genes and proteins that may predict prognosis in the CoMMpass myeloma patient cohort. Our study demonstrates that GR-MR crosstalk is therapeutically relevant in myeloma as it provides novel strategies for glucocorticoid-based dose-reduction.
PXD040956	37579183	Urinary Proteomics for Discovery of Gastric Cancer Biomarkers to Enable Precision Clinical Oncology. 	Urinary proteomics for discovery of gastric cancer biomarkers	Gastric cancer, SureQuant, biomarkers, urine	For precision in clinical oncology practice, detection of tumor-derived peptides and proteins in urine offers an attractive and noninvasive alternative for diagnostic or screening purposes. In this study, we report comparative quantitative proteomic profiling of urine samples from patients with gastric cancer and healthy controls using tandem mass tags-based multiplexed mass spectrometry approach. We identified 1504 proteins, of which 246 were differentially expressed in gastric cancer cases. Notably, ephrin A1 (EFNA1), pepsinogen A3 (PGA3), sortilin 1 (SORT1), and vitronectin (VTN) were among the upregulated proteins, which are known to play crucial roles in the progression of gastric cancer. We also found other overexpressed proteins, including shisa family member 5 (SHISA5), mucin like 1 (MUCL1), and leukocyte cell derived chemotaxin 2 (LECT2), which had not previously been linked to gastric cancer. Using a novel approach for targeted proteomics, SureQuant, we validated changes in abundance of a subset of proteins discovered in this study. We confirmed the overexpression of vitronectin and sortilin 1 in an independent set of urine samples. Altogether, this study provides molecular candidates for biomarker development in gastric cancer, and the findings also support the promise of urinary proteomics for noninvasive diagnostics and personalized/precision medicine in the oncology clinic.
PXD033529	37581495	A Proteomics Investigation of Cigarette Smoke Exposed Wistar Rats Revealed Improved Anti-Inflammatory Effects of the Cysteamine Nanoemulsions Delivered via Inhalation. 	A proteomics investigation of cigarette smoke exposed Wistar rats revealed improved anti-inflammatory effects of the cysteamine nanoemulsions delivered via inhalation	COPD, LFQ, Orbitrap based LCMS, cysteamine, maxquant analysis, metaboanalyst, metascape, tryptic peptides	Cigarette smoking is the major cause of chronic inflammatory diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It is paramount to develop pharmacological interventions and delivery strategies against the cigarette smoke (CS) associated oxidative stress in COPD. This study in Wistar rats examined cysteamine in nanoemulsions to counteract the CS distressed microenvironment. In vivo, 28 days of CS and 15 days of cysteamine nanoemulsions treatment starting on 29th day consisting of oral and inhalation routes were established in Wistar rats. In addition, we conducted inflammatory and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) studies in vitro in human bronchial epithelial cell lines (BEAS2B) using 5% CS extract. Inflammatory and anti-inflammatory markers, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1beta, IL-8, IL-10, and IL-13, have been quantified in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) to evaluate the effects of the cysteamine nanoemulsions in normalizing the diseased condition. Histopathological analysis of the alveoli and the trachea showed the distorted, lung parenchyma and ciliated epithelial barrier, respectively. To obtain mechanistic insights into the CS COPD rat model, "shotgun" proteomics of the lung tissues have been carried out using high-resolution mass spectrometry wherein genes such as ABI1, PPP3CA, PSMA2, FBLN5, ACTG1, CSNK2A1, and ECM1 exhibited significant differences across all the groups. Pathway analysis showed autophagy, signaling by receptor tyrosine kinase, cytokine signaling in immune system, extracellular matrix organization, and hemostasis, as the major contributing pathways across all the studied groups. This work offers new preclinical findings on how cysteamine taken orally or inhaled can combat CS-induced oxidative stress.
PXD038042	37582053	IFNgamma protects motor neurons from oxidative stress via enhanced global protein synthesis in FUS-associated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	IFNgamma protects motor neurons from oxidative stress via enhanced global protein synthesis in FUS-associated Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	ALS, ALS6, FUS, IFNy, protein synthesis	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 6 (ALS6) is a familial subtype of ALS linked to Fused in Sarcoma (FUS) gene mutation. FUS mutations lead to decreased global protein synthesis, but the mechanism that drives this has not been established. Here, we used ALS6 patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (hIPSCs) to study the effect of the ALS6 FUS(R521H) mutation on the translation machinery in motor neurons (MNs). We find, in agreement with findings of others, that protein synthesis is decreased in FUS(R521H) MNs. Furthermore, FUS(R521H) MNs are more sensitive to oxidative stress and display reduced expression of TGF-beta and mTORC gene pathways when stressed. Finally, we show that IFNgamma treatment reduces apoptosis of FUS(R521H) MNs exposed to oxidative stress and partially restores the translation rates in FUS(R521H) MNs. Overall, these findings suggest that a functional IFNgamma response is important for FUS-mediated protein synthesis, possibly by FUS nuclear translocation in ALS6.
PXD041876	37582505	Proteomic Characterization of Wheat Protein Fractions Taken at Different Baking Conditions. 	Proteomic characterisation of wheat protein fractions taken at different baking conditions	Baking, foodomics, gluten, label-free quantitation (LFQ)	Food processing conditions affect the structure, solubility, and therefore accurate detection of gluten proteins. We investigated the influence of dough, bread, and pretzel making on the composition of different wheat protein fractions obtained by Osborne fractionation. The albumin/globulin, gliadin, and glutenin fractions from flour, dough, crispbread, bread, and pretzel were analyzed using RP-HPLC, SDS-PAGE, and untargeted nanoLC-MS/MS. This approach enabled an in-depth profiling of the fractionated proteomes and related compositional changes to processing conditions (mixing, heat, and alkali treatment). Overall, heat treatment demonstrated the most pronounced effect. Label-free quantitation revealed significant changes in the relative abundances of 82 proteins within the fractions of bread crumb and crust in comparison to flour. Certain gluten proteins showed shifts or reductions in particular fractions, indicating their incorporation into the gluten network through SS and non-SS cross-links. Other gluten proteins were enriched, suggesting their limited involvement in the gluten network formation.
PXD042073	37583423	Bioinformatics-based screening of key genes for transformation of tyrosine kinase inhibitor-resistant lung adenocarcinoma to small cell lung cancer. 	Mechanism of TP53 and RB1 inactivation-induced neuroendocrine phenotype transformation in TKI-resistant lung adenocarcinoma	LUAD, NOTCH, SCLC, TKI therapy resistance, Transformation	Purpose: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a common type of lung cancer. Cancer in a small number of patients with EGFR mutations will transform from LUAD to small cell lung cancer (SCLC) during epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) therapiesr. The purpose of the present study was to identify the core genes related to the transformation of LUAD into SCLC and to explore the associated molecular mechanisms. Methods: GSE29016, GSE1037, GSE6044 and GSE40275 mRNA microarray datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analyzed to obtain differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between LUAD and SCLC tissues, and the results were used for network analysis of protein-protein interactions (PPIs). After identifying the hub gene by STRING and Cytoscape platform, we explored the relationship between hub genes and the occurrence and development of SCLC. Finally, the obtained hub genes were validated in treated LUAD cells. Results: A total of 41 DEGs were obtained, four hub genes (EZH2, NUSAP1, TTK and UBE2C) were identified, and related prognostic information was obtained. The coexpressed genes of the hub gene set were further screened, and the analysis identified many genes related to the cell cycle. Subsequently, LUAD cell models with TP53 and RB1 inactivation and overexpression of ASCL1 were constructed, and then the expression of hub genes was detected, the results showed that the four hub genes were all elevated in the established cell model. Conclusion: EZH2, NUSAP1, TTK and UBE2C may affect the transformation of LUAD to SCLC and represent new candidate molecular markers for the occurrence and development of SCLC.
PXD041971	37584546	The presence of blastocyst within the uteri facilitates lumenal epithelium transformation for implantation via upregulating lysosome proteostasis activity. 	MS data for uterine luminal epithelia on day of pregnancy in mice	epithelia, lysosome, uteri	ABBREVIATIONS: ACTB: actin beta; AREG: amphiregulin; ATP6V0A4: ATPase, H(+) transporting, lysosomal V0 subunit A4; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CLDN1: claudin 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; E2: 17beta-estradiol; ESR: estrogen receptor; GATA2: GATA binding protein 2; GLA: galactosidase, alpha; GO: gene ontology; HBEGF: heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor; IGF1R: insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor; Ihh: Indian hedgehog; ISH: in situ hybridization; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LCM: laser capture microdissection; Le: lumenal epithelium; LGMN: legumain; LIF: leukemia inhibitory factor; LIFR: LIF receptor alpha; MSX1: msh homeobox 1; MUC1: mucin 1, transmembrane; P4: progesterone; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCA: principal component analysis; PPT1: palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1; PGR: progesterone receptor; PSP: pseudopregnancy; PTGS2/COX2: prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; qPCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; SP: pregnancy; TFEB: transcription factor EB.
PXD034091	37585527	Fibroblasts generate topographical cues that steer cancer cell migration. 	Fibroblast-tracks are topographical cues that direct cancer cell migration	CAFs, cancer, extracellular matrix	Fibroblasts play a fundamental role in tumor development. Among other functions, they regulate cancer cells' migration through rearranging the extracellular matrix, secreting soluble factors, and establishing direct physical contacts with cancer cells. Here, we report that migrating fibroblasts deposit on the substrate a network of tubular structures that serves as a guidance cue for cancer cell migration. Such membranous tubular network, hereafter called tracks, is stably anchored to the substrate in a beta5-integrin-dependent manner. We found that cancer cells specifically adhere to tracks by using clathrin-coated structures that pinch and engulf tracks. Tracks thus represent a spatial memory of fibroblast migration paths that is read and erased by cancer cells directionally migrating along them. We propose that fibroblast tracks represent a topography-based intercellular communication system capable of steering cancer cell migration.
PXD042754	37587118	Heimdall, an alternative protein issued from a ncRNA related to kappa light chain variable region of immunoglobulins from astrocytes: a new player in neural proteome. 	Heimdall, an alternative protein issued from a ncRNA related to kappa light chain variable region of immunoglobulins from astrocytes  : a new player in neural proteome	Altprot, Astrocyte, Heimdall, Immunoglobulin, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	The dogma "One gene, one protein" is clearly obsolete since cells use alternative splicing and generate multiple transcripts which are translated into protein isoforms, but also use alternative translation initiation sites (TISs) and termination sites on a given transcript. Alternative open reading frames for individual transcripts give proteins originate from the 5'- and 3'-UTR mRNA regions, frameshifts of mRNA ORFs or from non-coding RNAs. Longtime considered as non-coding, recent in-silico translation prediction methods enriched the protein databases allowing the identification of new target structures that have not been identified previously. To gain insight into the role of these newly identified alternative proteins in the regulation of cellular functions, it is crucial to assess their dynamic modulation within a framework of altered physiological modifications such as experimental spinal cord injury (SCI). Here, we carried out a longitudinal proteomic study on rat SCI from 12 h to 10 days. Based on the alternative protein predictions, it was possible to identify a plethora of newly predicted protein hits. Among these proteins, some presented a special interest due to high homology with variable chain regions of immunoglobulins. We focus our interest on the one related to Kappa variable light chains which is similarly highly produced by B cells in the Bence jones disease, but here expressed in astrocytes. This protein, name Heimdall is an Intrinsically disordered protein which is secreted under inflammatory conditions. Immunoprecipitation experiments showed that the Heimdall interactome contained proteins related to astrocyte fate keepers such as "NOTCH1, EPHA3, IPO13" as well as membrane receptor protein including "CHRNA9; TGFBR, EPHB6, and TRAM". However, when Heimdall protein was neutralized utilizing a specific antibody or its gene knocked out by CRISPR-Cas9, sprouting elongations were observed in the corresponding astrocytes. Interestingly, depolarization assays and intracellular calcium measurements in Heimdall KO, established a depolarization effect on astrocyte membranes KO cells were more likely that the one found in neuroprogenitors. Proteomic analyses performed under injury conditions or under lipopolysaccharides (LPS) stimulation, revealed the expression of neuronal factors, stem cell proteins, proliferation, and neurogenesis of astrocyte convertor factors such as EPHA4, NOTCH2, SLIT3, SEMA3F, suggesting a role of Heimdall could regulate astrocytic fate. Taken together, Heimdall could be a novel member of the gatekeeping astrocyte-to-neuroprogenitor conversion factors.
PXD041714	37587340	A viral ADP-ribosyltransferase attaches RNA chains to host proteins. 	A viral ADP-ribosyltransferase attaches RNA chains to host proteins	ADP Ribosylation	The mechanisms by which viruses hijack the genetic machinery of the cells they infect are of current interest. When bacteriophage T4 infects Escherichia coli, it uses three different adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosyltransferases (ARTs) to reprogram the transcriptional and translational apparatus of the host by ADP-ribosylation using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) as a substrate(1,2). NAD has previously been identified as a 5' modification of cellular RNAs(3-5). Here we report that the T4 ART ModB accepts not only NAD but also NAD-capped RNA (NAD-RNA) as a substrate and attaches entire RNA chains to acceptor proteins in an 'RNAylation' reaction. ModB specifically RNAylates the ribosomal proteins rS1 and rL2 at defined Arg residues, and selected E. coli and T4 phage RNAs are linked to rS1 in vivo. T4 phages that express an inactive mutant of ModB have a decreased burst size and slowed lysis of E. coli. Our findings reveal a distinct biological role for NAD-RNA, namely the activation of the RNA for enzymatic transfer to proteins. The attachment of specific RNAs to ribosomal proteins might provide a strategy for the phage to modulate the host's translation machinery. This work reveals a direct connection between RNA modification and post-translational protein modification. ARTs have important roles far beyond viral infections(6), so RNAylation may have far-reaching implications.
PXD037638	37587470	Integrated multi-omics analyses reveal Jorunnamycin A as a novel suppressor for muscle-invasive bladder cancer by targeting FASN and TOP1. 	Jorunnamycin treated bladder cancer for proteomics sequencing	Jorunnamycin, apoptosis, bladder cancer	BACKGROUND: Bladder cancer is a urological carcinoma with high incidence, among which muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) is a malignant carcinoma with high mortality. There is an urgent need to develop new drugs with low toxicity and high efficiency for MIBC because existing medication has defects, such as high toxicity, poor efficacy, and side effects. Jorunnamycin A (JorA), a natural marine compound, has been found to have a high efficiency anticancer effect, but its anticancer function and mechanism on bladder cancer have not been studied. METHODS: To examine the anticancer effect of JorA on MIBC, Cell Counting Kit 8, EdU staining, and colony formation analyses were performed. Moreover, a xenograft mouse model was used to verify the anticancer effect in vivo. To investigate the pharmacological mechanism of JorA, high-throughput quantitative proteomics, transcriptomics, RT-qPCR, western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometry, pulldown assays, and molecular docking were performed. RESULTS: JorA inhibited the proliferation of MIBC cells, and the IC50 of T24 and UM-UC-3 was 0.054 and 0.084 muM, respectively. JorA-induced significantly changed proteins were enriched in "cancer-related pathways" and "EGFR-related signaling pathways", which mainly manifested by inhibiting cell proliferation and promoting cell apoptosis. Specifically, JorA dampened the DNA synthesis rate, induced phosphatidylserine eversion, and inhibited cell migration. Furthermore, it was discovered that fatty acid synthase (FASN) and topoisomerase 1 (TOP1) are the JorA interaction proteins. Using DockThor software, the 3D docking structures of JorA binding to FASN and TOP1 were obtained (the binding affinities were - 8.153 and - 7.264 kcal/mol, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: The marine compound JorA was discovered to have a specific inhibitory effect on MIBC, and its potential pharmacological mechanism was revealed for the first time. This discovery makes an important contribution to the development of new high efficiency and low toxicity drugs for bladder cancer therapy.
PXD043632	37587486	Warburg effect enhanced by AKR1B10 promotes acquired resistance to pemetrexed in lung cancer-derived brain metastasis. 	Warburg effect enhanced by AKR1B10 promotes acquired resistance to pemetrexed in lung cancer-derived brain metastasis	AKR1B10, Pemetrexed, Warburg metabolism, brain metastasis, chemotherapeutic resistance, histone lactylation, lung cancer	BACKGROUND: Resistance to pemetrexed (PEM), a rare chemotherapeutic agent that can efficiently cross the blood-brain barrier, limits the therapeutic efficacy for patients with lung cancer brain metastasis (BM). Aldo-keto reductase family 1 B10 (AKR1B10) was recently found to be elevated in lung cancer BM. The link between AKR1B10 and BM-acquired PEM is unknown. METHODS: PEM drug-sensitivity was assessed in the preclinical BM model of PC9 lung adenocarcinoma cells and the BM cells with or without AKR1B10 interference in vitro and in vivo. Metabolic reprogramming of BM attributed to AKR1B10 was identified by chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) metabolomics, and the mechanism of how AKR1B10 mediates PEM chemoresistance via a way of modified metabolism was revealed by RNA sequencing as well as further molecular biology experimental approaches. RESULTS: The lung cancer brain metastatic subpopulation cells (PC9-BrM3) exhibited significant resistance to PEM and silencing AKR1B10 in PC9-BrM3 increased the PEM sensitivity in vitro and in vivo. Metabolic profiling revealed that AKR1B10 prominently facilitated the Warburg metabolism characterized by the overproduction of lactate. Glycolysis regulated by AKR1B10 is vital for the resistance to PEM. In mechanism, AKR1B10 promoted glycolysis by regulating the expression of lactate dehydrogenase (LDHA) and the increased lactate, acts as a precursor that stimulates histone lactylation (H4K12la), activated the transcription of CCNB1 and accelerated the DNA replication and cell cycle. CONCLUSIONS: Our finding demonstrates that AKR1B10/glycolysis/H4K12la/CCNB1 promotes acquired PEM chemoresistance in lung cancer BM, providing novel strategies to sensitize PEM response in the treatment of lung cancer patients suffering from BM.
PXD039310	37587524	Multilayer omics reveals the molecular mechanism of early infection of Clonorchis sinensis juvenile. 	Proteomics of  Mus musculus liver infected with Clonorchis sinensis	Clonorchis sinensis, liver, mice	BACKGROUND: Clonorchiasis remains a non-negligible global zoonosis, causing serious socioeconomic burdens in endemic areas. Clonorchis sinensis infection typically elicits Th1/Th2 mixed immune responses during the course of biliary injury and periductal fibrosis. However, the molecular mechanism by which C. sinensis juvenile initially infects the host remains poorly understood. METHODS: The BALB/c mouse model was established to study early infection (within 7 days) with C. sinensis juveniles. Liver pathology staining and observation as well as determination of biochemical enzymes, blood routine and cytokines in blood were conducted. Furthermore, analysis of liver transcriptome, proteome and metabolome changes was performed using multi-omics techniques. Statistical analyses were performed using Student's t-test. RESULTS: Histopathological analysis revealed that liver injury, characterized by collagen deposition and inflammatory cell infiltration, occurred as early as 24 h of infection. Blood indicators including ALT, AST, WBC, CRP and IL-6 indicated that both liver injury and systemic inflammation worsened as the infection progressed. Proteomic data showed that apoptosis and junction-related pathways were enriched within 3 days of infection, indicating the occurrence of liver injury. Furthermore, proteomic and transcriptomic analysis jointly verified that the detoxification and antioxidant defense system was activated by enrichment of glutathione metabolism and cytochrome P450-related pathways in response to acute liver injury. Proteomic-based GO analysis demonstrated that biological processes such as cell deformation, proliferation, migration and wound healing occurred in the liver during the early infection. Correspondingly, transcriptomic results showed significant enrichment of cell cycle pathway on day 3 and 7. In addition, the KEGG analysis of multi-omics data demonstrated that numerous pathways related to immunity, inflammation, tumorigenesis and metabolism were enriched in the liver. Besides, metabolomic screening identified several metabolites that could promote inflammation and hepatobiliary periductal fibrosis, such as CA7S. CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed that acute inflammatory injury was rapidly triggered by initial infection by C. sinensis juveniles in the host, accompanied by the enrichment of detoxification, inflammation, fibrosis, tumor and metabolism-related pathways in the liver, which provides a new perspective for the early intervention and therapy of clonorchiasis.
PXD031373	37587695	Absence of mitochondrial SLC25A51 enhances PARP1-dependent DNA repair by increasing nuclear NAD+ levels. 	Lack of the mitochondrial NAD transporter SLC25A51 redistributes NAD+ compartmentalization and cellular ADP-ribosylation	ADP-ribosylation, Mitochondia, SL25A51	Though the effect of the recently identified mitochondrial NAD+ transporter SLC25A51 on glucose metabolism has been described, its contribution to other NAD+-dependent processes throughout the cell such as ADP-ribosylation remains elusive. Here, we report that absence of SLC25A51 leads to increased NAD+ concentration not only in the cytoplasm and but also in the nucleus. The increase is not associated with upregulation of the salvage pathway, implying an accumulation of constitutively synthesized NAD+ in the cytoplasm and nucleus. This results in an increase of PARP1-mediated nuclear ADP-ribosylation, as well as faster repair of DNA lesions induced by different single-strand DNA damaging agents. Lastly, absence of SLC25A51 reduces both MMS/Olaparib induced PARP1 chromatin retention and the sensitivity of different breast cancer cells to PARP1 inhibition. Together these results provide evidence that SLC25A51 might be a novel target to improve PARP1 inhibitor based therapies by changing subcellular NAD+ redistribution.
PXD016223	37588005	Impaired Abcb1a function and red meat in a translational colitis mouse model induces inflammation and alters microbiota composition. 	Data in support of Omics investigation of the Intestinal inflammation and Gut Microbiota in ABCB1a Gene  Knock-Out Mouse model	CRC, abcb1, ibd	Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) affects approximately 0.3% of the global population, with incidence rates rising dramatically worldwide. Emerging evidence points to an interplay between exposome factors such as diet and gut microbiota, host genetics, and the immune system as crucial elements in IBD development. ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, including human p-glycoprotein encoded by the Abcb1 gene, influence intestinal inflammation, and their expression may interact with environmental factors such as diet and gut microbes. Our study aimed to examine the impact of protein sources on a genetic colitis mouse model. Methods: Abcb1a-deficient colitis mice were fed either casein or red meat-supplemented diets to investigate potential colitis-aggravating components in red meat and their effects on host-microbiota interactions. We conducted deep label free quantitative proteomic inflammation profiling of gastrointestinal tissue (colon, ileum) and urine, and determined the overall microbiome in feces using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Microbiota shifts by diet and protein transporter impairment were addressed by multivariate statistical analysis. Colon and systemic gut inflammation were validated through histology and immune assays, respectively. Results: A quantitative discovery based proteomic analysis of intestinal tissue and urine revealed associations between ileum and urine proteomes in relation to Abcb1a deficiency. The absence of Abcb1a efflux pump function and diet-induced intestinal inflammation impacted multiple systemic immune processes, including extensive neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) components observed in relation to neutrophil degranulation throughout the gastrointestinal tract. The colitis model's microbiome differed significantly from that of wild-type mice, indicating the substantial influence of efflux transporter deficiency on microbiota. Conclusion: The proteomic and microbiota analyzes of a well-established murine model enabled the correlation of gastrointestinal interactions not readily identifiable in human cohorts. Insights into dysregulated biological pathways in this disease model might offer translational biomarkers based on NETs and improved understanding of IBD pathogenesis in human patients. Our findings demonstrate that drug transporter deficiency induces substantial changes in the microbiota, leading to increased levels of IBD-associated strains and resulting in intestinal inflammation. GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT.
PXD042087	37588604	A high-salt diet promotes hypertrophic scarring through TRPC3-mediated mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis dysfunction. 	High-salt diet promotes hypertrophic scarring through TRPC3-mediated mitochondrial Ca2+ homeostasis dysfunction	High salt, TRPC3, hypertrophic scar	Diet High in salt content have been associated with cardiovascular disease and chronic inflammation. We recently demonstrated that transient receptor potential canonical 3 (TRPC3) channels regulate myofibroblast transdifferentiation in hypertrophic scars. Here, we examined how high salt activation of TRPC3 participates in hypertrophic scarring during wound healing. In vitro, we confirmed that high salt increased the TRPC3 protein expression and the marker of myofibroblast alpha smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) in wild-type mice (WT) primary cultured dermal fibroblasts but not Trpc3-/- mice. Activation of TRPC3 by high salt elevated cytosolic Ca(2+) influx and mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake in dermal fibroblasts in a TRPC3-dependent manner. High salt activation of TRPC3 enhanced mitochondrial respiratory dysfunction and excessive ROS production by inhibiting pyruvate dehydrogenase action, that activated ROS-triggered Ca(2+) influx and the Rho kinase/MLC pathway in WT mice but not Trpc3-/- mice. In vivo, a persistent high-salt diet promoted myofibroblast transdifferentiation and collagen deposition in a TRPC3-dependent manner. Therefore, this study demonstrates that high salt enhances myofibroblast transdifferentiation and promotes hypertrophic scar formation through enhanced mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis, which activates the ROS-mediated pMLC/pMYPT1 pathway. TRPC3 deficiency antagonizes high salt diet-induced hypertrophic scarring. TRPC3 may be a novel target for hypertrophic scarring during wound healing.
PXD040898	37589412	A Combined Gas-Phase Separation Strategy for ADP-ribosylated Peptides. 	A combined gas phase separation strategy for ADP-ribosylated peptides	Gas-phase segmentation, gas-phase fragmentation, high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry, mono-ADP-ribose, ribosylation	ADP-ribosylation (ADPr) is a post-translational modification that is best studied using mass spectrometry. Method developments that are permissive with low inputs or baseline levels of protein ribosylation represent the next frontier in the field. High-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) reduces peptide complexity in the gas phase, providing a means to achieve maximal ADPr peptide sequencing depth. We therefore investigated the extent to which FAIMS with or without traditional gas-phase fractionation-separation (GPS) can increase the number of ADPr peptides. We examined ADPr peptides enriched from mouse spleens. We gleaned additional insight by also reporting findings from the corresponding non-ADPr peptide contaminants and the peptide inputs for ADPr peptide enrichment. At increasingly higher negative compensation voltages, ADPr peptides were more stable, whereas the non-ADPr peptides were filtered out. A combination of 3 GPS survey scans, each with 8 compensation voltages, resulted in 790 high-confidence ADPr peptides, compared to 90 with GPS alone. A simplified acquisition strategy requiring only two injections corresponding to two MS1 scan ranges coupled to optimized compensation voltage settings provided 402 ADPr peptides corresponding to 234 ADPr proteins. We conclude that our combined GPS strategy is a valuable addition to any ADP-ribosylome workflow. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD040898.
PXD040751	37589783	The Influence of Protein Secretomes of Enterococcus durans on ex vivo Human Gut Microbiome. 	Effect of Edurans secretome of human microbiome	metaproteomics, microbiome, probiotics	The gut microbiome plays a critical role to all animals and humans health. Methods based on ex vivo cultures are time and cost-effective solutions for rapid evaluation of probiotic effects on microbiomes. In this study, we assessed whether the protein secretome from the potential probiotic Enterococcus durans LAB18S grown on fructoligosaccharides (FOS) and galactoligosaccharides (GOS) had specific effects on ex vivo cultured intestinal microbiome obtained from a healthy individual. Metaproteomics was used to evaluate changes in microbial communities of the human intestinal microbiome. Hierarchical clustering analysis revealed 654 differentially abundant proteins from the metaproteome samples, showing that gut microbial protein expression varied on the presence of different E. durans secretomes. Increased amount of Bacteroidetes phylum was observed in treatments with secretomes from E. durans cultures on FOS, GOS and albumin, resulting in a decrease of the Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes (F/B) ratio. The most functionally abundant bacterial taxa were Roseburia, Bacteroides, Alistipes and Faecalibacterium. The results suggest that the secretome of E. durans may have favorable effects on the intestinal microbial composition, stimulating growth and different protein expression of beneficial bacteria. These findings suggest that proteins secreted by E. durans growing on FOS and GOS have different effects on the modulation of gut microbiota functional activities during cultivation.
PXD035870	37590279	Label-Free Multiplex Proteotyping of Microbial Isolates. 	Proteomics of mixtures of specific fractions from microbial isolates for multiplex proteotyping without labeling	bacterial isolates, multiplex, proteotyping, tandem mass spectrometry, taxonomy	To meet clinical diagnostic needs and for general microbiological screening, it is essential to be able to accurately and rapidly identify any microorganisms from complex microbiota. To gain insight into the individual components of microbiota, culturomics has been proposed as a means to systematically test hundreds of possible cultivation conditions and generate numerous microbial isolates with very distinct characteristics. High-throughput identification methods must now be developed to quickly screen these isolates. Currently, most multiplexing methods involve labeling, which comes at a cost. In this paper, we present an innovative label-free multiplexing method for the identification of microorganisms using tandem mass spectrometry. The method is based on offline reversed-phase fractionation of individual peptidomes. Multiplexing is achieved by mixing fractions of staged hydrophobicity; thus, each sample is mapped to specific elution times. In this proof-of-concept study, multiplexed samples were analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry in a single run and microorganisms present in the mixture were resolved by phylopeptidomics proteotyping. Using this methodology, up to 21 microorganisms could be identified in a single 60 min run performed with a Q-Exactive HF high-resolution mass spectrometer, resulting in a rate of one microorganism identified per 3 min of mass spectrometry, without any need for the use of labeling reagents. This approach opens new perspectives for the application of high-throughput proteotyping of bacteria using tandem mass spectrometry in large culturomics projects.
PXD044240	37590372	DNSN-1 recruits GINS for CMG helicase assembly during DNA replication initiation in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	DNSN-1 recruits GINS for CMG helicase assembly during DNA replication initiation in C. elegans	C. elegans, CMG helicase, DNA replication, DNSN-1, DONSON, MUS-101, Meier Gorlin Syndrome	Assembly of the CMG (CDC-45-MCM-2-7-GINS) helicase is the key regulated step during eukaryotic DNA replication initiation. Until now, it was unclear whether metazoa require additional factors that are not present in yeast. In this work, we show that Caenorhabditis elegans DNSN-1, the ortholog of human DONSON, functions during helicase assembly in a complex with MUS-101/TOPBP1. DNSN-1 is required to recruit the GINS complex to chromatin, and a cryo-electron microscopy structure indicates that DNSN-1 positions GINS on the MCM-2-7 helicase motor (comprising the six MCM-2 to MCM-7 proteins), by direct binding of DNSN-1 to GINS and MCM-3, using interfaces that we show are important for initiation and essential for viability. These findings identify DNSN-1 as a missing link in our understanding of DNA replication initiation, suggesting that initiation defects underlie the human disease syndrome that results from DONSON mutations.
PXD037799	37590410	CD44 acts as a coreceptor for cell-specific enhancement of signaling and regulatory T cell induction by TGM1, a parasite TGF-beta mimic. 	CD44 acts as a co-receptor to confer cell type-specific enhancement of signaling and regulatory T cell induction by TGM-1, a helminth parasite mimic of TGF	Complement Control Protein, Convergent evolution, Fibroblast, Heligmosomoides polygyrus, Lymphocyte, TGF-beta mimic	Long-lived parasites evade host immunity through highly evolved molecular strategies. The murine intestinal helminth, Heligmosomoides polygyrus, down-modulates the host immune system through release of an immunosuppressive TGF-beta mimic, TGM1, which is a divergent member of the CCP (Sushi) protein family. TGM1 comprises 5 domains, of which domains 1-3 (D1/2/3) bind mammalian TGF-beta receptors, acting on T cells to induce Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells; however, the roles of domains 4 and 5 (D4/5) remain unknown. We noted that truncated TGM1, lacking D4/5, showed reduced potency. Combination of D1/2/3 and D4/5 as separate proteins did not alter potency, suggesting that a physical linkage is required and that these domains do not deliver an independent signal. Coprecipitation from cells treated with biotinylated D4/5, followed by mass spectrometry, identified the cell surface protein CD44 as a coreceptor for TGM1. Both full-length and D4/5 bound strongly to a range of primary cells and cell lines, to a greater degree than D1/2/3 alone, although some cell lines did not respond to TGM1. Ectopic expression of CD44 in nonresponding cells conferred responsiveness, while genetic depletion of CD44 abolished enhancement by D4/5 and ablated the ability of full-length TGM1 to bind to cell surfaces. Moreover, CD44-deficient T cells showed attenuated induction of Foxp3 by full-length TGM1, to levels similar to those induced by D1/2/3. Hence, a parasite protein known to bind two host cytokine receptor subunits has evolved a third receptor specificity, which serves to raise the avidity and cell type-specific potency of TGF-beta signaling in mammalian cells.
PXD042962	37590507	Proteomic Profiling and Tumor Microenvironment Characterization Reveal Molecular and Immunological Hallmarks of Left-Sided and Right-Sided Colon Cancer Tumorigenesis. 	Proteomic profiling and tumor microenvironment characterization reveal molecular and immunological hallmarks of left-sided and right-sided colon cancer tumorigenesis	DIA-MS, LSCC, RSCC, TME, proteomic profile, tumorigenesis	Left-sided and right-sided colon cancer (LSCC and RSCC) display different biological and clinical characteristics. However, the differences in their tumorigenesis and tumor microenvironment remain unclear. In this study, we profiled the proteomic landscapes of LSCC and RSCC with data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) using fresh tumor and adjacent normal tissues from 24 patients. A total of 7403 proteingroups were primarily identified with DIA-MS. After quality control, 7212 proteingroups were used for further analysis. Through comparing the difference in proteomic profiles between LSCC and RSCC samples, 2556 commonly and 1982 region-type-specific regulated proteingroups were characterized. During the development of LSCC and RSCC, metabolic, growth, cell division, cell adhesion, and migration pathways were found to be significantly dysregulated (P < 0.05), which was further confirmed by transcriptome data from TCGA. Compared to RSCC, most parts of the immune-related signatures, immune cell infiltration scores, and overall immune scores of LSCC were higher. The systematic elucidation of proteomic and transcriptomic profiles in this work improves our understanding of tumorigenesis and immune microenvironment characteristics of LSCC and RSCC.
PXD041655	37591201	A Noelin-organized extracellular network of proteins required for constitutive and context-dependent anchoring of AMPA-receptors. 	A Noelin-organized extracellular network of proteins required for constitutive and context-dependent anchoring of AMPA-receptors	AMPA receptors, Molecular Neuroscience	Information processing and storage in the brain rely on AMPA-receptors (AMPARs) and their context-dependent dynamics in synapses and extra-synaptic sites. We found that distribution and dynamics of AMPARs in the plasma membrane are controlled by Noelins, a three-member family of conserved secreted proteins expressed throughout the brain in a cell-type-specific manner. Noelin tetramers tightly assemble with the extracellular domains of AMPARs and interconnect them in a network-like configuration with a variety of secreted and membrane-anchored proteins including Neurexin1, Neuritin1, and Seizure 6-like. Knock out of Noelins1-3 profoundly reduced AMPARs in synapses onto excitatory and inhibitory (inter)neurons, decreased their density and clustering in dendrites, and abolished activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. Our results uncover an endogenous mechanism for extracellular anchoring of AMPARs and establish Noelin-organized networks as versatile determinants of constitutive and context-dependent neurotransmission.
PXD043637	37591242	FBXL12 degrades FANCD2 to regulate replication recovery and promote cancer cell survival under conditions of replication stress. 	FBXL12 degrades FANCD2 to regulate replication recovery and promote cancer cell survival under conditions of replication stress	FANCD2, FBXL12, Fanconi anaemia, SCF ubiquitin ligase, replication stress	Fanconi anemia (FA) signaling, a key genomic maintenance pathway, is activated in response to replication stress. Here, we report that phosphorylation of the pivotal pathway protein FANCD2 by CHK1 triggers its FBXL12-dependent proteasomal degradation, facilitating FANCD2 clearance at stalled replication forks. This promotes efficient DNA replication under conditions of CYCLIN E- and drug-induced replication stress. Reconstituting FANCD2-deficient fibroblasts with phosphodegron mutants failed to re-establish fork progression. In the absence of FBXL12, FANCD2 becomes trapped on chromatin, leading to replication stress and excessive DNA damage. In human cancers, FBXL12, CYCLIN E, and FA signaling are positively correlated, and FBXL12 upregulation is linked to reduced survival in patients with high CYCLIN E-expressing breast tumors. Finally, depletion of FBXL12 exacerbated oncogene-induced replication stress and sensitized cancer cells to drug-induced replication stress by WEE1 inhibition. Collectively, our results indicate that FBXL12 constitutes a vulnerability and a potential therapeutic target in CYCLIN E-overexpressing cancers.
PXD039652	37591507	Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Secretome Is Affected by Tissue Source and Donor Age. 	Mesenchymal Stromal Cell secretome is affected by tissue source and donor age.	age, donor, equine, mesenchymal stromal cells, secretome	Variation in mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) function depending on their origin is problematic, as it may confound clinical outcomes of MSC therapy. Current evidence suggests that the therapeutic benefits of MSCs are attributed to secretion of biologically active factors (secretome). However, the effect of donor characteristics on the MSC secretome remains largely unknown. Here, we examined the influence of donor age, sex, and tissue source, on the protein profile of the equine MSC secretome. We used dynamic metabolic labeling with stable isotopes combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify secreted proteins in MSC conditioned media (CM). Seventy proteins were classified as classically secreted based on the rate of label incorporation into newly synthesized proteins released into the extracellular space. Next, we analyzed CM of bone marrow- (n = 14) and adipose-derived MSCs (n = 16) with label-free LC-MS/MS. Clustering analysis of 314 proteins detected across all samples identified tissue source as the main factor driving variability in MSC CM proteomes. Linear modelling applied to the subset of 70 secreted proteins identified tissue-related difference in the abundance of 23 proteins. There was an age-related decrease in the abundance of CTHRC1 and LOX, further validated with orthogonal techniques. Due to the lack of flow cytometry characterization of MSC surface markers, the analysis could not account for the potential effect of cell population heterogeneity. This study provides evidence that tissue source and donor age contribute to differences in the protein composition of MSC secretomes which may influence the effects of MSC therapy.
PXD043419	37591859	An ATR-PrimPol pathway confers tolerance to oncogenic KRAS-induced and heterochromatin-associated replication stress. 	PrimPol-phosphoproteomics by IP-GeLC-MS/MS	PrimPol, phosphorylation	Activation of the KRAS oncogene is a source of replication stress, but how this stress is generated and how it is tolerated by cancer cells remain poorly understood. Here we show that induction of KRAS(G12V) expression in untransformed cells triggers H3K27me3 and HP1-associated chromatin compaction in an RNA transcription dependent manner, resulting in replication fork slowing and cell death. Furthermore, elevated ATR expression is necessary and sufficient for tolerance of KRAS(G12V)-induced replication stress to expand replication stress-tolerant cells (RSTCs). PrimPol is phosphorylated at Ser255, a potential Chk1 substrate site, under KRAS(G12V)-induced replication stress and promotes repriming to maintain fork progression and cell survival in an ATR/Chk1-dependent manner. However, ssDNA gaps are generated at heterochromatin by PrimPol-dependent repriming, leading to genomic instability. These results reveal a role of ATR-PrimPol in enabling precancerous cells to survive KRAS-induced replication stress and expand clonally with accumulation of genomic instability.
PXD044161	37591886	Gut microbiota-derived tryptamine and phenethylamine impair insulin sensitivity in metabolic syndrome and irritable bowel syndrome. 	Investigating the mechanism(s) underlying tryptamine and phenethylamine inhibition on insulin signaling	mouse adipose tissue LC-MS	The incidence of metabolic syndrome is significantly higher in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), but the mechanisms involved remain unclear. Gut microbiota is causatively linked with the development of both metabolic dysfunctions and gastrointestinal disorders, thus gut dysbiosis in IBS may contribute to the development of metabolic syndrome. Here, we show that human gut bacterium Ruminococcus gnavus-derived tryptamine and phenethylamine play a pathogenic role in gut dysbiosis-induced insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes (T2D) and IBS. We show levels of R. gnavus, tryptamine, and phenethylamine are positively associated with insulin resistance in T2D patients and IBS patients. Monoassociation of R. gnavus impairs insulin sensitivity and glucose control in germ-free mice. Mechanistically, treatment of R. gnavus-derived metabolites tryptamine and phenethylamine directly impair insulin signaling in major metabolic tissues of healthy mice and monkeys and this effect is mediated by the trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1)-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling axis. Our findings suggest a causal role for tryptamine/phenethylamine-producers in the development of insulin resistance, provide molecular mechanisms for the increased prevalence of metabolic syndrome in IBS, and highlight the TAAR1 signaling axis as a potential therapeutic target for the management of metabolic syndrome induced by gut dysbiosis.
PXD043586	37592014	Intrinsically disordered domain of transcription factor TCF-1 is required for T cell developmental fidelity. 	Intrinsically disordered domain of transcription factor TCF-1 is required for T cell developmental fidelity	IDRs, L1, T-cells, TCF-1, transcription factor	In development, pioneer transcription factors access silent chromatin to reveal lineage-specific gene programs. The structured DNA-binding domains of pioneer factors have been well characterized, but whether and how intrinsically disordered regions affect chromatin and control cell fate is unclear. Here, we report that deletion of an intrinsically disordered region of the pioneer factor TCF-1 (termed L1) leads to an early developmental block in T cells. The few T cells that develop from progenitors expressing TCF-1 lacking L1 exhibit lineage infidelity distinct from the lineage diversion of TCF-1-deficient cells. Mechanistically, L1 is required for activation of T cell genes and repression of GATA2-driven genes, normally reserved to the mast cell and dendritic cell lineages. Underlying this lineage diversion, L1 mediates binding of TCF-1 to its earliest target genes, which are subject to repression as T cells develop. These data suggest that the intrinsically disordered N terminus of TCF-1 maintains T cell lineage fidelity.
PXD035225	37592911	Cohesin contributes to transcriptional repression of stage-specific genes in the human malaria parasite. 	Cohesin is involved in transcriptional repression of invasion-related genes	Cohesin, Plasmodium, SMC3	The complex life cycle of the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, is driven by specific transcriptional programs, but it is unclear how most genes are activated or silenced at specific times. There is an association between transcription and spatial organization; however, the molecular mechanisms behind genome organization are unclear. While P. falciparum lacks key genome-organizing proteins found in metazoans, it has all core components of the cohesin complex. To investigate the role of cohesin in P. falciparum, we functionally characterize the cohesin subunit Structural Maintenance of Chromosomes protein 3 (SMC3). SMC3 knockdown during early stages of the intraerythrocytic developmental cycle (IDC) upregulates a subset of genes involved in erythrocyte egress and invasion, which are normally expressed at later stages. ChIP-seq analyses reveal that during the IDC, SMC3 enrichment at the promoter regions of these genes inversely correlates with gene expression and chromatin accessibility. These data suggest that SMC3 binding contributes to the repression of specific genes until their appropriate time of expression, revealing a new mode of stage-specific gene repression in P. falciparum.
PXD043348	37592978	A chemical probe unravels the reactive proteome of health-associated catechols. 	A chemical probe unravels the reactive proteome of health-associated catechols	HEK293, Q Exactive Plus, SH-SY5Y, catechols, dopamine	Catechol-containing natural products are common constituents of foods, drinks, and drugs. Natural products carrying this motif are often associated with beneficial biological effects such as anticancer activity and neuroprotection. However, the molecular mode of action behind these properties is poorly understood. Here, we apply a mass spectrometry-based competitive chemical proteomics approach to elucidate the target scope of catechol-containing bioactive molecules from diverse foods and drugs. Inspired by the protein reactivity of catecholamine neurotransmitters, we designed and synthesised a broadly reactive minimalist catechol chemical probe based on dopamine. Initial labelling experiments in live human cells demonstrated broad protein binding by the probe, which was largely outcompeted by its parent compound dopamine. Next, we investigated the competition profile of a selection of biologically relevant catechol-containing substances. With this approach, we characterised the protein reactivity and the target scope of dopamine and ten biologically relevant catechols. Strikingly, proteins associated with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) were among the main targets. ER stress assays in the presence of reactive catechols revealed an activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR). The UPR is highly relevant in oncology and cellular resilience, which may provide an explanation of the health-promoting effects attributed to many catechol-containing natural products.
PXD043630	37594074	ORMDL3-mediated bronchial epithelial pyroptosis leads to lung inflammation in obese mice with asthma. 	ORMDL3-mediated bronchial epithelial pyroptosis leads to lung inflammatory in obese asthmatic mice	ORMDL3, bronchial epithelial cell, lysosome, obese asthmatic, pyroptosis	Asthma associated with obesity is a chronic disease that poses a threat to health in children and results in severe wheezing, earlier airway remodeling and increased insensitivity to hormone therapy compared with those who only have asthma. Despite its clinical importance, knowledge on the underlying mechanisms of this disease is limited. The present study aimed to elucidate the pathogenesis of asthma associated with obesity using a murine model. A total of 30 female BALB/c mice were divided into three groups: Normal, mice with asthma and obese mice with asthma. Obese mice with asthma were fed a high-fat diet to induce obesity. Mice with asthma were sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin (OVA). Obese mice were subjected to OVA sensitization and challenge to develop asthma associated with obesity. Airway remodeling was observed in obese mice with asthma through HE and Masson staining. Proteomic and bioinformatics analyses were conducted on lung tissue from obese mice with asthma and normal mice. A total of 200 proteins were differentially expressed in obese mice with asthma compared with normal mice; of these, 53 and 47% were up- and downregulated, respectively. Pathway analysis revealed that asthma associated with obesity primarily affected the 'lysosome', 'phagosome', and 'sphingolipid metabolism' pathways. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis demonstrated the presence of pyroptosis in obese asthmatic mice, along with significant increases in pyroptosis--associated factors such as GSDMD and Caspase. High protein expression of orosomucoid-like 3 (ORMDL3), NOD-like receptor thermal protein domain associated protein 3 (NLRP3) and Gasdermin-D (GSDMD) was observed in obese mice with asthma. In vitro experiments using HBE cells infected with ORMDL3-overexpressing lentivirus demonstrated that the overexpression of ORMDL3 led to increased expression of NLRP3, GSDMD and cathepsin D (CTSD). These findings suggested that ORMDL3 may regulate pyroptosis and subsequent airway remodeling in asthma associated with obesity via the CTSD/NLRP3/GSDMD pathway.
PXD041547	37594969	Comparative proteomic analysis of exosomes derived from endothelial cells and Schwann cells. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of exosomes derived from endothelial cells and Schwann cells	Schwann cells, endothelial cells, exosomes, protein	Exosomes derived from endothelial cells and Schwann cells have been employed as novel treatments of neurological diseases, including peripheral neuropathy. Exosomal cargo plays a critical role in mediating recipient cell function. In this study, we thus performed a comprehensive proteomic analysis of exosomes derived from healthy mouse dermal microvascular endothelial cells (EC-Exo) and healthy mouse Schwann cells (SC-Exo). We detected 1,817and 1,579 proteins in EC-Exo and SC-Exo, respectively. Among them, 1506 proteins were present in both EC-Exo and SC-Exo, while 311 and 73 proteins were detected only in EC-Exo and SC-Exo, respectively. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that EC-Exo enriched proteins were involved in neurovascular function, while SC-Exo enriched proteins were related to lipid metabolism. Western blot analysis of 14 enriched proteins revealed that EC-Exo contained proteins involved in mediating endothelial function such as delta-like 4 (DLL4) and endothelial NOS (NOS3), whereas SC-Exo had proteins involved in mediating glial function such as apolipoprotein A-I (APOA1) and phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP). Collectively, the present study identifies differences in the cargo protein profiles of EC-Exo and SC-Exo, thus providing new molecular insights into their biological functions for the treatment of peripheral neuropathy.
PXD039213	37595034	Spic regulates one-carbon metabolism and histone methylation in ground-state pluripotency. 	Spic a specific marker of ground state pluripotency that regulates one carbon metabolism	2iL, BHMT, SAM, Spic, embryonic stem, epigenetic, ground state, one carbone metabolism	Understanding mechanisms of epigenetic regulation in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) is of fundamental importance for stem cell and developmental biology. Here, we identify Spic, a member of the ETS family of transcription factors (TFs), as a marker of ground state pluripotency. We show that Spic is rapidly induced in ground state ESCs and in response to extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) inhibition. We find that SPIC binds to enhancer elements and stabilizes NANOG binding to chromatin, particularly at genes involved in choline/one-carbon (1C) metabolism such as Bhmt, Bhmt2, and Dmgdh. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments revealed that Spic controls 1C metabolism and the flux of S-adenosyl methionine to S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine (SAM-to-SAH), thereby, modulating the levels of H3R17me2 and H3K4me3 histone marks in ESCs. Our findings highlight betaine-dependent 1C metabolism as a hallmark of ground state pluripotency primarily activated by SPIC. These findings underscore the role of uncharacterized auxiliary TFs in linking cellular metabolism to epigenetic regulation in ESCs.
PXD038540	37595039	XAF1 promotes anti-RNA virus immune responses by regulating chromatin accessibility. 	XAF1 promotes the innate immune response against RNA viruses by regulating chromatin accessibility	XAF1	A rapid induction of antiviral genes is critical for eliminating viruses, which requires activated transcription factors and opened chromatins to initiate transcription. However, it remains elusive how the accessibility of specific chromatin is regulated during infection. Here, we found that XAF1 functioned as an epigenetic regulator that liberated repressed chromatin after infection. Upon RNA virus infection, MAVS recruited XAF1 and TBK1. TBK1 phosphorylated XAF1 at serine-252 and promoted its nuclear translocation. XAF1 then interacted with TRIM28 with the guidance of IRF1 to the specific locus of antiviral genes. XAF1 de-SUMOylated TRIM28 through its PHD domain, which led to increased accessibility of the chromatin and robust induction of antiviral genes. XAF1-deficient mice were susceptible to RNA virus due to impaired induction of antiviral genes. Together, XAF1 acts as an epigenetic regulator that promotes the opening of chromatin and activation of antiviral immunity by targeting TRIM28 during infection.
PXD039019	37595040	FOXA1 O-GlcNAcylation-mediated transcriptional switch governs metastasis capacity in breast cancer. 	FOXA1 O-GlcNAcylation-mediated transcriptional switch governs metastasis capacity in breast cancer	FOXA1, O-GlcNAc	FOXA1, a transcription factor involved in epigenetic reprogramming, is crucial for breast cancer progression. However, the mechanisms by which FOXA1 achieves its oncogenic functions remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that the O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine modification (O-GlcNAcylation) of FOXA1 promotes breast cancer metastasis by orchestrating the transcription of numerous metastasis regulators. O-GlcNAcylation at Thr(432), Ser(441), and Ser(443) regulates the stability of FOXA1 and promotes its assembly with chromatin. O-GlcNAcylation shapes the FOXA1 interactome, especially triggering the recruitment of the transcriptional repressor methyl-CpG binding protein 2 and consequently stimulating FOXA1 chromatin-binding sites to switch to chromatin loci of adhesion-related genes, including EPB41L3 and COL9A2. Site-specific depletion of O-GlcNAcylation on FOXA1 affects the expression of various downstream genes and thus inhibits breast cancer proliferation and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Our data establish the importance of aberrant FOXA1 O-GlcNAcylation in breast cancer progression and indicate that targeting O-GlcNAcylation is a therapeutic strategy for metastatic breast cancer.
PXD042585	37595047	CD137 (4-1BB) requires physically associated cIAPs for signal transduction and antitumor effects. 	CD137 (4-1BB) requires physically associated cIAPs for signal transduction and antitumor effects	4-1BB, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), CD137, Human Proteome Project, Immunotherapy, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Smac Mimetic Compounds, cIAP1, cIAP2	CD137 (4-1BB) is a member of the TNFR family that mediates potent T cell costimulatory signals upon ligation by CD137L or agonist monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). CD137 agonists attain immunotherapeutic antitumor effects in cancer mouse models, and multiple agents of this kind are undergoing clinical trials. We show that cIAP1 and cIAP2 are physically associated with the CD137 signaling complex. Moreover, cIAPs are required for CD137 signaling toward the NF-kappaB and MAPK pathways and for costimulation of human and mouse T lymphocytes. Functional evidence was substantiated with SMAC mimetics that trigger cIAP degradation and by transfecting cIAP dominant-negative variants. Antitumor effects of agonist anti-CD137 mAbs are critically dependent on the integrity of cIAPs in cancer mouse models, and cIAPs are also required for signaling from CARs encompassing CD137's cytoplasmic tail.
PXD039885	37595185	Mouse Model of Fragile X Syndrome Analyzed by Quantitative Proteomics: A Comparison of Methods. 	A mouse model of Fragile X Syndrome analyzed by quantitative proteomics: a comparison of methods	BoxCar, DIA, Fragile X syndrome, Label-free, Method comparison, Quantitative proteomics, TMT labeling, complementary ion quantification, mouse brain proteomics	Multiple methods for quantitative proteomics are available for proteome profiling. It is unclear which methods are most useful in situations involving deep proteome profiling and the detection of subtle distortions in the proteome. Here, we compared the performance of seven different strategies in the analysis of a mouse model of Fragile X Syndrome, involving the knockout of the fmr1 gene that is the leading cause of autism spectrum disorder. Focusing on the cerebellum, we show that data-independent acquisition (DIA) and the tandem mass tag (TMT)-based real-time search method (RTS) generated the most informative profiles, generating 334 and 329 significantly altered proteins, respectively, although the latter still suffered from ratio compression. Label-free methods such as BoxCar and a conventional data-dependent acquisition were too noisy to generate a reliable profile, while TMT methods that do not invoke RTS showed a suppressed dynamic range. The TMT method using the TMTpro reagents together with complementary ion quantification (ProC) overcomes ratio compression, but current limitations in ion detection reduce sensitivity. Overall, both DIA and RTS uncovered known regulators of the syndrome and detected alterations in calcium signaling pathways that are consistent with calcium deregulation recently observed in imaging studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD039885.
PXD042478	37595802	Metabolic changes and propensity for inflammation, fibrosis, and cancer in livers of mice lacking lysosomal acid lipase. 	Pronounced metabolic alterations and susceptibility to inflammation, fibrosis, and cancer in livers from lysosomal acid lipase-deficient mice	LAL deficiency, Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL), liver, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)	Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) is the sole lysosomal enzyme responsible for the degradation of cholesteryl esters and triacylglycerols at acidic pH. Impaired LAL activity leads to LAL deficiency (LAL-D), a severe and fatal disease characterized by ectopic lysosomal lipid accumulation. Reduced LAL activity also contributes to the development and progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). To advance our understanding of LAL-related liver pathologies, we performed comprehensive proteomic profiling of livers from mice with systemic genetic loss of LAL (Lal-/-) and from mice with hepatocyte-specific LAL-D (hepLal-/-). Lal-/- mice exhibited drastic proteome alterations, including dysregulation of multiple proteins related to metabolism, inflammation, liver fibrosis, and cancer. Global loss of LAL activity impaired both acidic and neutral lipase activities and resulted in hepatic lipid accumulation, indicating a complete metabolic shift in Lal-/- livers. Hepatic inflammation and immune cell infiltration were evident, with numerous upregulated inflammation-related gene ontology biological process terms. In contrast, both young and mature hepLal-/- mice displayed only minor changes in the liver proteome, suggesting that loss of LAL solely in hepatocytes does not phenocopy metabolic alterations observed in mice globally lacking LAL. These findings provide valuable insights into the mechanisms underlying liver dysfunction in LAL-D and may help in understanding why decreased LAL activity contributes to NAFLD. Our study highlights the importance of LAL in maintaining liver homeostasis and demonstrates the drastic consequences of its global deficiency on the liver proteome and liver function.
PXD044118	37596266	Early-adulthood spike in protein translation drives aging via juvenile hormone/germline signaling. 	Early-adulthood spike in protein translation drives aging via juvenile hormone/germline signaling	Aging, Drosophila, LCMS2, Proteostasis	Protein translation (PT) declines with age in invertebrates, rodents, and humans. It has been assumed that elevated PT at young ages is beneficial to health and PT ends up dropping as a passive byproduct of aging. In Drosophila, we show that a transient elevation in PT during early-adulthood exerts long-lasting negative impacts on aging trajectories and proteostasis in later-life. Blocking the early-life PT elevation robustly improves life-/health-span and prevents age-related protein aggregation, whereas transiently inducing an early-life PT surge in long-lived fly strains abolishes their longevity/proteostasis benefits. The early-life PT elevation triggers proteostatic dysfunction, silences stress responses, and drives age-related functional decline via juvenile hormone-lipid transfer protein axis and germline signaling. Our findings suggest that PT is adaptively suppressed after early-adulthood, alleviating later-life proteostatic burden, slowing down age-related functional decline, and improving lifespan. Our work provides a theoretical framework for understanding how lifetime PT dynamics shape future aging trajectories.
PXD037178	37596276	Lenalidomide derivatives and proteolysis-targeting chimeras for controlling neosubstrate degradation. 	TMTpro-18plex analysis of MM1.S cells treated with PROTACs	PROTACs, TMTpro-18plex	Lenalidomide, an immunomodulatory drug (IMiD), is commonly used as a first-line therapy in many haematological cancers, such as multiple myeloma (MM) and 5q myelodysplastic syndromes (5q MDS), and it functions as a molecular glue for the protein degradation of neosubstrates by CRL4(CRBN). Proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) using IMiDs with a target protein binder also induce the degradation of target proteins. The targeted protein degradation (TPD) of neosubstrates is crucial for IMiD therapy. However, current IMiDs and IMiD-based PROTACs also break down neosubstrates involved in embryonic development and disease progression. Here, we show that 6-position modifications of lenalidomide are essential for controlling neosubstrate selectivity; 6-fluoro lenalidomide induced the selective degradation of IKZF1, IKZF3, and CK1alpha, which are involved in anti-haematological cancer activity, and showed stronger anti-proliferative effects on MM and 5q MDS cell lines than lenalidomide. PROTACs using these lenalidomide derivatives for BET proteins induce the selective degradation of BET proteins with the same neosubstrate selectivity. PROTACs also exert anti-proliferative effects in all examined cell lines. Thus, 6-position-modified lenalidomide is a key molecule for selective TPD using thalidomide derivatives and PROTACs.
PXD043201	37596282	Reactivated endogenous retroviruses promote protein aggregate spreading. 	Endogenous retroviruses promote prion-like spreading of proteopathic seeds	N2a, Prion, Retrovirus	Prion-like spreading of protein misfolding is a characteristic of neurodegenerative diseases, but the exact mechanisms of intercellular protein aggregate dissemination remain unresolved. Evidence accumulates that endogenous retroviruses, remnants of viral germline infections that are normally epigenetically silenced, become upregulated in neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and tauopathies. Here we uncover that activation of endogenous retroviruses affects prion-like spreading of proteopathic seeds. We show that upregulation of endogenous retroviruses drastically increases the dissemination of protein aggregates between cells in culture, a process that can be inhibited by targeting the viral envelope protein or viral protein processing. Human endogenous retrovirus envelopes of four different clades also elevate intercellular spreading of proteopathic seeds, including pathological Tau. Our data support a role of endogenous retroviruses in protein misfolding diseases and suggest that antiviral drugs could represent promising candidates for inhibiting protein aggregate spreading.
PXD043867	37596387	Biosynthesis of ansamitocin P-3 incurs stress on the producing strain Actinosynnema pretiosum at multiple targets. 	Chemical proteomics of AP-3 in Actinosynnema pretiosum	AP-3, Actinosynnema pretiosum, Chemical proteomics	Microbial bioactive natural products mediate ecologically beneficial functions to the producing strains, and have been widely used in clinic and agriculture with clearly defined targets and underlying mechanisms. However, the physiological effects of their biosynthesis on the producing strains remain largely unknown. The antitumor ansamitocin P-3 (AP-3), produced by Actinosynnema pretiosum ATCC 31280, was found to repress the growth of the producing strain at high concentration and target the FtsZ protein involved in cell division. Previous work suggested the presence of additional cryptic targets of AP-3 in ATCC 31280. Herein we use chemoproteomic approach with an AP-3-derived photoaffinity probe to profile the proteome-wide interactions of AP-3. AP-3 exhibits specific bindings to the seemingly unrelated deoxythymidine diphosphate glucose-4,6-dehydratase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, and flavin-dependent thymidylate synthase, which are involved in cell wall assembly, central carbon metabolism and nucleotide biosynthesis, respectively. AP-3 functions as a non-competitive inhibitor of all three above target proteins, generating physiological stress on the producing strain through interfering diverse metabolic pathways. Overexpression of these target proteins increases strain biomass and markedly boosts AP-3 titers. This finding demonstrates that identification and engineering of cryptic targets of bioactive natural products can lead to in-depth understanding of microbial physiology and improved product titers.
PXD031126	37596970	Seasonal shifts in community composition and proteome expression in a sulphur-cycling cyanobacterial mat. 	Middle Island Sinkhole Microbial Mat - Seasonality	diDO-IPTL, microbial mat, phototrophy, sinkhole, sulfur	Seasonal changes in light and physicochemical conditions have strong impacts on cyanobacteria, but how they affect community structure, metabolism, and biogeochemistry of cyanobacterial mats remains unclear. Light may be particularly influential for cyanobacterial mats exposed to sulphide by altering the balance of oxygenic photosynthesis and sulphide-driven anoxygenic photosynthesis. We studied temporal shifts in irradiance, water chemistry, and community structure and function of microbial mats in the Middle Island Sinkhole (MIS), where anoxic and sulphate-rich groundwater provides habitat for cyanobacteria that conduct both oxygenic and anoxygenic photosynthesis. Seasonal changes in light and groundwater chemistry were accompanied by shifts in bacterial community composition, with a succession of dominant cyanobacteria from Phormidium to Planktothrix, and an increase in diatoms, sulphur-oxidizing bacteria, and sulphate-reducing bacteria from summer to autumn. Differential abundance of cyanobacterial light-harvesting proteins likely reflects a physiological response of cyanobacteria to light level. Beggiatoa sulphur oxidation proteins were more abundant in autumn. Correlated abundances of taxa through time suggest interactions between sulphur oxidizers and sulphate reducers, sulphate reducers and heterotrophs, and cyanobacteria and heterotrophs. These results support the conclusion that seasonal change, including light availability, has a strong influence on community composition and biogeochemical cycling of sulphur and O2 in cyanobacterial mats.
PXD044650	37597109	The COP9 signalosome reduces neuroinflammation and attenuates ischemic neuronal stress in organotypic brain slice culture model. 	The COP9 signalosome reduces neuroinflammation and attenuates ischemic neuronal stress in organotypic brain slice culture model	CSN5, Constitutive photomorphogenesis 9 signalosome (CSN), JAB1, ischemic stroke, microglia, organoid	The constitutive photomorphogenesis 9 (COP9) signalosome (CSN) is a deNEDDylase controlling ubiquitination activity of cullin-RING-E3 ligases (CRLs) and thus the levels of key cellular proteins. While the CSN and its catalytic subunit CSN5 have been extensively studied in cancer, its role in inflammatory and neurological diseases is less understood. Following verification that CSN5 is expressed in mouse and human brain, here we studied the role of the CSN in neuroinflammation and ischemic neuronal damage employing models of relevant brain-resident cell types, an ex vivo organotypic brain slice culture model, and the CRL NEDDylation state-modifying drugs MLN4924 and CSN5i-3, which mimic and inhibit, respectively, CSN5 deNEDDylase activity. Untargeted mass spectrometry-based proteomics revealed that MLN4924 and CSN5i-3 substantially alter the microglial proteome, including inflammation-related proteins. Applying these drugs and mimicking microglial and endothelial inflammation as well as ischemic neuronal stress by TNF and oxygen-glucose-deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/RO) treatment, respectively, we could link CSN5/CSN-mediated cullin deNEDDylation to reduction of microglial inflammation, attenuated cerebral endothelial inflammation, improved barrier integrity, as well as protection from ischemic stress-induced neuronal cell death. Specifically, MLN4924 reduced phagocytic activity, motility, and inflammatory cytokine expression of microglial cells, and this was linked to inhibition of inflammation-induced NF-kappaB and Akt signaling. Inversely, Csn5 knockdown and CSN5i-3 increased NF-kappaB signaling. Moreover, MLN4924 abrogated TNF-induced NF-kappaB signaling in cerebral microvascular endothelial cells (hCMECs) and rescued hCMEC monolayers from OGD/RO-triggered barrier leakage, while CSN5i-3 exacerbated permeability. In an ex vivo organotypic brain slice model of ischemia/reperfusion stress, MLN4924 protected from neuronal death, while CSN5i-3 impaired neuronal survival. Neuronal damage was attributable to microglial activation and inflammatory cytokines, as indicated by microglial shape tracking and TNF-blocking experiments. Our results indicate a protective role of the CSN in neuroinflammation via brain-resident cell types involved in ischemic brain disease and implicate CSN activity-mimicking deNEDDylating drugs as potential therapeutics.
PXD038116	37598222	SCF(RMF) mediates degradation of the meiosis-specific recombinase DMC1. 	Arabidopsis DMC1 ubiquitination sites identification, LC-MS/MS	DMC1	Meiotic recombination requires the specific RecA homolog DMC1 recombinase to stabilize strand exchange intermediates in most eukaryotes. Normal DMC1 levels are crucial for its function, yet the regulatory mechanisms of DMC1 stability are unknown in any organism. Here, we show that the degradation of Arabidopsis DMC1 by the 26S proteasome depends on F-box proteins RMF1/2-mediated ubiquitination. Furthermore, RMF1/2 interact with the Skp1 ortholog ASK1 to form the ubiquitin ligase complex SCF(RMF1/2). Genetic analyses demonstrate that RMF1/2, ASK1 and DMC1 act in the same pathway downstream of SPO11-1 dependent meiotic DNA double strand break formation and that the proper removal of DMC1 is crucial for meiotic crossover formation. Moreover, six DMC1 lysine residues were identified as important for its ubiquitination but not its interaction with RMF1/2. Our results reveal mechanistic insights into how the stability of a key meiotic recombinase that is broadly conserved in eukaryotes is regulated.
PXD035098	37599176	Data-independent acquisition-based global phosphoproteomics reveal the diverse roles of casein kinase 1 in plant development. 	Data-Independent Acquisition-Based global phosphoproteomics reveals diverse roles of AELs (Arabidopsis EL1-like) Casein kinase 1 in plant development	AEL, Phosphoproteinomics	Casein kinase 1 (CK1) is serine/threonine protein kinase highly conserved among eukaryotes, and regulates multiple developmental and signaling events through phosphorylation of target proteins. Arabidopsis early flowering 1 (EL1)-like (AELs) are plant-specific CK1s with varied functions, but identification and validation of their substrates is a major bottleneck in elucidating their physiological roles. Here, we conducted a quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis in data-independent acquisition mode to systematically identify CK1 substrates. We extracted proteins from seedlings overexpressing individual AEL genes (AEL1/2/3/4-OE) or lacking AEL function (all ael single mutants and two triple mutants) to identify the high-confidence phosphopeptides with significantly altered abundance compared to wild-type Col-0. Among these, we selected 3985 phosphopeptides with higher abundance in AEL-OE lines or lower abundance in ael mutants compared with Col-0 as AEL-upregulated phosphopeptides, and defined 1032 phosphoproteins. Eight CK1s substrate motifs were enriched among AEL-upregulated phosphopeptides and verified, which allowed us to predict additional candidate substrates and functions of CK1s. We functionally characterized a newly identified substrate C3H17, a CCCH-type zinc finger transcription factor, through biochemical and genetic analyses, revealing a role for AEL-promoted C3H17 protein stability and transactivation activity in regulating embryogenesis. As CK1s are highly conserved across eukaryotes, we searched the rice, mouse, and human protein databases using newly identified CK1 substrate motifs, yielding many more candidate substrates than currently known, largely expanding our understanding of the common and distinct functions exerted by CK1s in Arabidopsis and humans, facilitating future mechanistic studies of CK1-mediated phosphorylation in different species.
PXD043937	37599832	Hypermethylation of RNF125 promotes autophagy-induced oxidative stress in asthma by increasing HMGB1 stability. 	RNF125 interacting protein detected by IP-Mass	RNF125, immunoprecipitation	Asthma is a global chronic airway disease. The expression and role of RNF125, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in asthma remain uncertain. In this study, we revealed that RNF125 was downregulated in the bronchial epithelium of mice and patients with asthma. Rnf125 hypermethylation was responsible for the low expression of RNF125 in primary airway epithelial cells of mice treated with OVA. Moreover, we demonstrated that RNF125 could attenuate autophagy, oxidative stress, and protect epithelial barrier in vivo and in vitro. Additionally, we identified HMGB1 as a substrate of RNF125, which interacted with the HMG B-box domain of HMGB1 and induced degradation via the ubiquitin proteasome system, reducing autophagy and oxidative stress. Overall, our findings elucidated that hypermethylation of Rnf125 reduced its expression, which promoted autophagy-induced oxidative stress in asthma by increasing HMGB1 stability. These findings offer a theoretical and experimental basis for the pathogenesis of asthma.
PXD044096	37601105	Integrated transcriptomics and proteomics assay identifies the role of FCGR1A in maintaining sperm fertilization capacity during semen cryopreservation in sheep. 	Proteomic data on cryopreserved sperm from sheep	cryopreservation, sheep, sperm	Semen cryopreservation is a promising technology employed in preserving high-quality varieties in animal husbandry and is also widely applied in the human sperm bank. However, the compromised qualities, such as decreased sperm motility, damaged membrane structure, and reduced fertilization competency, have significantly hampered the efficient application of this technique. Therefore, it is imperative to depict various molecular changes found in cryopreserved sperm and identify the regulatory network in response to the cryopreservation stress. In this study, semen was collected from three Chinese Merino rams and divided into untreated (fresh semen, FS) and programmed freezing (programmed freezing semen, PS) groups. After measuring different quality parameters, the ultra-low RNA-seq and tandem mass tag-based (TMT) proteome were conducted in both the groups. The results indicated that the motility (82.63% +/- 3.55% vs. 34.10% +/- 2.90%, p < 0.05) and viability (89.46% +/- 2.53% vs. 44.78% +/- 2.29%, p < 0.05) of the sperm in the FS group were significantly higher compared to those in the PS group. In addition, 45 upregulated and 291 downregulated genes, as well as 30 upregulated and 48 downregulated proteins, were found in transcriptomics and proteomics data separately. Moreover, three integrated methods, namely, functional annotation and enrichment analysis, Pearson's correlation analysis, and two-way orthogonal partial least squares (O2PLS) analysis, were used for further analysis. The results suggested that various differentially expressed genes and proteins (DEGs and DEPs) were mainly enriched in leishmaniasis and hematopoietic cell lineage, and Fc gamma receptor Ia (FCGR1A) was significantly downregulated in cryopreserved sperm both at mRNA and protein levels in comparison with the fresh counterpart. In addition, top five genes (FCGR1A, HCK, SLX4, ITGA3, and BET1) and 22 proteins could form a distinct network in which genes and proteins were significantly correlated (p < 0.05). Interestingly, FCGR1A also appeared in the top 25 correlation list based on O2PLS analysis. Hence, FCGR1A was selected as the most potential differentially expressed candidate for screening by the three integrated multi-omics analysis methods. In addition, Pearson's correlation analysis indicated that the expression level of FCGR1A was positively correlated with sperm motility and viability. A subsequent experiment was conducted to identify the biological role of FCGR1A in sperm function. The results showed that both the sperm viability (fresh group: 87.65% +/- 4.17% vs. 75.8% +/- 1.15%, cryopreserved group: 48.15% +/- 0.63% vs. 42.45% +/- 2.61%, p < 0.05) and motility (fresh group: 83.27% +/- 4.15% vs. 70.41% +/- 1.07%, cryopreserved group: 45.31% +/- 3.28% vs. 35.13% +/- 2.82%, p < 0.05) were significantly reduced in fresh and frozen sperm when FCGR1A was blocked. Moreover, the cleavage rate of embryos fertilized by FCGR1A-blocked sperm was noted to be significantly lower in both fresh (95.28% +/- 1.16% vs. 90.44% +/- 1.56%, p < 0.05) and frozen groups (89.8% +/- 1.50% vs. 82.53% +/- 1.53%, p < 0.05). In conclusion, our results revealed that the downregulated membrane protein FCGR1A can potentially contribute to the reduced sperm fertility competency in the cryopreserved sheep sperm.
PXD033298	37601921	Organic Matrix Derived from Host-Microbe Interplay Contributes to Pathological Renal Biomineralization. 	Human Matrix Kidney Stones Proteome	kidney stone	Matrix stones are a rare form of kidney stones. They feature a high percentage of hydrogel-like organic matter, and their formation is closely associated with urinary tract infections. Herein, comprehensive materials and biochemical approaches were taken to map the organic-inorganic interface and gather insights into the host-microbe interplay in pathological renal biomineralization. Surgically extracted soft and slimy matrix stones were examined using micro-X-ray computed tomography and various microspectroscopy techniques. Higher-mineral-density laminae were positive for calcium-bound Alizarin red. Lower-mineral-density laminae revealed periodic acid-Schiff-positive organic filamentous networks of varied thickness. These organic filamentous networks, which featured a high polysaccharide content, were enriched with zinc, carbon, and sulfur elements. Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) along with immune response-related proteins, including calprotectin, myeloperoxidase, CD63, and CD86, also were identified in the filamentous networks. Expressions of NETs and upregulation of polysaccharide-rich mucin secretion are proposed as a part of the host immune defense to "trap" pathogens. These host-microbe derived organic matrices can facilitate heterogeneous nucleation and precipitation of inorganic particulates, resulting in macroscale aggregates known as "matrix stones". These insights into the plausible aggregation of constituents through host-microbe interplay underscore the unique "double-edged sword" effect of the host immune response to pathogens and the resulting renal biominerals.
PXD036950	37603756	Hypoxia induces a glycolytic complex in intestinal epithelial cells independent of HIF-1-driven glycolytic gene expression. 	Hypoxia induces a glycolytic complex in intestinal epithelial cells independent of HIF-1-driven glycolytic gene expression Dataset 1	HIF, Hypoxia, glucose metabolism, glycolysis, metabolism	The metabolic adaptation of eukaryotic cells to hypoxia involves increasing dependence upon glycolytic adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, an event with consequences for cellular bioenergetics and cell fate. This response is regulated at the transcriptional level by the hypoxia-inducible factor-1(HIF-1)-dependent transcriptional upregulation of glycolytic enzymes (GEs) and glucose transporters. However, this transcriptional upregulation alone is unlikely to account fully for the levels of glycolytic ATP produced during hypoxia. Here, we investigated additional mechanisms regulating glycolysis in hypoxia. We observed that intestinal epithelial cells treated with inhibitors of transcription or translation and human platelets (which lack nuclei and the capacity for canonical transcriptional activity) maintained the capacity for hypoxia-induced glycolysis, a finding which suggests the involvement of a nontranscriptional component to the hypoxia-induced metabolic switch to a highly glycolytic phenotype. In our investigations into potential nontranscriptional mechanisms for glycolytic induction, we identified a hypoxia-sensitive formation of complexes comprising GEs and glucose transporters in intestinal epithelial cells. Surprisingly, the formation of such glycolytic complexes occurs independent of HIF-1-driven transcription. Finally, we provide evidence for the presence of HIF-1alpha in cytosolic fractions of hypoxic cells which physically interacts with the glucose transporter GLUT1 and the GEs in a hypoxia-sensitive manner. In conclusion, we provide insights into the nontranscriptional regulation of hypoxia-induced glycolysis in intestinal epithelial cells.
PXD037073	37604832	CD36 mediates SARS-CoV-2-envelope-protein-induced platelet activation and thrombosis. 	Analysis of protein interaction between human platelets and SARS-CoV-2 envelope protein	SARS-CoV-2 envelope protein, platelets	Aberrant coagulation and thrombosis are associated with severe COVID-19 post-SARS-CoV-2 infection, yet the underlying mechanism remains obscure. Here we show that serum levels of SARS-CoV-2 envelope (E) protein are associated with coagulation disorders of COVID-19 patients, and intravenous administration of the E protein is able to potentiate thrombosis in mice. Through protein pull-down and mass spectrometry, we find that CD36, a transmembrane glycoprotein, directly binds with E protein and mediates hyperactivation of human and mouse platelets through the p38 MAPK-NF-kappaB signaling pathway. Conversely, the pharmacological blockade of CD36 or p38 notably attenuates human platelet activation induced by the E protein. Similarly, the genetic deficiency of CD36, as well as the pharmacological inhibition of p38 in mice, significantly diminishes E protein-induced platelet activation and thrombotic events. Together, our study reveals a critical role for the CD36-p38 axis in E protein-induced platelet hyperactivity, which could serve as an actionable target for developing therapies against aberrant thrombotic events related to the severity and mortality of COVID-19.
PXD042152	37605006	Lysine methylation of PPP1CA by the methyltransferase SUV39H2 disrupts TFEB-dependent autophagy and promotes intervertebral disc degeneration. 	human nucleus pulposus cell LC-MS/MS	nucleus pulposus cell	Impaired transcription factor EB (TFEB) function and deficient autophagy activity have been shown to aggravate intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IDD), yet the underlying mechanisms remain less clear. Protein posttranslational modifications (PTMs) are critical for determining TFEB trafficking and transcriptional activity. Here, we demonstrate that TFEB activity is controlled by protein methylation in degenerated nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs), even though TFEB itself is incapable of undergoing methylation. Specifically, protein phosphatase 1 catalytic subunit alpha (PPP1CA), newly identified to dephosphorylate TFEB, contains a K141 mono-methylated site. In degenerated NPCs, increased K141-methylation of PPP1CA disrupts its interaction with TEFB and subsequently blocks TEFB dephosphorylation and nuclear translocation, which eventually leads to autophagy deficiency and NPC senescence. In addition, we found that the PPP1CA-mediated targeting of TFEB is facilitated by the protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 9B (PPP1R9B), which binds with PPP1CA and is also manipulated by K141 methylation. Further proteomic analysis revealed that the protein lysine methyltransferase suppressor of variegation 3-9 homologue 2 (SUV39H2) is responsible for the K141 mono-methylation of PPP1CA. Targeting SUV39H2 effectively mitigates NPC senescence and IDD progression, providing a potential therapeutic strategy for IDD intervention.
PXD038140	37606040	Proteogenomic identification of an immunogenic antigen derived from human endogenous retrovirus in renal cell carcinoma. 	HLA class I ligandome of renal cancer tissues for hERV antigen identification	HLA ligandome analysis, proteogenomics	CD8+ T cells can recognize tumor antigens displayed by HLA class I molecules and eliminate tumor cells. Despite their low tumor mutation burden, immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) is often beneficial in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Here, using a proteogenomic approach, we directly and comprehensively explored the HLA class I-presenting peptidome of RCC tissues and demonstrated that the immunopeptidomes contain a small subset of peptides derived from human endogenous retroviruses (hERV). A comparison between tumor and normal kidney tissues revealed tumor-associated hERV antigens, one of which was immunogenic and recognized by host tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). Stimulation with the hERV antigen induced reactive CD8+ T cells in healthy donor-derived (HD-derived) peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). These results highlight the presence of antitumor CD8+ T cell surveillance against hERV3895 antigens, suggesting their clinical applications in patients with RCC.
PXD042886	37607916	Molecular features and clinical implications of the heterogeneity in Chinese patients with HER2-low breast cancer. 	Proteome of Chinese Breast Cancers (FUSCC-Shao Lab)	Breast Cancers, Chinese, TMT	The molecular heterogeneity and distinct features of HER2-low breast cancers, particularly in the Chinese population, are not well understood, limiting its precise management in the era of antibody-drug conjugates. To address this issue, we established a cohort of 434 Chinese patients with HER2-low breast cancer (433 female and one male) and integrated genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic profiling data. In this cohort, HER2-low tumors are more distinguished from HER2-0 tumors in the hormone receptor-negative subgroup. Within HER2-low tumors, significant interpatient heterogeneity also exists in the hormone receptor-negative subgroup: basal-like tumors resemble HER2-0 disease, and non-basal-like HER2-low tumors mimic HER2-positive disease. These non-basal-like HER2-low tumors are enriched in the HER2-enriched subtype and the luminal androgen receptor subtype and feature PIK3CA mutation, FGFR4/PTK6/ERBB4 overexpression and lipid metabolism activation. Among hormone receptor-positive tumors, HER2-low tumors show less loss/deletion in 17q peaks than HER2-0 tumors. In this work, we reveal the heterogeneity of HER2-low breast cancers and emphasize the need for more precise stratification regarding hormone receptor status and molecular subtype.
PXD039410	37611092	A MYCN-independent mechanism mediating secretome reprogramming and metastasis in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma. 	A MYCN-independent mechanism mediating secretome reprogramming and metastasis in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma	GREB1, MYCN, MYO1B, neuroblastoma, secretome	MYCN amplification (MNA) is a defining feature of high-risk neuroblastoma (NB) and predicts poor prognosis. However, whether genes within or in close proximity to the MYCN amplicon also contribute to MNA(+) NB remains poorly understood. Here, we identify that GREB1, a transcription factor encoding gene neighboring the MYCN locus, is frequently coexpressed with MYCN and promotes cell survival in MNA(+) NB. GREB1 controls gene expression independently of MYCN, among which we uncover myosin 1B (MYO1B) as being highly expressed in MNA(+) NB and, using a chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) model, as a crucial regulator of invasion and metastasis. Global secretome and proteome profiling further delineates MYO1B in regulating secretome reprogramming in MNA(+) NB cells, and the cytokine MIF as an important pro-invasive and pro-metastatic mediator of MYO1B activity. Together, we have identified a putative GREB1-MYO1B-MIF axis as an unconventional mechanism promoting aggressive behavior in MNA(+) NB and independently of MYCN.
PXD047685	37611173	Global Analysis of Endogenously Intact S-Acylated Peptides Reveals Localization Differentiation of Heterogeneous Lipid Chains in Mammalian Cells. 	Analysis of intact S-acylated peptides by ssMLCC	timsPro	S-acylation is a widespread lipidation form in eukaryotes in which various fatty acids can be covalently attached to specific cysteine residues. However, due to the low reactivity of the lipid moieties and lack of specific antibodies, purification of intact S-acylated peptides remains challenging. Here, we developed a pretreatment method for direct separation and global analysis of endogenously intact S-acylated peptides by nanographite fluoride-based solid-phase extraction (nGF-SPE), together with the investigation and optimization of the enrichment procedure as well as the LC-MS/MS analysis process. Consequently, we performed the first global profiling of endogenously intact S-acylated peptides, with 701 S-palmitoylated peptides from HeLa cell lysates in a restricted search. Furthermore, coupling the nGF-SPE method with open search mode, altogether 1119 intact S-acylated peptides were identified with the attached palmitate, palmitoleate, myristate, and octanoate chain, respectively, providing a global insight into the endogenously heterogeneous modification state. Notably, we found and validated that S-palmitoleoylation (C16:1) provided less affinity toward lipid rafts compared with S-palmitoylation (C16:0). This study developed the first straightforward way to characterize endogenously intact S-acylated peptides on a proteome-wide scale, providing the modified residues together with their attached lipid moieties simultaneously, which paves the way for further understanding of protein S-acylation.
PXD044093	37611586	Cell-type-specific regulation of APOE and CLU levels in human neurons by the Alzheimer's disease risk gene SORL1. 	SORL1 regulates APOE and CLU levels in human neurons	Alzheimers, TMT	SORL1 is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) through genetic studies. To interrogate the roles of SORL1 in human brain cells, SORL1-null induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) were differentiated to neuron, astrocyte, microglial, and endothelial cell fates. Loss of SORL1 leads to alterations in both overlapping and distinct pathways across cell types, with the greatest effects in neurons and astrocytes. SORL1 loss induces a neuron-specific reduction in apolipoprotein E (APOE) and clusterin (CLU) and altered lipid profiles. Analyses of iPSCs derived from a large cohort reveal a neuron-specific association between SORL1, APOE, and CLU levels, a finding validated in postmortem brain. Enhancement of retromer-mediated trafficking rescues tau phenotypes observed in SORL1-null neurons but does not rescue APOE levels. Pathway analyses implicate transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta)/SMAD signaling in SORL1 function, and modulating SMAD signaling in neurons alters APOE RNA levels in a SORL1-dependent manner. Taken together, these data provide a mechanistic link between strong genetic risk factors for AD.
PXD037965	37612136	Histidine N1-position-specific methyltransferase CARNMT1 targets C3H zinc finger proteins and modulates RNA metabolism. 	ProSeAM SILAC MS screening for CARNMT1 substrates	CARNMT1, ProSeAM	Histidine (His) residues are methylated in various proteins, but their roles and regulation mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we show that carnosine N-methyltransferase 1 (CARNMT1), a known His methyltransferase of dipeptide carnosine (betaAla-His), is a major His N1-position-specific methyltransferase. We found that 52 His sites in 20 proteins underwent CARNMT1-mediated methylation. The consensus methylation site for CARNMT1 was identified as Cx(F/Y)xH, a C3H zinc finger (C3H ZF) motif. CARNMT1-deficient and catalytically inactive mutant mice showed embryonic lethality. Among the CARNMT1 target C3H ZF proteins, RNA degradation mediated by Roquin and tristetraprolin (TTP) was affected by CARNMT1 and its enzymatic activity. Furthermore, the recognition of the 3' splice site of the CARNMT1 target C3H ZF protein U2AF1 was perturbed, and pre-mRNA alternative splicing (AS) was affected by CARNMT1 deficiency. These findings indicate that CARNMT1-mediated protein His methylation, which is essential for embryogenesis, plays roles in diverse aspects of RNA metabolism by targeting C3H ZF-type RNA-binding proteins and modulating their functions, including pre-mRNA AS and mRNA degradation regulation.
PXD043968	37612428	Breeding from 1891 to 2010 did not increase the content of amylase/trypsin-inhibitors in wheat (Triticum aestivum). 	Breeding from 1891 to 2010 did not increase the content of amylase/trypsin-inhibitors in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.)	Amylase/trypsin-inhibitors (ATIs), Heritability, non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS), non-celiac wheat sensitivity (NCWS), stable isotope dilution assay (SIDA), wheat allergy	The prevalence of hypersensitivities towards wheat has increased in the last decades. Apart from celiac disease these include allergic and other inflammatory reactions summarized under the term non-celiac wheat sensitivity. One suspected trigger is the family of amylase/trypsin-inhibitors (ATIs), non-gluten proteins that are prominent wheat allergens and that activate the toll-like receptor 4 on intestinal immune cells to promote intestinal and extra-intestinal inflammation. We therefore quantified 13 ATIs in 60 German hexaploid winter wheat cultivars originating from 1891 to 2010 and harvested in three years by targeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry combined with stable isotope dilution assay using specific marker peptides as internal standards. The total ATI content and that of the two major ATIs 0.19 and CM3 did not change from old cultivars (first registered from 1891 to 1950) to modern cultivars (1951-2010). There were also no significant changes in ATI distribution.
PXD034842	37612737	ClpP protease modulates bacterial growth, stress response, and bacterial virulence in Brucella abortus. 	ClpP protease modulates bacterial growth, stress response and bacterial virulence in Brucella abortus	Brucella, ClpP protease, iTRAQ analysis, virulence	The process of intracellular proteolysis through ATP-dependent proteases is a biologically conserved phenomenon. The stress responses and bacterial virulence of various pathogenic bacteria are associated with the ATP-dependent Clp protease. In this study, a Brucella abortus 2308 strain, DeltaclpP, was constructed to characterize the function of ClpP peptidase. The growth of the DeltaclpP mutant strain was significantly impaired in the TSB medium. The results showed that the DeltaclpP mutant was sensitive to acidic pH stress, oxidative stress, high temperature, detergents, high osmotic environment, and iron deficient environment. Additionally, the deletion of clpP significantly affected Brucella virulence in macrophage and mouse infection models. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of the DeltaclpP strain showed that 1965 genes were significantly affected at the mRNA and/or protein levels. The RNA-seq analysis indicated that the DeltaclpP strain exhibited distinct gene expression patterns related to energy production and conversion, cell wall/membrane/envelope biogenesis, carbohydrate transport, and metabolism. The iTRAQ analysis revealed that the differentially expressed proteins primarily participated in amino acid transport and metabolism, energy production and conversion, and secondary metabolites biosynthesis, transport and catabolism. This study provided insights into the preliminary molecular mechanism between Clp protease to bacterial growth, stress response, and bacterial virulence in Brucella strains.
PXD037680	37620345	RNAPII-dependent ATM signaling at collisions with replication forks. 	pSer2-RNAPII interaction partners in MEF cells (label free)	AP-MS, MEF, pSer2-RNAPII	Deregulation of RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII) by oncogenic signaling leads to collisions of RNAPII with DNA synthesis machinery (transcription-replication conflicts, TRCs). TRCs can result in DNA damage and are thought to underlie genomic instability in tumor cells. Here we provide evidence that elongating RNAPII nucleates activation of the ATM kinase at TRCs to stimulate DNA repair. We show the ATPase WRNIP1 associates with RNAPII and limits ATM activation during unperturbed cell cycle. WRNIP1 binding to elongating RNAPII requires catalytic activity of the ubiquitin ligase HUWE1. Mutation of HUWE1 induces TRCs, promotes WRNIP1 dissociation from RNAPII and binding to the replisome, stimulating ATM recruitment and activation at RNAPII. TRCs and translocation of WRNIP1 are rapidly induced in response to hydroxyurea treatment to activate ATM and facilitate subsequent DNA repair. We propose that TRCs can provide a controlled mechanism for stalling of replication forks and ATM activation, instrumental in cellular response to replicative stress.
PXD020080	37620362	Nuclear localization of TET2 requires beta-catenin activation and correlates with favourable prognosis in colorectal cancer. 	TET2 binding protein of human colon cancer cell SW480-SW620	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), TET2 colon cancer SW480-SW620	Mutation-induced malfunction of ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 2 (TET2) is widely reported in haematological malignancies. However, the role of TET2 in solid cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC), is unclear. Here, we found that TET2 malfunction in CRC is mostly due to decreased nuclear localization and that nuclear localization of TET2 is correlated with better survival of patients. To explore the underlying mechanisms, 14 immortalized solid tumour cell lines and 12 primary CRC cell lines were used. TET2 was mostly detected in the nucleus, and it induced significant DNA demethylation and suppressed cell growth by demethylating RORA and SPARC in cell lines like SW480. While in cell lines like SW620, TET2 was observed in the cytosol and did not affect DNA methylation or cell growth. Further examination with immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry illustrated that beta-catenin activation was indispensable for the nuclear localization and tumour suppression effects of TET2. In addition, the beta-catenin pathway activator IM12 and the TET2 activator vitamin C were used simultaneously to enhance the effects of TET2 under low-expression conditions, and synergistic inhibitory effects on the growth of cancer were observed both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, these data suggest that beta-catenin-mediated nuclear localization of TET2 is an important therapeutic target for solid tumours.
PXD023146	37620393	The ABL-MYC axis controls WIPI1-enhanced autophagy in lifespan extension. 	SILAC phosphoproteome analysis upon transient Abl1/2 or DDR1 knockdown in human U-2 OS cells	ABL1, ABL2, DDR1, SILAC	Human WIPI beta-propellers function as PI3P effectors in autophagy, with WIPI4 and WIPI3 being able to link autophagy control by AMPK and TORC1 to the formation of autophagosomes. WIPI1, instead, assists WIPI2 in efficiently recruiting the ATG16L1 complex at the nascent autophagosome, which in turn promotes lipidation of LC3/GABARAP and autophagosome maturation. However, the specific role of WIPI1 and its regulation are unknown. Here, we discovered the ABL-ERK-MYC signalling axis controlling WIPI1. As a result of this signalling, MYC binds to the WIPI1 promoter and represses WIPI1 gene expression. When ABL-ERK-MYC signalling is counteracted, increased WIPI1 gene expression enhances the formation of autophagic membranes capable of migrating through tunnelling nanotubes to neighbouring cells with low autophagic activity. ABL-regulated WIPI1 function is relevant to lifespan control, as ABL deficiency in C. elegans increased gene expression of the WIPI1 orthologue ATG-18 and prolonged lifespan in a manner dependent on ATG-18. We propose that WIPI1 acts as an enhancer of autophagy that is physiologically relevant for regulating the level of autophagic activity over the lifespan.
PXD041029	37620794	Desmocollin-1 is associated with pro-metastatic phenotype of luminal A breast cancer cells and is modulated by parthenolide. 	Desmocollin-1 is associated with pro-metastatic phenotype of luminal A breast cancer cells and is modulated by parthenolide	DIA, DSC1, breast cancer, metastasis, pulldown	BACKGROUND: Desmocollin-1 (DSC1) is a desmosomal transmembrane glycoprotein that maintains cell-to-cell adhesion. DSC1 was previously associated with lymph node metastasis of luminal A breast tumors and was found to increase migration and invasion of MCF7 cells in vitro. Therefore, we focused on DSC1 role in cellular and molecular mechanisms in luminal A breast cancer and its possible therapeutic modulation. METHODS: Western blotting was used to select potential inhibitor decreasing DSC1 protein level in MCF7 cell line. Using atomic force microscopy we evaluated effect of DSC1 overexpression and modulation on cell morphology. The LC-MS/MS analysis of total proteome on Orbitrap Lumos and RNA-Seq analysis of total transcriptome on Illumina NextSeq 500 were performed to study the molecular mechanisms associated with DSC1. Pull-down analysis with LC-MS/MS detection was carried out to uncover DSC1 protein interactome in MCF7 cells. RESULTS: Analysis of DSC1 protein levels in response to selected inhibitors displays significant DSC1 downregulation (p-value <= 0.01) in MCF7 cells treated with NF-kappaB inhibitor parthenolide. Analysis of mechanic cell properties in response to DSC1 overexpression and parthenolide treatment using atomic force microscopy reveals that DSC1 overexpression reduces height of MCF7 cells and conversely, parthenolide decreases cell stiffness of MCF7 cells overexpressing DSC1. The LC-MS/MS total proteome analysis in data-independent acquisition mode shows a strong connection between DSC1 overexpression and increased levels of proteins LACRT and IGFBP5, increased expression of IGFBP5 is confirmed by RNA-Seq. Pathway analysis of proteomics data uncovers enrichment of proliferative MCM_BIOCARTA pathway including CDK2 and MCM2-7 after DSC1 overexpression. Parthenolide decreases expression of LACRT, IGFBP5 and MCM_BIOCARTA pathway specifically in DSC1 overexpressing cells. Pull-down assay identifies DSC1 interactions with cadherin family proteins including DSG2, CDH1, CDH3 and tyrosine kinase receptors HER2 and HER3; parthenolide modulates DSC1-HER3 interaction. CONCLUSIONS: Our systems biology data indicate that DSC1 is connected to mechanisms of cell cycle regulation in luminal A breast cancer cells, and can be effectively modulated by parthenolide.
PXD044502	37621186	Global proteomics reveals insulin abundance as a marker of human islet homeostasis alterations. 	Effect of transplantation on human islets	Human islets, transplant	AIM: The variation in quality between the human islet samples represents a major problem for research, especially when used as control material. The assays assessing the quality of human islets used in research are non-standardized and limited, with many important parameters not being consistently assessed. High-throughput studies aimed at characterizing the diversity and segregation markers among apparently functionally healthy islet preps are thus a requirement. Here, we designed a pilot study to comprehensively identify the diversity of global proteome signatures and the deviation from normal homeostasis in randomly selected human-isolated islet samples. METHODS: By using Tandem Mass Tag 16-plex proteomics, we focused on the recurrently observed disparity in the detected insulin abundance between the samples, used it as a segregating parameter, and analyzed the correlated changes in the proteome signature and homeostasis by pathway analysis. RESULTS: In this pilot study, we showed that insulin protein abundance is a predictor of human islet homeostasis and quality. This parameter is independent of other quality predictors within their acceptable range, thus being able to further stratify islets samples of apparent good quality. Human islets with low amounts of insulin displayed changes in their metabolic and signaling profile, especially in regard to energy homeostasis and cell identity maintenance. We further showed that xenotransplantation into diabetic hosts is not expected to improve the pre-transplantation signature, as it has a negative effect on energy balance, antioxidant activity, and islet cell identity. CONCLUSIONS: Insulin protein abundance predicts significant changes in human islet homeostasis among random samples of apparently good quality.
PXD040990	37624509	Proteomics Analysis of Polyphyllin D-Treated Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Cells Reveal the Anticancer Mechanisms of Polyphyllin D. 	Proteomics analysis of Polyphyllin D-treated triple-negative breast cancer cells reveal the anticancer mechanisms of Polyphyllin D	Nodal modulator 2/3 (NOMO2/3), Oxidative phosphorylation pathway, Polyphyllin D (PD), Spliceosome, Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC)	Polyphyllin D (PD), one of the important steroid saponins in traditional medicinal herb Paris polyphylla, has been demonstrated to have anticancer activity both in vitro and in vivo. However, the mechanisms through which PD exerts its anticancer effects in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remain unclear. Our study was presented to evaluate the anticancer effect and the potential mechanisms of PD in two TNBC cell lines, BT-549 and MDA-MB-231. Through comprehensively comparing the liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) data of PD-treated and untreated BT-549 and MDA-MB-231 cells, we found that PD could induce apoptosis of TNBC cells by activating oxidative phosphorylation pathway in BT-549 cells, as well as inhibiting spliceosome function alteration in MDA-MB-231 cells. These results suggested that the mechanisms underlying the pro-apoptotic effect of PD on TNBC may be cell type-specificity-dependent. Moreover, we found that nodal modulator 2/3 (NOMO2/3) were downregulated both in PD-treated BT-549 and MDA-MB-231 cells, suggesting that NOMO2/3 may be the potential target of PD. Verification experiments revealed that PD deceased NOMO2/3 expression at protein level, rather than mRNA level. Whether NOMO2/3 are the upstream modulators of oxidative phosphorylation pathway and spliceosome needs further validation. In conclusion, a comprehensive proteomics study was performed on PD-treated or untreated TNBC cells, revealing the anticancer mechanisms of PD.
PXD040536	37624673	A Strategy to Characterize the Global Landscape of Histone Post-Translational Modifications Within Tissues of Nonmodel Organisms. 	A strategy to characterize the global histone PTM landscape within tissues of non-model organisms	Mozambique tilapia, epigenetics, histone post-translational modifications, tissue specificity	Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) are epigenetic marks that play a critical role in the expression and maintenance of DNA, but they remain largely uninvestigated in nonmodel organisms due to technical challenges. To begin alleviating this issue, we developed a workflow for histone PTM analysis in Mozambique tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus), being a widespread and environmentally hardy fish, using mass spectrometry methods. By incorporating multiple protein digestion methods into the preparation of each sample, we reliably quantified 214 biologically relevant histone PTMs. All of these histone PTMs, collectively referred to as the global histone PTM landscape, were characterized in the gills, kidney, and testes of this fish. By comparing the global histone PTM landscape between the three tissues, we found that 91.59% of histone PTMs were tissue-dependent. The workflow and tools for histone PTM analysis described in this study are now publicly available and enable comprehensive investigation into the influence of environmental stress on histone PTMs in nonmodel organisms. Given the functionality and flexibility of histone PTMs, we anticipate that the study of histone PTMs in ecologically relevant contexts will provide ground-breaking insights into comparative physiology and evolution.
PXD031228	37624701	Differential systemic decellularization in vivo to study molecular changes in each vasculature layer in murine models of disease. 	Vascular bed systematic profiling unravels endothelial and glycocalyx dysregulations in experimental high salt hypertension	cardiovascular disease, endothelial cell dysfunction, glycocalyx, high salt diet, hypertension, proteomics 	Vascular dysfunction underlies the onset and progression of many life-threatening diseases, highlighting the need for improved understanding of its molecular basis. Here, we present differential systemic decellularization in vivo (DISDIVO), a protocol that enables systemic and independent study of the molecular changes in each vasculature layer in murine models of disease. We describe steps for anesthesia, perfusion surgery, and exsanguination. We then detail detachment and collection of glycocalyx and decellularization and collection of both endothelial and smooth muscle cells. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Serra et al., Gallart-Palau et al., and Vinaiphat et al.(1)(,)(2)(,)(3).
PXD042188	37626301	Glomerular proteomic profiling reveals early differences between preexisting and de novo type 2 diabetes in human renal allografts. 	Post-transplant diabetes mellitus after kidney transplantation	PTDM. T2DM, kidney, tranplantation	BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus (DM), either preexisting or developing after transplantation, remains a crucial clinical problem in kidney transplantation. To obtain insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying PTDM development and early glomerular damage before the development of histologically visible diabetic kidney disease, we comparatively analysed the proteome of histologically normal glomeruli from patients with PTDM and normoglycaemic (NG) transplant recipients. Moreover, to assess specificities inherent in PTDM, we also comparatively evaluated glomerular proteomes from transplant recipients with preexisting type 2 DM (T2DM). METHODS: Protocol biopsies were obtained from adult NG, PTDM and T2DM patients one year after kidney transplantation. Biopsies were formalin-fixed and embedded in paraffin, and glomerular cross-sections were microdissected. A total of 4 NG, 7 PTDM and 6 T2DM kidney biopsies were used for the analysis. The proteome was determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Relative differences in protein abundance and significantly dysregulated pathways were analysed. RESULTS: Proteins involved in cell adhesion, immune response, leukocyte transendothelial filtration, and cell localization and organization were less abundant in glomeruli from PTDM patients than in those from NG patients, and proteins associated with supramolecular fibre organization and protein-containing complex binding were more abundant in PTDM patients. Overall, proteins related to adherens and tight junctions and those related to the immune system, including leukocyte transendothelial migration, were more abundant in NG patients than in transplanted patients with DM, irrespective of the timing of its development. However, proteins included in cell-cell junctions and adhesion, insulin resistance, and vesicle-mediated transport were all less abundant in PTDM patients than in T2DM patients. CONCLUSIONS: The glomerular proteome profile differentiates PTDM from NG and T2DM, suggesting specific pathogenetic mechanisms. Further studies are warranted to validate these results, potentially leading to an improved understanding of PTDM kidney transplant pathophysiology and to the identification of novel biomarkers.
PXD043536	37627169	Proteomic Mapping of the Interactome of KRAS Mutants Identifies New Features of RAS Signalling Networks and the Mechanism of Action of Sotorasib. 	Proteomic mapping of the interactome of KRAS mutants identifies new features of RAS signalling networks and the mechanism of action of Sotorasib.	APMS, RAS, Signalling	RAS proteins are key regulators of cell signalling and control different cell functions including cell proliferation, differentiation, and cell death. Point mutations in the genes of this family are common, particularly in KRAS. These mutations were thought to cause the constitutive activation of KRAS, but recent findings showed that some mutants can cycle between active and inactive states. This observation, together with the development of covalent KRASG12C inhibitors, has led to the arrival of KRAS inhibitors in the clinic. However, most patients develop resistance to these targeted therapies, and we lack effective treatments for other KRAS mutants. To accelerate the development of RAS targeting therapies, we need to fully characterise the molecular mechanisms governing KRAS signalling networks and determine what differentiates the signalling downstream of the KRAS mutants. Here we have used affinity purification mass-spectrometry proteomics to characterise the interactome of KRAS wild-type and three KRAS mutants. Bioinformatic analysis associated with experimental validation allows us to map the signalling network mediated by the different KRAS proteins. Using this approach, we characterised how the interactome of KRAS wild-type and mutants is regulated by the clinically approved KRASG12C inhibitor Sotorasib. In addition, we identified novel crosstalks between KRAS and its effector pathways including the AKT and JAK-STAT signalling modules.
PXD039433	37627612	Kinetic Effects of Transferrin-Conjugated Gold Nanoparticles on the Antioxidant Glutathione-Thioredoxin Pathway. 	Non-labelled proteomics expression analysis of PC-3 cells treated with transferrin conjugated gold nanoparticles	TEM, antioxidant, glutathione-thioredoxin, nanoparticle, reactive oxygen species	Nanoparticle-based therapeutics are being clinically translated for treating cancer. Even when thought to be biocompatible, nanoparticles are being increasingly identified as altering cell regulation and homeostasis. Antioxidant pathways are important for maintaining cell redox homeostasis and play important roles by maintaining ROS levels within tolerable ranges. Here, we sought to understand how a model of a relatively inert nanoparticle without any therapeutic agent itself could antagonize a cancer cell lines' antioxidant mechanism. A label-free protein expression approach was used to assess the glutathione-thioredoxin antioxidative pathway in a prostate cancer cell line (PC-3) after exposure to gold nanoparticles conjugated with a targeting moiety (transferrin). The impact of the nanoparticles was also corroborated through morphological analysis with TEM and classification of pro-apoptotic cells by way of the sub-G0/G1 population via the cell cycle and annexin V apoptosis assay. After a two-hour exposure to nanoparticles, major proteins associated with the glutathione-thioredoxin antioxidant pathway were downregulated. However, this response was acute, and in terms of protein expression, cells quickly recovered within 24 h once nanoparticle exposure ceased. The impact on PRDX-family proteins appears as the most influential factor in how these nanoparticles induced an oxidative stress response in the PC-3 cells. An apparent adaptive response was observed if exposure to nanoparticles continued. Acute exposure was observed to have a detrimental effect on cell viability compared to continuously exposed cells. Nanoparticle effects on cell regulation likely provide a compounding therapeutic advantage under some circumstances, in addition to the action of any cytotoxic agents; however, any therapeutic advantage offered by nanoparticles themselves with regard to vulnerabilities specific to the glutathione-thioredoxin antioxidative pathway is highly temporal.
PXD044327	37628636	Interplay of Impaired Cellular Bioenergetics and Autophagy in PMM2-CDG. 	Proteome and glycoproteome analysis of fibroblasts from patients with congenital disorders of glycosylation	CDG, fibroblasts, glycoproteomics, glycosylation	Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) and mitochondrial disorders are multisystem disorders with overlapping symptomatology. Pathogenic variants in the PMM2 gene lead to abnormal N-linked glycosylation. This disruption in glycosylation can induce endoplasmic reticulum stress, contributing to the disease pathology. Although impaired mitochondrial dysfunction has been reported in some CDG, cellular bioenergetics has never been evaluated in detail in PMM2-CDG. This prompted us to evaluate mitochondrial function and autophagy/mitophagy in vitro in PMM2 patient-derived fibroblast lines of differing genotypes from our natural history study. We found secondary mitochondrial dysfunction in PMM2-CDG. This dysfunction was evidenced by decreased mitochondrial maximal and ATP-linked respiration, as well as decreased complex I function of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Our study also revealed altered autophagy in PMM2-CDG patient-derived fibroblast lines. This was marked by an increased abundance of the autophagosome marker LC3-II. Additionally, changes in the abundance and glycosylation of proteins in the autophagy and mitophagy pathways further indicated dysregulation of these cellular processes. Interestingly, serum sorbitol levels (a biomarker of disease severity) and the CDG severity score showed an inverse correlation with the abundance of the autophagosome marker LC3-II. This suggests that autophagy may act as a modulator of biochemical and clinical markers of disease severity in PMM2-CDG. Overall, our research sheds light on the complex interplay between glycosylation, mitochondrial function, and autophagy/mitophagy in PMM2-CDG. Manipulating mitochondrial dysfunction and alterations in autophagy/mitophagy pathways could offer therapeutic benefits when combined with existing treatments for PMM2-CDG.
PXD030199	37628675	Complement System Activation Is a Plasma Biomarker Signature during Malaria in Pregnancy. 	Complement System Activation Is a Plasma Biomarker Signature during Malaria in Pregnancy 	complement system, malaria in pregnancy, protein signature	Malaria in pregnancy (MiP) is a public health problem in malaria-endemic areas, contributing to detrimental outcomes for both mother and fetus. Primigravida and second-time mothers are most affected by severe anemia complications and babies with low birth weight compared to multigravida women. Infected erythrocytes (IE) reach the placenta, activating the immune response by placental monocyte infiltration and inflammation. However, specific markers of MiP result in poor outcomes, such as low birth weight, and intrauterine growth restriction for babies and maternal anemia in women infected with Plasmodium falciparum are limited. In this study, we identified the plasma proteome signature of a mouse model infected with Plasmodium berghei ANKA and pregnant women infected with Plasmodium falciparum infection using quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics. A total of 279 and 249 proteins were quantified in murine and human plasma samples, of which 28% and 30% were regulated proteins, respectively. Most of the regulated proteins in both organisms are involved in complement system activation during malaria in pregnancy. CBA anaphylatoxin assay confirmed the complement system activation by the increase in C3a and C4a anaphylatoxins in the infected plasma compared to non-infected plasma. Moreover, correlation analysis showed the association between complement system activation and reduced head circumference in newborns from Pf-infected mothers. The data obtained in this study highlight the correlation between the complement system and immune and newborn outcomes resulting from malaria in pregnancy.
PXD026564	37628715	Proteomic and Mutant Analysis of Hydrogenase Maturation Protein Gene hypE in Symbiotic Nitrogen Fixation of Mesorhizobium huakuii. 	Proteomic and mutant analysis of hydrogenase gene hypE in symbiotic nitrogen fixation in Mesorhizobium huakuii	Antioxidant, FmoA, Hydrogenases, Mesorhizobium huakuii, Proteome & Mesorhizobium huakuii, Symbiotic nitrogen fixation, hypE gene, quantitative proteomics	Hydrogenases catalyze the simple yet important redox reaction between protons and electrons and H2, thus mediating symbiotic interactions. The contribution of hydrogenase to this symbiosis and anti-oxidative damage was investigated using the M. huakuii hypE (encoding hydrogenase maturation protein) mutant. The hypE mutant grew a little faster than its parental 7653R and displayed decreased antioxidative capacity under H2O2-induced oxidative damage. Real-time quantitative PCR showed that hypE gene expression is significantly up-regulated in all the detected stages of nodule development. Although the hypE mutant can form nodules, the symbiotic ability was severely impaired, which led to an abnormal nodulation phenotype coupled to a 47% reduction in nitrogen fixation capacity. This phenotype was linked to the formation of smaller abnormal nodules containing disintegrating and prematurely senescent bacteroids. Proteomics analysis allowed a total of ninety differentially expressed proteins (fold change > 1.5 or <0.67, p < 0.05) to be identified. Of these proteins, 21 are related to stress response and virulence, 21 are involved in transporter activity, and 18 are involved in energy and nitrogen metabolism. Overall, the HypE protein is essential for symbiotic nitrogen fixation, playing independent roles in supplying energy and electrons, in bacterial detoxification, and in the control of bacteroid differentiation and senescence.
PXD042545	37628759	Depletion of SNORA33 Abolishes psi of 28S-U4966 and Affects the Ribosome Translational Apparatus. 	SNORA33 Knockdown in chondrocytes	SNORA33, ribosome	Eukaryotic ribosomes are complex molecular nanomachines translating genetic information from mRNAs into proteins. There is natural heterogeneity in ribosome composition. The pseudouridylation (psi) of ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) is one of the key sources of ribosome heterogeneity. Nevertheless, the functional consequences of psi-based ribosome heterogeneity and its relevance for human disease are yet to be understood. Using HydraPsiSeq and a chronic disease model of non-osteoarthritic primary human articular chondrocytes exposed to osteoarthritic synovial fluid, we demonstrated that the disease microenvironment is capable of instigating site-specific changes in rRNA psi profiles. To investigate one of the identified differential rRNA psi sites (28S-psi4966), we generated SNORA22 and SNORA33 KO SW1353 cell pools using LentiCRISPRv2/Cas9 and evaluated the ribosome translational capacity by (35)S-Met/Cys incorporation, assessed the mode of translation initiation and ribosomal fidelity using dual luciferase reporters, and assessed cellular and ribosomal proteomes by LC-MS/MS. We uncovered that the depletion of SNORA33, but not SNORA22, reduced 28S-psi4966 levels. The resulting loss of 28S-psi4966 affected ribosomal protein composition and function and led to specific changes in the cellular proteome. Overall, our pioneering findings demonstrate that cells dynamically respond to disease-relevant changes in their environment by altering their rRNA pseudouridylation profiles, with consequences for ribosome function and the cellular proteome relevant to human disease.
PXD042114	37628837	Characterization of GEXP15 as a Potential Regulator of Protein Phosphatase 1 in Plasmodium falciparum. 	Unravelling the function of GEXP15, a regulator of Protein Phosphatase type 1, in Plasmodium falciparum	CD2BP2, GEXP15, GYF domain, Malaria, Plasmodium, Protein Phosphatase 1, Ribosome biogenesis	The Protein Phosphatase type 1 catalytic subunit (PP1c) (PF3D7_1414400) operates in combination with various regulatory proteins to specifically direct and control its phosphatase activity. However, there is little information about this phosphatase and its regulators in the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. To address this knowledge gap, we conducted a comprehensive investigation into the structural and functional characteristics of a conserved Plasmodium-specific regulator called Gametocyte EXported Protein 15, GEXP15 (PF3D7_1031600). Through in silico analysis, we identified three significant regions of interest in GEXP15: an N-terminal region housing a PP1-interacting RVxF motif, a conserved domain whose function is unknown, and a GYF-like domain that potentially facilitates specific protein-protein interactions. To further elucidate the role of GEXP15, we conducted in vitro interaction studies that demonstrated a direct interaction between GEXP15 and PP1 via the RVxF-binding motif. This interaction was found to enhance the phosphatase activity of PP1. Additionally, utilizing a transgenic GEXP15-tagged line and live microscopy, we observed high expression of GEXP15 in late asexual stages of the parasite, with localization predominantly in the nucleus. Immunoprecipitation assays followed by mass spectrometry analyses revealed the interaction of GEXP15 with ribosomal- and RNA-binding proteins. Furthermore, through pull-down analyses of recombinant functional domains of His-tagged GEXP15, we confirmed its binding to the ribosomal complex via the GYF domain. Collectively, our study sheds light on the PfGEXP15-PP1-ribosome interaction, which plays a crucial role in protein translation. These findings suggest that PfGEXP15 could serve as a potential target for the development of malaria drugs.
PXD042620	37628973	Identification of Host PDZ-Based Interactions with the SARS-CoV-2 E Protein in Human Monocytes. 	Identification of host PDZ-based interactions with SARS-CoV-2 E protein in human monocytes	Envelope E protein, IL-16, PDZ, SARS-CoV-2, ZO-2, coronavirus, innate immune response, macrophage, monocyte, syntenin, viral targeting	Proteins containing PDZ (post-synaptic density, PSD-95/disc large, Dlg/zonula occludens, ZO-1) domains assemble signaling complexes that orchestrate cell responses. Viral pathogens target host PDZ proteins by coding proteins containing a PDZ-binding motif (PBM). The presence of a PBM in the SARS-CoV-2 E protein contributes to the virus's pathogenicity. SARS-CoV-2 infects epithelia, but also cells from the innate immune response, including monocytes and alveolar macrophages. This process is critical for alterations of the immune response that are related to the deaths caused by SARS-CoV-2. Identification of E-protein targets in immune cells might offer clues to understanding how SARS-CoV-2 alters the immune response. We analyzed the interactome of the SARS-CoV-2 E protein in human monocytes. The E protein was expressed fused to a GFP tag at the amino terminal in THP-1 monocytes, and associated proteins were identified using a proteomic approach. The E-protein interactome provided 372 partners; only 8 of these harbored PDZ domains, including the cell polarity protein ZO-2, the chemoattractant IL-16, and syntenin. We addressed the expression and localization of the identified PDZ proteins along the differentiation of primary and THP-1 monocytes towards macrophages and dendritic cells. Our data highlight the importance of identifying the functions of PDZ proteins in the maintenance of immune fitness and the viral alteration of inflammatory response.
PXD042499	37629086	Ezrin Inhibition Overcomes Acquired Resistance to Vemurafenib in BRAFV600E-Mutated Colon Cancer and Melanoma Cells In Vitro. 	Ezrin inhibition overcomes acquired resistance to vemurafenib in BRAFV600E-mutated colon cancer and melanoma cells in vitro	BRAF inhibitor, BRAFV600E, NSC305787, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, actin cytoskeleton, colon cancer, ezrin, ezrin inhibitor, melanoma, vemurafenib	Despite the advancements in targeted therapy for BRAFV600E-mutated metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), the development of resistance to BRAFV600E inhibition limits the response rate and durability of the treatment. Better understanding of the resistance mechanisms to BRAF inhibitors will facilitate the design of novel pharmacological strategies for BRAF-mutated mCRC. The aim of this study was to identify novel protein candidates involved in acquired resistance to BRAFV600E inhibitor vemurafenib in BRAFV600E-mutated colon cancer cells using an integrated proteomics approach. Bioinformatic analysis of obtained proteomics data indicated actin-cytoskeleton linker protein ezrin as a highly ranked protein significantly associated with vemurafenib resistance whose overexpression in the resistant cells was additionally confirmed at the gene and protein level. Ezrin inhibition by NSC305787 increased anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of vemurafenib in the resistant cells in an additive manner, which was accompanied by downregulation of CD44 expression and inhibition of AKT/c-Myc activities. We also detected an increased ezrin expression in vemurafenib-resistant melanoma cells harbouring the BRAFV600E mutation. Importantly, ezrin inhibition potentiated anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of vemurafenib in the resistant melanoma cells in a synergistic manner. Altogether, our study suggests a role of ezrin in acquired resistance to vemurafenib in colon cancer and melanoma cells carrying the BRAFV600E mutation and supports further pre-clinical and clinical studies to explore the benefits of combined BRAF inhibitors and actin-targeting drugs as a potential therapeutic approach for BRAFV600E-mutated cancers.
PXD043261	37631095	Ancistrocladinium A Induces Apoptosis in Proteasome Inhibitor-Resistant Multiple Myeloma Cells: A Promising Therapeutic Agent Candidate. 	Ancistrocladinium A induces cell death in drug-resistant myeloma cells via targeting transcription and RNA splicing machinery and ATF4-dependent apoptotic pathway: a promising candidate as a drug for multiple myeloma	Ancistrocladinium A, Multiple Myeloma, RNA splicing, carfilzomib, nanoLC-MS/MS, panobinostat, proteasome inhibitor resistance	The N,C-coupled naphthylisoquinoline alkaloid ancistrocladinium A belongs to a novel class of natural products with potent antiprotozoal activity. Its effects on tumor cells, however, have not yet been explored. We demonstrate the antitumor activity of ancistrocladinium A in multiple myeloma (MM), a yet incurable blood cancer that represents a model disease for adaptation to proteotoxic stress. Viability assays showed a potent apoptosis-inducing effect of ancistrocladinium A in MM cell lines, including those with proteasome inhibitor (PI) resistance, and in primary MM cells, but not in non-malignant blood cells. Concomitant treatment with the PI carfilzomib or the histone deacetylase inhibitor panobinostat strongly enhanced the ancistrocladinium A-induced apoptosis. Mass spectrometry with biotinylated ancistrocladinium A revealed significant enrichment of RNA-splicing-associated proteins. Affected RNA-splicing-associated pathways included genes involved in proteotoxic stress response, such as PSMB5-associated genes and the heat shock proteins HSP90 and HSP70. Furthermore, we found strong induction of ATF4 and the ATM/H2AX pathway, both of which are critically involved in the integrated cellular response following proteotoxic and oxidative stress. Taken together, our data indicate that ancistrocladinium A targets cellular stress regulation in MM and improves the therapeutic response to PIs or overcomes PI resistance, and thus may represent a promising potential therapeutic agent.
PXD040891	37632105	MDM2 Influences ACE2 Stability and SARS-CoV-2 Uptake. 	MDM2 influences ACE2 stability and SARS-Cov2 uptake	ACE2, SARS-CoV2, Ubiquitination	Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is the central entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2. However, surprisingly little is known about the effects of host regulators on ACE2 localization, expression, and the associated influence on SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here we identify that ACE2 expression levels are regulated by the E3 ligase MDM2 and that MDM2 levels indirectly influence infection with SARS-CoV-2. Genetic depletion of MDM2 elevated ACE2 expression levels, which strongly promoted infection with all SARS-CoV-2 isolates tested. SARS-CoV-2 spike-pseudotyped viruses and the uptake of non-replication-competent virus-like particles showed that MDM2 affects the viral uptake process. MDM2 ubiquitinates Lysine 788 of ACE2 to induce proteasomal degradation, and degradation of this residue led to higher ACE2 expression levels and superior virus particle uptake. Our study illustrates that cellular regulators of ACE2 stability, such as MDM2, play an important role in defining the infection capabilities of SARS-CoV-2.
PXD023846	37633273	Preserved respiratory chain capacity and physiology in mice with profoundly reduced levels of mitochondrial respirasomes. 	Preserved respiratory chain capacity and physiology in mice with profoundly reduced levels of mitochondrial respirasomes	OXPHOS, TMT, complexome profiling, mitochondria, supercomplex	The mammalian respiratory chain complexes I, III2, and IV (CI, CIII2, and CIV) are critical for cellular bioenergetics and form a stable assembly, the respirasome (CI-CIII2-CIV), that is biochemically and structurally well documented. The role of the respirasome in bioenergetics and the regulation of metabolism is subject to intense debate and is difficult to study because the individual respiratory chain complexes coexist together with high levels of respirasomes. To critically investigate the in vivo role of the respirasome, we generated homozygous knockin mice that have normal levels of respiratory chain complexes but profoundly decreased levels of respirasomes. Surprisingly, the mutant mice are healthy, with preserved respiratory chain capacity and normal exercise performance. Our findings show that high levels of respirasomes are dispensable for maintaining bioenergetics and physiology in mice but raise questions about their alternate functions, such as those relating to the regulation of protein stability and prevention of age-associated protein aggregation.
PXD043774	37633276	Plasma proteomic profiling discovers molecular features associated with upper tract urothelial carcinoma. 	Plasma proteomic profiling discovers molecular features associated with upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma	plasma proteomic, upper tract urothelial carcinoma	Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is often diagnosed late and exhibits poor prognosis. Limited data are available on potential non-invasive biomarkers for disease monitoring. Here, we investigate the proteomic profile of plasma in 362 UTUC patients and 239 healthy controls. We present an integrated tissue-plasma proteomic approach to infer the signature proteins for identifying patients with muscle-invasive UTUC. We discover a protein panel that reflects lymph node metastasis, which is of interest in identifying UTUC patients with high risk and poor prognosis. We also identify a ten-protein classifier and establish a progression clock predicting progression-free survival of UTUC patients. Finally, we further validate the signature proteins by parallel reaction monitoring assay in an independent cohort. Collectively, this study portrays the plasma proteomic landscape of a UTUC cohort and provides a valuable resource for further biological and diagnostic research in UTUC.
PXD041782	37633993	CRTAC1 enhances the chemosensitivity of non-small cell lung cancer to cisplatin by eliciting RyR-mediated calcium release and inhibiting Akt1 expression. 	CRTAC1 Enhances the Chemosensitivity of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer to Cisplatin by Eliciting RyR-mediated Calcium Release and Inhibiting Akt1 Expression	Akt1, CRTAC1, Ca2+, Human Proteome Project, Non-small cell lung cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), chemosensitivity	Sensitivity to platinum-based combination chemotherapy is associated with a favorable prognosis in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Here, our results obtained from analyses of the Gene Expression Omnibus database of NSCLC patients showed that cartilage acidic protein 1 (CRTAC1) plays a role in the response to platinum-based chemotherapy. Overexpression of CRTAC1 increased sensitivity to cisplatin in vitro, whereas knockdown of CRTAC1 decreased chemosensitivity of NSCLC cells. In vivo mouse experiments showed that CRTAC1 overexpression increased the antitumor effects of cisplatin. CRTAC1 overexpression promoted NFAT transcriptional activation by increasing intracellular Ca(2+) levels, thereby inducing its regulated STUB1 mRNA transcription and protein expression, accelerating Akt1 protein degradation and, in turn, enhancing cisplatin-induced apoptosis. Taken together, the present results indicate that CRTAC1 overexpression increases the chemosensitivity of NSCLC to cisplatin treatment by inducing Ca(2+)-dependent Akt1 degradation and apoptosis, suggesting the potential of CRTAC1 as a biomarker for predicting cisplatin chemosensitivity. Our results further reveal that modulating the expression of CRTAC1 could be a new strategy for increasing the efficacy of cisplatin in chemotherapy of NSCLC patients.
PXD038697	37634036	Comparative proteome and serum analysis identified FSCN1 as a marker of abiraterone resistance in castration-resistant prostate cancer. 	Comparative proteome and serum analysis identified FSCN1 as a marker of abiraterone resistance in castration-resistant prostate cancer	AMACR, Abiraterone, CTAG1A, FSCN1, KLK2, biomarker, prostate cancer	BACKGROUND: Abiraterone (Abi) is an androgen receptor signaling inhibitor that significantly improves patients' life expectancy in metastatic prostate cancer (PCa). Despite its beneficial effects, many patients have baseline or acquired resistance against Abi. The aim of this study was to identify predictive serum biomarkers for Abi treatment. METHODS: We performed a comparative proteome analysis on three Abi sensitive (LNCaPabl, LAPC4, DuCaP) and resistant (LNCaPabl-Abi, LAPC4-Abi, DuCaP-Abi) PCa cell lines using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) technique. Two bioinformatic selection workflows were applied to select the most promising candidate serum markers. Serum levels of selected proteins were assessed in samples of 100 Abi-treated patients with metastatic castration-resistant disease (mCRPC) using ELISA. Moreover, FSCN1 serum concentrations were measured in samples of 69 Docetaxel (Doc) treated mCRPC patients. RESULTS: Our proteome analysis identified 68 significantly, at least two-fold upregulated proteins in Abi resistant cells. Using two filtering workflows four proteins (AMACR, KLK2, FSCN1 and CTAG1A) were selected for ELISA analyses. We found high baseline FSCN1 serum levels to be significantly associated with poor survival in Abi-treated mCRPC patients. Moreover, the multivariable analysis revealed that higher ECOG status (>1) and high baseline FSCN1 serum levels (>10.22 ng/ml by ROC cut-off) were independently associated with worse survival in Abi-treated patients (p < 0.001 and p = 0.021, respectively). In contrast, no association was found between serum FSCN1 concentrations and overall survival in Doc-treated patients. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis identified baseline FSCN1 serum levels to be independently associated with poor survival of Abi-treated, but not Doc-treated mCRPC patients, suggesting a therapy specific prognostic value for FSCN1.
PXD033011	37635201	TCAF2 in Pericytes Promotes Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastasis via Inhibiting Cold-Sensing TRPM8 Channel. 	Proteomic data for tumor pericytes derived from colorectal cancer patients	Tumor pericytes, metastasis colorectal cancer	Hematogenous metastasis is the main approach for colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRCLM). However, as the gatekeepers in the tumor vessels, the role of TPCs in hematogenous metastasis remains largely unknown, which may be attributed to the lack of specific biomarkers for TPC isolation. Here, microdissection combined with a pericyte medium-based approach is developed to obtain TPCs from CRC patients. Proteomic analysis reveals that TRP channel-associated factor 2 (TCAF2), a partner protein of the transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 8 (TRPM8), is overexpressed in TPCs from patients with CRCLM. TCAF2 in TPCs is correlated with liver metastasis, short overall survival, and disease-free survival in CRC patients. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments validate that TCAF2 in TPCs promotes tumor cell motility, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and CRCLM, which is attenuated in pericyte-conditional Tcaf2-knockout mice. Mechanistically, TCAF2 inhibits the expression and activity of TRPM8, leading to Wnt5a secretion in TPCs, which facilitates EMT via the activation of the STAT3 signaling pathway in tumor cells. Menthol, a TRPM8 agonist, significantly suppresses Wnt5a secretion in TPCs and CRCLM. This study reveals the previously unidentified pro-metastatic effects of TPCs from the perspective of cold-sensory receptors, providing a promising diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target for CRCLM.
PXD038271	37637064	A combined immunopeptidomics, proteomics, and cell surface proteomics approach to identify immunotherapy targets for diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma. 	The immunopeptidome and proteome of DIPG	DIPG, HLA, Immunopeptidomics	Introduction: Diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), recently reclassified as a subtype of diffuse midline glioma, is a highly aggressive brainstem tumor affecting children and young adults, with no cure and a median survival of only 9 months. Conventional treatments are ineffective, highlighting the need for alternative therapeutic strategies such as cellular immunotherapy. However, identifying unique and tumor-specific cell surface antigens to target with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) or T-cell receptor (TCR) therapies is challenging. Methods: In this study, a multi-omics approach was used to interrogate patient-derived DIPG cell lines and to identify potential targets for immunotherapy. Results: Through immunopeptidomics, a range of targetable peptide antigens from cancer testis and tumor-associated antigens as well as peptides derived from human endogenous retroviral elements were identified. Proteomics analysis also revealed upregulation of potential drug targets and cell surface proteins such as Cluster of differentiation 27 (CD276) B7 homolog 3 protein (B7H3), Interleukin 13 alpha receptor 2 (IL-13Ralpha2), Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 3 (HER2), Ephrin Type-A Receptor 2 (EphA2), and Ephrin Type-A Receptor 3 (EphA3). Discussion: The results of this study provide a valuable resource for the scientific community to accelerate immunotherapeutic approaches for DIPG. Identifying potential targets for CAR and TCR therapies could open up new avenues for treating this devastating disease.
PXD043468	37637167	Identification of potential functional peptides involved in demyelinating injury in the central nervous system. 	Distinct peptide profiles in CPZ-induced mouse	MBP, demyelination, multiple sclerosis, myelin, peptide	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory neurologic disease characterized by the demyelinating injury of the central nervous system (CNS). It was reported that the mutant peptide came from myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) and myelin basic protein (MBP) might play a critical role in immunotherapy function of MS. However, endogenous peptides in demyelinating brain tissue of MS and their role in the pathologic process of MS have not been revealed. Here, we performed peptidomic analysis of freshly isolated corpus callosum (CC) from the brains of CPZ-treated mice and normal diet controls of male C57BL/6 mice by LC-MS/MS. Identified a total of 217 peptides were expressed at different levels in MS mice model compared with controls. By performed GO (Gene Ontology) and KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) analysis, we found that the precursor protein of these differently expressed peptides (DEPs) were associated with myelin sheath and oxidative phosphorylation. Our study is the first brain peptidomic of MS mice model, revealing the distinct features of DEPs in demyelination brain tissue. These DPEs may provide further insight into the pathogenesis and complexity of MS, which would facilitate the discovery of the potential novel and effective strategy for the treatment of MS.
PXD040842	37638012	Acute murine cytomegalovirus infection boosts cell-type specific response and lipid metabolism changes in the liver of infant mice. 	Acute murine cytomegalovirus infection boosts cell-type specific response andlipid metabolism changes in infant mice liver	MCMV, liver, mice	Introduction: Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection in infants can lead to severe diseases, including neonatal hepatitis. The single-cell dimensional changes in immune cells after the initial CMV infection remain elusive, as do the effects of CMV infection on hepatic lipid metabolism. Methods: We employed single-cell RNA-sequencing to investigate the changes in liver cell types and immune responses in infant mice following murine CMV (MCMV) infection. Additionally, we examined alterations in protein expression profiles related to lipid metabolism in hepatocytes and the role of the key transcription factor PPAR-gamma in hepatocytes during CMV infection. Results: Our study revealed that MCMV infects most liver cell types in infant mice, leading to an increase in the proportion of proliferating CD8 effector T cells and a subset of Nos2(+) monocytes, potentially playing an essential role in early anti-viral responses. Furthermore, MCMV infection resulted in altered protein expression of lipid metabolism in hepatocytes. Knocking down the transcription factor PPAR-gamma in hepatocytes effectively inhibited CMV infection. Discussion: Our findings underscore the immune system's response to early-stage MCMV infection and the subsequent impact on hepatic lipid metabolism in infant mice. This research provides new insights into the mechanisms of CMV infection and could pave the way for novel therapeutic strategies.
PXD042435	37638758	DONSON facilitates Cdc45 and GINS chromatin association and is essential for DNA replication initiation. 	Chromatin proteome of S-phase in IgG- and DONSON-depleted egg extract	DONSON, Xenopus, chromatin, replication initiation	Faithful cell division is the basis for the propagation of life and DNA replication must be precisely regulated. DNA replication stress is a prominent endogenous source of genome instability that not only leads to ageing, but also neuropathology and cancer development in humans. Specifically, the issues of how vertebrate cells select and activate origins of replication are of importance as, for example, insufficient origin firing leads to genomic instability and mutations in replication initiation factors lead to the rare human disease Meier-Gorlin syndrome. The mechanism of origin activation has been well characterised and reconstituted in yeast, however, an equal understanding of this process in higher eukaryotes is lacking. The firing of replication origins is driven by S-phase kinases (CDKs and DDK) and results in the activation of the replicative helicase and generation of two bi-directional replication forks. Our data, generated from cell-free Xenopus laevis egg extracts, show that DONSON is required for assembly of the active replicative helicase (CMG complex) at origins during replication initiation. DONSON has previously been shown to be essential during DNA replication, both in human cells and in Drosophila, but the mechanism of DONSON's action was unknown. Here we show that DONSON's presence is essential for replication initiation as it is required for Cdc45 and GINS association with Mcm2-7 complexes and helicase activation. To fulfil this role, DONSON interacts with the initiation factor, TopBP1, in a CDK-dependent manner. Following its initiation role, DONSON also forms a part of the replisome during the elongation stage of DNA replication. Mutations in DONSON have recently been shown to lead to the Meier-Gorlin syndrome; this novel replication initiation role of DONSON therefore provides the explanation for the phenotypes caused by DONSON mutations in patients.
PXD041445	37639207	Integrative proteomics and n-glycoproteomics reveal the synergistic anti-tumor effects of aspirin- and gemcitabine-based chemotherapy on pancreatic cancer cells. 	Integrative Proteomics and N-Glycoproteomics Reveals the Synergistic Anti-tumor Effects of Aspirin and Gemcitabine-based Chemotherapy on Pancreatic Cancer Cells	Aspirin, Gemcitabine, N-Glycoproteomics, Pancreatic Cancer	OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN: Pancreatic cancer is a highly malignant tumor that is well known for its poor prognosis. Based on glycosylation, we performed integrated quantitative N-glycoproteomics to investigate the synergistic anti-tumor effects of aspirin and gemcitabine on pancreatic cancer cells and explore the potential molecular mechanisms of chemotherapy in pancreatic cancer. METHODS AND RESULTS: Two pancreatic cancer cell lines (PANC-1 and BxPC-3) were treated with gemcitabine, aspirin, and a combination (gemcitabine + aspirin). We found that the addition of aspirin enhanced the inhibitory effect of gemcitabine on the activity of PANC-1 and BxPC-3 cells. Quantitative N-glycoproteome, proteome, phosphorylation, and transcriptome data were obtained from integrated multi-omics analysis to evaluate the anti-tumor effects of aspirin and gemcitabine on pancreatic cancer cells. Mfuzz analysis of intact N-glycopeptide profiles revealed two consistent trends associated with the addition of aspirin, which showed a strong relationship between N-glycosylation and the synergistic effect of aspirin. Further analysis demonstrated that the dynamic regulation of sialylation and high-mannose glycoforms on ECM-related proteins (LAMP1, LAMP2, ITGA3, etc.) was a significant factor for the ability of aspirin to promote the anti-tumor activity of gemcitabine and the drug resistance of pancreatic cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: In-depth analysis of N-glycosylation-related processes and pathways in pancreatic cancer cells can provide new insight for future studies regarding pancreatic cancer therapeutic targets and drug resistance mechanisms.
PXD042450	37639361	Assessing the Role of Trypsin in Quantitative Plasma and Single-Cell Proteomics toward Clinical Application. 	Assessing the role of trypsin in quantitative plasma- and single-cell proteomics towards clinical application	Trypsin, absolute quantification, bottom-up proteomics, plasma proteomics, single-cell proteomics, targeted proteomics	Mass spectrometry-based bottom-up proteomics is rapidly evolving and routinely applied in large-scale biomedical studies. Proteases are a central component of every bottom-up proteomics experiment, digesting proteins into peptides. Trypsin has been the most widely applied protease in proteomics due to its characteristics. With ever-larger cohort sizes and possible future clinical application of mass spectrometry-based proteomics, the technical impact of trypsin becomes increasingly relevant. To assess possible biases introduced by trypsin digestion, we evaluated the impact of eight commercially available trypsins in a variety of bottom-up proteomics experiments and across a range of protease concentrations and storage times. To investigate the universal impact of these technical attributes, we included bulk HeLa cell lysate, human plasma, and single HEK293 cells, which were analyzed over a range of selected reaction monitoring (SRM), data-independent acquisition (DIA), and data-dependent acquisition (DDA) instrument methods on three LC-MS instruments. The quantification methods employed encompassed both label-free approaches and absolute quantification utilizing spike-in heavy-labeled recombinant protein fragment standards. Based on this extensive data set, we report variations between commercial trypsins, their source, and their concentration. Furthermore, we provide suggestions on the handling of trypsin in large-scale studies.
PXD039387	37639587	Glycoproteome remodeling and organelle-specific N-glycosylation accompany neutrophil granulopoiesis. 	Spatiotemporal glycoproteome remodelling in neutrophils	Remodelling, glycoproteome, glycoproteomics, granule, maturation, neutrophil	Neutrophils store microbicidal glycoproteins in cytosolic granules to fight intruding pathogens, but their granule distribution and formation mechanism(s) during granulopoiesis remain unmapped. Herein, we comprehensively profile the neutrophil N-glycoproteome with spatiotemporal resolution by analyzing four key types of intracellular organelles isolated from blood-derived neutrophils and during their maturation from bone marrow-derived progenitors using a glycomics-guided glycoproteomics approach. Interestingly, the organelles of resting neutrophils exhibited distinctive glycophenotypes including, most strikingly, highly truncated N-glycans low in alpha2,6-sialylation and Lewis fucosylation decorating a diverse set of microbicidal proteins (e.g., myeloperoxidase, azurocidin, neutrophil elastase) in the azurophilic granules. Excitingly, proteomics and transcriptomics data from discrete myeloid progenitor stages revealed that profound glycoproteome remodeling underpins the promyelocytic-to-metamyelocyte transition and that the glycophenotypic differences are driven primarily by dynamic changes in protein expression and less by changes within the glycosylation machinery. Notable exceptions were the oligosaccharyltransferase subunits responsible for initiation of N-glycoprotein biosynthesis that were strongly expressed in early myeloid progenitors correlating with relatively high levels of glycosylation of the microbicidal proteins in the azurophilic granules. Our study provides spatiotemporal insights into the complex neutrophil N-glycoproteome featuring intriguing organelle-specific N-glycosylation patterns formed by dynamic glycoproteome remodeling during the early maturation stages of the myeloid progenitors.
PXD036480	37639591	Extended lifespan and improved genome stability in HepaRG-derived cell lines through reprogramming by high-density stress. 	Quantitative LC-MSMS of new hepatoma HepaRG-derived cells obtained using compression forces	Mechanotransduction, liver cell lines, transdifferentiation	The characteristics and fate of cancer cells partly depend on their environmental stiffness, i.e., the local mechanical cues they face. HepaRG progenitors are liver carcinoma cells exhibiting transdifferentiation properties; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. To evaluate the impact of external physical forces mimicking the tumor microenvironment, we seeded them at very high density for 20 h, keeping the cells round and unanchored to the substrate. Applied without corticoids, spatial confinement due to very high density induced reprogramming of HepaRG cells into stable replicative stem-like cells after replating at normal density. Redifferentiation of these stem-like cells into cells very similar to the original HepaRG cells was then achieved using the same stress but in the presence of corticoids. This demonstrates that the cells retained the memory required to run the complete hepatic differentiation program, after bypassing the Hayflick limit twice. We show that physical stress improved chromosome quality and genomic stability, through greater efficiency of DNA repair and restoration of telomerase activity, thus enabling cells to escape progression to a more aggressive cancer state. We also show the primary importance of high-density seeding, possibly triggering compressive stress, in these processes, rather than that of cell roundness or intracellular tensional signals. The HepaRG-derived lines established here considerably extend the lifespan and availability of this surrogate cell system for mature human hepatocytes. External physical stress is a promising way to create a variety of cell lines, and it paves the way for the development of strategies to improve cancer prognosis.
PXD037317	37640964	FOXO1-regulated lncRNA CYP1B1-AS1 suppresses breast cancer cell proliferation by inhibiting neddylation. 	Breast cancer cell MCF7+CYP1B1-AS1 LC-MS/MS	CYP1B1-AS1, MCF7	PURPOSE: Overactivated neddylation is considered to be a common event in cancer. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) can regulate cancer development by mediating post-translational modifications. However, the role of lncRNA in neddylation modification remains unclear. METHODS: LncRNA cytochrome P450 family 1 subfamily B member 1 antisense RNA 1 (CYP1B1-AS1) expression in breast cancer tissues was evaluated by RT-PCR and TCGA BRCA data. Gain and loss of function experiments were performed to explore the role of CYP1B1-AS1 in breast cancer cell proliferation and apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Luciferase assay, CHIP-qPCR assay, transcriptome sequencing, RNA-pulldown assay, mass spectrometry, RIP-PCR and Western blot were used to investigate the regulatory factors of CYP1B1-AS1 expression and the molecular mechanism of CYP1B1-AS1 involved in neddylation modification. RESULTS: We found that CYP1B1-AS1 was down-regulated in breast cancer tissues and correlated with prognosis. In vivo and in vitro functional experiments confirmed that CYP1B1-AS1 inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, CYP1B1-AS1 was regulated by the transcription factor, forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), and could be upregulated by inhibiting the PI3K/FOXO1 pathway. Moreover, CYP1B1-AS1 bound directly to NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1 (NAE1) to regulate protein neddylation. CONCLUSION: This study reports for the first time that CYP1B1-AS1 inhibits protein neddylation to affect breast cancer cell proliferation, which provides a new strategy for the treatment of breast cancer by lncRNA targeting neddylation modification.
PXD034382	37644025	Cell type-specific NRBF2 orchestrates autophagic flux and adult hippocampal neurogenesis in chronic stress-induced depression. 	NRBF2 orchestrates autophagic flux and adult hippocampal neurogenesis in chronic stress-induced depression	Dentate gyrus, NRBF2, autophagy	Dysfunctional autophagy and impairment of adult hippocampal neurogenesis (AHN) each contribute to the pathogenesis of major depressive disorder (MDD). However, whether dysfunctional autophagy is linked to aberrant AHN underlying MDD remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that the expression of nuclear receptor binding factor 2 (NRBF2), a component of autophagy-associated PIK3C3/VPS34-containing phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complex, is attenuated in the dentate gyrus (DG) under chronic stress. NRBF2 deficiency inhibits the activity of the VPS34 complex and impairs autophagic flux in adult neural stem cells (aNSCs). Moreover, loss of NRBF2 disrupts the neurogenesis-related protein network and causes exhaustion of aNSC pool, leading to the depression-like phenotype. Strikingly, overexpressing NRBF2 in aNSCs of the DG is sufficient to rescue impaired AHN and depression-like phenotype of mice. Our findings reveal a significant role of NRBF2-dependent autophagy in preventing chronic stress-induced AHN impairment and suggest the therapeutic potential of targeting NRBF2 in MDD treatment.
PXD038900	37644512	Repeat length of C9orf72-associated glycine-alanine polypeptides affects their toxicity. 	Repeat length of the C9orf72-associated glycine-alanine polypeptides affects their toxicity	C9orf72, Drosophila, Glycine-Alanine, Repeat Length, Toxicity	G4C2 hexanucleotide repeat expansions in a non-coding region of the C9orf72 gene are the most common cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). G4C2 insertion length is variable, and patients can carry up to several thousand repeats. Dipeptide repeat proteins (DPRs) translated from G4C2 transcripts are thought to be a main driver of toxicity. Experiments in model organisms with relatively short DPRs have shown that arginine-rich DPRs are most toxic, while polyGlycine-Alanine (GA) DPRs cause only mild toxicity. However, GA is the most abundant DPR in patient brains, and experimental work in animals has generally relied on the use of low numbers of repeats, with DPRs often tagged for in vivo tracking. Whether repeat length or tagging affect the toxicity of GA has not been systematically assessed. Therefore, we generated Drosophila fly lines expressing GA100, GA200 or GA400 specifically in adult neurons. Consistent with previous studies, expression of GA100 and GA200 caused only mild toxicity. In contrast, neuronal expression of GA400 drastically reduced climbing ability and survival of flies, indicating that long GA DPRs can be highly toxic in vivo. This toxicity could be abolished by tagging GA400. Proteomics analysis of fly brains showed a repeat-length-dependent modulation of the brain proteome, with GA400 causing earlier and stronger changes than shorter GA proteins. PolyGA expression up-regulated proteins involved in ER to Golgi trafficking, and down-regulated proteins involved in insulin signalling. Experimental down-regulation of Tango1, a highly conserved regulator of ER-to Golgi transport, partially rescued GA400 toxicity, suggesting that misregulation of this process contributes to polyGA toxicity. Experimentally increasing insulin signaling also rescued GA toxicity. In summary, our data show that long polyGA proteins can be highly toxic in vivo, and that they may therefore contribute to ALS/FTD pathogenesis in patients.
PXD041648	37644723	MicroRNA137-loaded lipid nanoparticles regulate synaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex. 	MicroRNA137-loaded lipid nanoparticles regulate synaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex	isobaric labeling, lipid nanoparticle, microRNA, personalized medicine, prefrontal cortex, quantitative proteomics, schizophrenia, synaptic proteins	Genome-wide association studies indicate that allele variants in MIR137, the host gene of microRNA137 (miR137), confer an increased risk of schizophrenia (SCZ). Aberrant expression of miR137 and its targets, many of which regulate synaptic functioning, are also associated with an increased risk of SCZ. Thus, miR137 represents an attractive target aimed at correcting the molecular basis for synaptic dysfunction in individuals with high genetic risk for SCZ. Advancements in nanotechnology utilize lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) to transport and deliver therapeutic RNA. However, there remains a gap in using LNPs to regulate gene and protein expression in the brain. To study the delivery of nucleic acids by LNPs to the brain, we found that LNPs released miR137 cargo and inhibited target transcripts of interest in neuroblastoma cells. Biodistribution of LNPs loaded with firefly luciferase mRNA remained localized to the mouse prefrontal cortex (PFC) injection site without circulating to off-target organs. LNPs encapsulating Cre mRNA preferentially co-expressed in neuronal over microglial or astrocytic cells. Using quantitative proteomics, we found miR137 modulated glutamatergic synaptic protein networks that are commonly dysregulated in SCZ. These studies support engineering the next generation of brain-specific LNPs to deliver RNA therapeutics and improve symptoms of central nervous system disorders.
PXD045043	37645907	Robust collection and processing for label-free single voxel proteomics. 	Robust collection and processing for label-free single voxel proteomics	LCM, Spatial proteomics, region of interest, single voxel proteomics, wcSOP-MS	With advanced mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics, genome-scale proteome coverage can be achieved from bulk tissues. However, such bulk measurement lacks spatial resolution and obscures important tissue heterogeneity, which make it impossible for proteome mapping of tissue microenvironment. Here we report an integrated wet collection of single tissue voxel and Surfactant-assisted One-Pot voxel processing method termed wcSOP for robust label-free single voxel proteomics. wcSOP capitalizes on buffer droplet-assisted wet collection of single tissue voxel dissected by LCM into the PCR tube cap and MS-compatible surfactant-assisted one-pot voxel processing in the collection cap. This convenient method allows reproducible label-free quantification of ~900 and ~4,600 proteins for single voxel from fresh frozen human spleen tissue at 20 mum x 20 mum x 10 mum (close to single cells) and 200 mum x 200 mum x 10 mum (~100 cells), respectively. 100s-1000s of protein signatures with differential expression levels were identified to be spatially resolved between spleen red and white pulp regions depending on the voxel size. Region-specific signaling pathways were enriched from single voxel proteomics data. Antibody-based CODEX imaging was used to validate label-free MS quantitation for single voxel analysis. The wcSOP-MS method paves the way for routine robust single voxel proteomics and spatial proteomics.
PXD035026	37646115	Proteomics and mathematical modeling of longitudinal CSF differentiates fast versus slow ALS progression. 	Proteomics Characterization of Longitudinal CSF from ALS Fast and Slow Progressors	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, CSF	OBJECTIVE: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a heterogeneous disease with a complex etiology that lacks biomarkers predicting disease progression. The objective of this study was to use longitudinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples to identify biomarkers that distinguish fast progression (FP) from slow progression (SP) and assess their temporal response. METHODS: We utilized mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics to identify candidate biomarkers using longitudinal CSF from a discovery cohort of SP and FP ALS patients. Immunoassays were used to quantify and validate levels of the top biomarkers. A state-transition mathematical model was created using the longitudinal MS data that also predicted FP versus SP. RESULTS: We identified a total of 1148 proteins in the CSF of all ALS patients. Pathway analysis determined enrichment of pathways related to complement and coagulation cascades in FPs and synaptogenesis and glucose metabolism in SPs. Longitudinal analysis revealed a panel of 59 candidate markers that could segregate FP and SP ALS. Based on multivariate analysis, we identified three biomarkers (F12, RBP4, and SERPINA4) as top candidates that segregate ALS based on rate of disease progression. These proteins were validated in the discovery and a separate validation cohort. Our state-transition model determined that the overall variance of the proteome over time was predictive of the disease progression rate. INTERPRETATION: We identified pathways and protein biomarkers that distinguish rate of ALS disease progression. A mathematical model of the CSF proteome determined that the change in entropy of the proteome over time was predictive of FP versus SP.
PXD030975	37646165	Proteomic Atlas of Atherosclerosis: The Contribution of Proteoglycans to Sex Differences, Plaque Phenotypes, and Outcomes. 	A Proteomic Atlas of Atherosclerosis: Regional Proteomic Signatures for Plaque Inflammation and Calcification	Atherosclerosis, Calcification, Cardiovascular Outcome Prognosis, Carotid Endarterectomy, Inflammation, Plaque, TMT-labelling	BACKGROUND: Using proteomics, we aimed to reveal molecular types of human atherosclerotic lesions and study their associations with histology, imaging, and cardiovascular outcomes. METHODS: Two hundred nineteen carotid endarterectomy samples were procured from 120 patients. A sequential protein extraction protocol was employed in conjunction with multiplexed, discovery proteomics. To focus on extracellular proteins, parallel reaction monitoring was employed for targeted proteomics. Proteomic signatures were integrated with bulk, single-cell, and spatial RNA-sequencing data, and validated in 200 patients from the Athero-Express Biobank study. RESULTS: This extensive proteomics analysis identified plaque inflammation and calcification signatures, which were inversely correlated and validated using targeted proteomics. The inflammation signature was characterized by the presence of neutrophil-derived proteins, such as S100A8/9 (calprotectin) and myeloperoxidase, whereas the calcification signature included fetuin-A, osteopontin, and gamma-carboxylated proteins. The proteomics data also revealed sex differences in atherosclerosis, with large-aggregating proteoglycans versican and aggrecan being more abundant in females and exhibiting an inverse correlation with estradiol levels. The integration of RNA-sequencing data attributed the inflammation signature predominantly to neutrophils and macrophages, and the calcification and sex signatures to smooth muscle cells, except for certain plasma proteins that were not expressed but retained in plaques, such as fetuin-A. Dimensionality reduction and machine learning techniques were applied to identify 4 distinct plaque phenotypes based on proteomics data. A protein signature of 4 key proteins (calponin, protein C, serpin H1, and versican) predicted future cardiovascular mortality with an area under the curve of 75% and 67.5% in the discovery and validation cohort, respectively, surpassing the prognostic performance of imaging and histology. CONCLUSIONS: Plaque proteomics redefined clinically relevant patient groups with distinct outcomes, identifying subgroups of male and female patients with elevated risk of future cardiovascular events.
PXD039817	37648026	CREB-Regulated Transcriptional Coactivator 2 Proteome Landscape is Modulated by SREBF1. 	CREB regulated transcriptional coactivator 2 proteome landscape is plausibly modulated by SREBF1	CRTC2, PPI, SREBF1, glucose homeostasis, metabolic disorders	cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) regulated transcriptional coactivator 2 (CRTC2) is a critical transcription factor that maintains glucose homeostasis by activating CREB. Energy homeostasis is maintained through multiple pathways; therefore, CRTC2 may interact with other transcription factors, particularly under metabolic stress. CRTC2 liver-specific KO mice were created, and the global proteome, phosphoproteome, and acetylome from liver tissue under high-fat diet conditions were analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and bioinformatics analysis. Differentially regulated proteins (DRPs) were enriched in metabolic pathways, which were subsequently corroborated through animal experiments. The consensus DRPs from these datasets were used as seed proteins to generate a protein-protein interaction network using STRING, and GeneMANIA identified fatty acid synthase as a mutually relevant protein. In an additional local-protein-protein interaction analysis of CRTC2 and fatty acid synthase with DRPs, sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1) was the common mediator. CRTC2-CREB and SREBF1 are transcription factors, and DNA-binding motif analysis showed that multiple CRTC2-CREB-regulated genes possess SREBF1-binding motifs. This indicates the possible induction by the CRTC2-SREBF1 complex, which is validated through luciferase assay. Therefore, the CRTC2-SREBF1 complex potentially modulates the transcription of multiple proteins that fine-tune cellular metabolism under metabolic stress.
PXD040179	37648716	Peptidylarginine deiminase 2 plays a key role in osteogenesis by enhancing RUNX2 stability through citrullination. 	Peptidylarginine deiminase 2 (PADI2) is a key regulator for osteoblast differentiation and bone formation through the maintenance of citrullination-mediated RUNX2 stability	Citrullination, PADI2, PTM, Runx2	Peptidylarginine deiminase (PADI) 2 catalyzes the post-translational conversion of peptidyl-arginine to peptidyl-citrulline in a process called citrullination. However, the precise functions of PADI2 in bone formation and homeostasis remain unknown. In this study, our objective was to elucidate the function and regulatory mechanisms of PADI2 in bone formation employing global and osteoblast-specific Padi2 knockout mice. Our findings demonstrate that Padi2 deficiency leads to the loss of bone mass and results in a cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD) phenotype with delayed calvarial ossification and clavicular hypoplasia, due to impaired osteoblast differentiation. Mechanistically, Padi2 depletion significantly reduces RUNX2 levels, as PADI2-dependent stabilization of RUNX2 protected it from ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Furthermore, we discovered that PADI2 binds to RUNX2 and citrullinates it, and identified ten PADI2-induced citrullination sites on RUNX2 through high-resolution LC-MS/MS analysis. Among these ten citrullination sites, the R381 mutation in mouse RUNX2 isoform 1 considerably reduces RUNX2 levels, underscoring the critical role of citrullination at this residue in maintaining RUNX2 protein stability. In conclusion, these results indicate that PADI2 plays a distinct role in bone formation and osteoblast differentiation by safeguarding RUNX2 against proteasomal degradation. In addition, we demonstrate that the loss-of-function of PADI2 is associated with CCD, thereby providing a new target for the treatment of bone diseases.
PXD036909	37648771	Lateral interactions between CD276 and CD147 are essential for stemness in breast cancer: a novel insight from proximal proteome analysis. 	Lateral interactions between B7-H3 and CD147 are essential for stemness in breast cancer: a novel insight from proximal proteome analysis	Breast cancer, CD147, CD276, Cancer stem cells, Drug resistance, Lipid raft, Protein-protein interaction, Proximal proteome analysis	Oncogenic cell-surface membrane proteins contribute to the phenotypic and functional characteristics of cancer stem cells (CSCs). We employed a proximity-labeling proteomic approach to quantitatively analyze the cell-surface membrane proteins in close proximity to CD147 in CSCs. Furthermore, we compared CSCs to non-CSCs to identify CSC-specific cell-surface membrane proteins that are closely interact with CD147 and revealed that lateral interaction between CD147 and CD276 concealed within the lipid raft microdomain in CSCs, confers resistance to docetaxel, a commonly used chemotherapy agent for various cancer types, including metastatic breast cancer. Moreover, we investigated the clinical relevance of CD147 and CD276 co-expression in HER2+ breast cancer (BC) and triple-negative breast cancer patients who underwent chemotherapy. We observed poor disease-free survival and Overall survival rates in patients of CD147 and CD276 (p = 0.04 and 0.08, respectively). Subsequent immunohistochemical analysis in independent cohorts of HER2+ BC support for the association between co-expression of CD147 and CD276 and a poor response to chemotherapy. Collectively, our study suggests that the lateral interaction between CD147 and its proximal partners, such as CD276, may serve as a poor prognostic factor in BC and a predictive marker for the critical phenotypic determinant of BC stemness.
PXD034337	37648814	Frequent ZNF217 mutations lead to transcriptional deregulation of interferon signal transduction via altered chromatin accessibility in B cell lymphoma. 	Frequent ZNF217 mutations lead to transcriptional deregulation of interferon signal transduction via altered chromatin accessibility in B cell lymphoma (Global Proteome and PPI)	Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, PMBCL, ZNF217, copy-number aberration, genetics, mutation, precision medicine	Recent exome-wide studies discovered frequent somatic mutations in the epigenetic modifier ZNF217 in primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma (PMBCL) and related disorders. As functional consequences of ZNF217 alterations remain unknown, we comprehensively evaluated their impact in PMBCL. Targeted sequencing identified genetic lesions affecting ZNF217 in 33% of 157 PMBCL patients. Subsequent gene expression profiling (n = 120) revealed changes in cytokine and interferon signal transduction in ZNF217-aberrant PMBCL cases. In vitro, knockout of ZNF217 led to changes in chromatin accessibility interfering with binding motifs for crucial lymphoma-associated transcription factors. This led to disturbed expression of interferon-responsive and inflammation-associated genes, altered cell behavior, and aberrant differentiation. Mass spectrometry demonstrates that ZNF217 acts within a histone modifier complex containing LSD1, CoREST and HDAC and interferes with H3K4 methylation and H3K27 acetylation. Concluding, our data suggest non-catalytic activity of ZNF217, which directs histone modifier complex function and controls B cell differentiation-associated patterns of chromatin structure.
PXD037641	37649629	Membrane lipid and expression responses of Saccharolobus islandicus REY15A to acid and cold stress. 	S. islandicus REY15A pH/Temp stress	GDGT, archaea, lipid	Archaea adjust the number of cyclopentane rings in their glycerol dibiphytanyl glycerol tetraether (GDGT) membrane lipids as a homeostatic response to environmental stressors such as temperature, pH, and energy availability shifts. However, archaeal expression patterns that correspond with changes in GDGT composition are less understood. Here we characterize the acid and cold stress responses of the thermoacidophilic crenarchaeon Saccharolobus islandicus REY15A using growth rates, core GDGT lipid profiles, transcriptomics and proteomics. We show that both stressors result in impaired growth, lower average GDGT cyclization, and differences in gene and protein expression. Transcription data revealed differential expression of the GDGT ring synthase grsB in response to both acid stress and cold stress. Although the GDGT ring synthase encoded by grsB forms highly cyclized GDGTs with >=5 ring moieties, S. islandicus grsB upregulation under acidic pH conditions did not correspond with increased abundances of highly cyclized GDGTs. Our observations highlight the inability to predict GDGT changes from transcription data alone. Broader analysis of transcriptomic data revealed that S. islandicus differentially expresses many of the same transcripts in response to both acid and cold stress. These included upregulation of several biosynthetic pathways and downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation and motility. Transcript responses specific to either of the two stressors tested here included upregulation of genes related to proton pumping and molecular turnover in acid stress conditions and upregulation of transposases in cold stress conditions. Overall, our study provides a comprehensive understanding of the GDGT modifications and differential expression characteristic of the acid stress and cold stress responses in S. islandicus.
PXD035434	37650633	HapX-mediated H2B deub1 and SreA-mediated H2A.Z deposition coordinate in fungal iron resistance. 	Identification of FgSreA interactor	GFP	Plant pathogens are challenged by host-derived iron starvation or excess during infection, but the mechanism through which pathogens counteract iron stress is unclear. Here, we found that Fusarium graminearum encounters iron excess during the colonization of wheat heads. Deletion of heme activator protein X (FgHapX), siderophore transcription factor A (FgSreA) or both attenuated virulence. Further, we found that FgHapX activates iron storage under iron excess by promoting histone H2B deubiquitination (H2B deub1) at the promoter of the responsible gene. Meanwhile, FgSreA is shown to inhibit genes mediating iron acquisition during iron excess by facilitating the deposition of histone variant H2A.Z and histone 3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27 me3) at the first nucleosome after the transcription start site. In addition, the monothiol glutaredoxin FgGrx4 is responsible for iron sensing and control of the transcriptional activity of FgHapX and FgSreA via modulation of their enrichment at target genes and recruitment of epigenetic regulators, respectively. Taken together, our findings elucidated the molecular mechanisms for adaptation to iron excess mediated by FgHapX and FgSreA during infection in F. graminearum and provide novel insights into regulation of iron homeostasis at the chromatin level in eukaryotes.
PXD040158	37650653	DNA mimic foldamers affect chromatin composition and disturb cell cycle progression. 	DNA mimicking 32mer foldamers interfere with in vitro chromatin assembly in drosophila embryo extract	DNA mimcs, Drosophila embryo extract (DREX), Exploris 480, LC-MS, in vitro chromatin assembly	The use of synthetic chemicals to selectively interfere with chromatin and the chromatin-bound proteome represents a great opportunity for pharmacological intervention. Recently, synthetic foldamers that mimic the charge surface of double-stranded DNA have been shown to interfere with selected protein-DNA interactions. However, to better understand their pharmacological potential and to improve their specificity and selectivity, the effect of these molecules on complex chromatin needs to be investigated. We therefore systematically studied the influence of the DNA mimic foldamers on the chromatin-bound proteome using an in vitro chromatin assembly extract. Our studies show that the foldamer efficiently interferes with the chromatin-association of the origin recognition complex in vitro and in vivo, which leads to a disturbance of cell cycle in cells treated with foldamers. This effect is mediated by a strong direct interaction between the foldamers and the origin recognition complex and results in a failure of the complex to organise chromatin around replication origins. Foldamers that mimic double-stranded nucleic acids thus emerge as a powerful tool with designable features to alter chromatin assembly and selectively interfere with biological mechanisms.
PXD029837	37652240	Characterization of the major surface glycoconjugates of Trypanosoma theileri. 	Partial characterization of the glycoconjugates of  Trypanosoma theileri	GPI, Glycoconjugate, Glycoinositol-phospholipids, Mucin, Trypanosoma theileri, glycosylphosphatidylinositol	Trypanosoma theileri maintains a long-term extracellular infection with a low parasitaemia in bovids. The surface of this parasite is predicted to be decorated with several surface molecules including membrane surface proteases (MSPs), trans-sialidases and T. theileri putative surface proteins (TTPSPs). However, there are no experimental data to verify this hypothesis. Here, we have purified and partially characterized the surface glycoconjugates of T. theileri using biochemical and mass spectrometry-based approaches. The glycoconjugates fall into two classes: glycoproteins and glycolipids. Proteomic analysis of the glycoprotein fraction demonstrated the presence of MSPs and abundant mucin-like TTPSPs, with most predicted to be GPI-anchored. Mass spectrometric characterization of the glycolipid fraction showed that these are mannose- and galactose-containing glycoinositolphospholipids (GIPLs) that are larger and more diverse than those of its phylogenetic relative T. cruzi, containing up to 10 hexose residues and carrying either alkylacyl-phosphatidylinositol or inositol-phospho-ceramide (IPC) lipid components.
PXD032357	37653031	Elevated FBXL6 expression in hepatocytes activates VRK2-transketolase-ROS-mTOR-mediated immune evasion and liver cancer metastasis in mice. 	Comprehensive proteometics identifies FBXL6 substrates involved in liver cancer	FBXL6, HCC, mice	Metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most lethal malignancy and lacks effective treatment. FBXL6 is overexpressed in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but whether this change drives liver tumorigenesis and lung metastasis in vivo remains unknown. In this study, we aimed to identify FBXL6 (F-Box and Leucine Rich Repeat Protein 6) as a key driver of HCC metastasis and to provide a new paradigm for HCC therapy. We found that elevated FBXL6 expression in hepatocytes drove HCC lung metastasis and was a much stronger driver than Kras mutation (Kras(G12D/+);Alb-Cre), p53 haploinsufficiency (p53(+/-)) or Tsc1 loss (Tsc1(fl/fl);Alb-Cre). Mechanistically, VRK2 promoted Thr287 phosphorylation of TKT and then recruited FBXL6 to promote TKT ubiquitination and activation. Activated TKT further increased PD-L1 and VRK2 expression via the ROS-mTOR axis, leading to immune evasion and HCC metastasis. Targeting or knockdown of TKT significantly blocked FBXL6-driven immune evasion and HCC metastasis in vitro and in vivo. Notably, the level of active TKT (p-Thr287 TKT) was increased and was positively correlated with the FBXL6 and VRK2 expression levels in HCC patients. Our work provides novel mechanistic insights into FBXL6-driven HCC metastasis and suggests that targeting the TKT-ROS-mTOR-PD-L1/VRK2 axis is a new paradigm for treating patients with metastatic HCC with high FBXL6 expression.
PXD039649	37653169	Activity-based profiling of cullin-RING E3 networks by conformation-specific probes. 	Activity-based profiling of cullin-RING ligase networks by conformation-specific probes	E3, NEDD8, RING, cullin, ligase, ubiquitin	The cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) network comprises over 300 unique complexes that switch from inactive to activated conformations upon site-specific cullin modification by the ubiquitin-like protein NEDD8. Assessing cellular repertoires of activated CRL complexes is critical for understanding eukaryotic regulation. However, probes surveying networks controlled by site-specific ubiquitin-like protein modifications are lacking. We developed a synthetic antibody recognizing the active conformation of NEDD8-linked cullins. Implementing the probe to profile cellular networks of activated CUL1-, CUL2-, CUL3- and CUL4-containing E3s revealed the complexes responding to stimuli. Profiling several cell types showed their baseline neddylated CRL repertoires vary, and prime efficiency of targeted protein degradation. Our probe also unveiled differential rewiring of CRL networks across distinct primary cell activation pathways. Thus, conformation-specific probes can permit nonenzymatic activity-based profiling across a system of numerous multiprotein complexes, which in the case of neddylated CRLs reveals widespread regulation and could facilitate the development of degrader drugs.
PXD041989	37653896	Characterization and Differentiation of Grain Proteomes from Wild-Type Puroindoline and Variants in Wheat. 	grain proteomes from wild-type puroindoline and variants in wheat	hardness, puroindoline genotype, wheat	Premium wheat with a high end-use quality is generally lacking in China, especially high-quality hard and soft wheat. Pina-D1 and Pinb-D1 (puroindoline genes) influence wheat grain hardness (i.e., important wheat quality-related parameter) and are among the main targets in wheat breeding programs. However, the mechanism by which puroindoline genes control grain hardness remains unclear. In this study, three hard wheat puroindoline variants (MY26, GX3, and ZM1) were compared with a soft wheat variety (CM605) containing the wild-type puroindoline genotype. Specifically, proteomic methods were used to screen for differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). In total, 6253 proteins were identified and quantified via a high-throughput tandem mass tag quantitative proteomic analysis. Of the 208 DAPs, 115, 116, and 99 proteins were differentially expressed between MY26, GX3, and ZM1 (hard wheat varieties) and CM605, respectively. The cluster analysis of protein relative abundances divided the proteins into six clusters. Of these proteins, 67 and 41 proteins were, respectively, more and less abundant in CM605 than in MY26, GX3, and ZM1. Enrichment analyses detected six GO terms, five KEGG pathways, and five IPR terms that were shared by all three comparisons. Furthermore, 12 proteins associated with these terms or pathways were found to be differentially expressed in each comparison. These proteins, which included cysteine proteinase inhibitors, invertases, low-molecular-weight glutenin subunits, and alpha amylase inhibitors, may be involved in the regulation of grain hardness. The candidate genes identified in this study may be relevant for future analyses of the regulatory mechanism underlying grain hardness.
PXD043629	37654507	Discovery of cisplatin-binding proteins by competitive cysteinome profiling. 	Discovery of Cisplatin-binding Proteins by Competitive Cysteinome Profiling	Cisplatin-binding sites	Cisplatin is a widely used cancer metallodrug that induces cytotoxicity by targeting DNA and chelating cysteines in proteins. Here we applied a competitive activity-based protein profiling strategy to identify cisplatin-binding cysteines in cancer proteomes. A novel cisplatin target, MetAP1, was identified and functionally validated to contribute to cisplatin's cytotoxicity.
PXD041839	37654613	Combined proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of the antimicrobial mechanism of tannic acid against Staphylococcus aureus. 	Proteomics of Staphylococcus aureus	S. aureus, Tannic acid, punicalagin	Staphylococcus aureus is a zoonotic opportunistic pathogen that represents a significant threat to public health. Previous studies have shown that tannic acid (TA) has an inhibitory effect on a variety of bacteria. In this study, the proteome and transcriptome of S. aureus were analyzed to comprehensively assess changes in genes and proteins induced by TA. Initial observations of morphological changes revealed that TA damaged the integrity of the cell membrane. Next, proteomic and genetic analyses showed that exposure to TA altered the expression levels of 651 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs, 283 upregulated and 368 downregulated) and 503 differentially expressed genes (DEGs, 191 upregulated and 312 downregulated). Analysis of the identified DEPs and DEGs suggested that TA damages the integrity of the cell envelope by decreasing the expression and protein abundance of enzymes involved in the synthesis of peptidoglycans, teichoic acids and fatty acids, such as murB, murQ, murG, fmhX and tagA. After treatment with TA, the assembly of ribosomes in S. aureus was severely impaired by significant reductions in available ribosome components, and thus protein synthesis was hindered. The levels of genes and proteins associated with amino acids and purine synthesis were remarkably decreased, which further reduced bacterial viability. In addition, ABC transporters, which are involved in amino acid and ion transport, were also badly affected. Our results reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of TA on S. aureus and provide a theoretical basis for the application of TA as an antibacterial chemotherapeutic agent.
PXD035773	37656187	Integrative multi-omics reveals two biologically distinct groups of pilocytic astrocytoma. 	Proteogenomics reveals two distinct biological pilocytic astrocytoma subgroups	Pilocytic Astrocytoma, brain tumour	Pilocytic astrocytoma (PA), the most common pediatric brain tumor, is driven by aberrant mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling most commonly caused by BRAF gene fusions or activating mutations. While 5-year overall survival rates exceed 95%, tumor recurrence or progression constitutes a major clinical challenge in incompletely resected tumors. Here, we used similarity network fusion (SNF) analysis in an integrative multi-omics approach employing RNA transcriptomic and mass spectrometry-based proteomic profiling to molecularly characterize PA tissue samples from 62 patients. Thereby, we uncovered that PAs segregated into two molecularly distinct groups, namely, Group 1 and Group 2, which were validated in three non-overlapping cohorts. Patients with Group 1 tumors were significantly younger and showed worse progression-free survival compared to patients with group 2 tumors. Ingenuity pathways analysis (IPA) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) revealed that Group 1 tumors were enriched for immune response pathways, such as interferon signaling, while Group 2 tumors showed enrichment for action potential and neurotransmitter signaling pathways. Analysis of immune cell-related gene signatures showed an enrichment of infiltrating T Cells in Group 1 versus Group 2 tumors. Taken together, integrative multi-omics of PA identified biologically distinct and prognostically relevant tumor groups that may improve risk stratification of this single pathway driven tumor type.
PXD039102	37656377	Cerebrospinal fluid exosomal protein alterations via proteomic analysis of NSCLC with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. 	Proteomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid exosomes derived from non-small cell lung cancer related leptomeningeal carcinomatosis	cerebrospinal fluid, exosome, leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, lung cancer	PURPOSE: Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis (LC) is a rare complication of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with highly mortality. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as a special kind of tumor microenvironment (TME) better represents alterations than plasma. However, the clinical value of protein profiles of exosome in CSF as liquid biopsy remains unclear. METHODS: In this study, CSF samples of NSCLC patients with (LC group) or without (NSCLC group) LC were collected and compared to patients without tumors (normal group). CSF exosomes were isolated by ultracentrifugation and protein profiles were performed by label-free proteomics. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were detected by bioinformatics tools and verified by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). RESULTS: A total of 814 proteins were detected. Bioinformatics analysis revealed their shared function in the complement activation, extracellular region, and complement and coagulation cascades. Between LC and NSCLC group, 72 DEPs were found among which FN1 demonstrated the highest betweenness centrality (BC) after protein-protein interaction network analysis. CONCLUSION: We investigated the application of label free and PRM based proteomics to detect key proteins related to LC. FN1 may serve as potential indicator to classify LC and NSCLC. Extracellular matrix (ECM) and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) are important in the process of LC. These data is promising for early prediction and diagnosis of LC.
PXD039375	37656786	MAVI1, an endoplasmic reticulum-localized microprotein, suppresses antiviral innate immune response by targeting MAVS on mitochondrion. 	MAVI1, an Endoplasmic Reticulum-localized Microprotein, Suppresses Antiviral Innate Immune Response by Targeting MAVS on Mitochondrion	MAVI1, MAVS, Mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum	Pattern recognition receptor-mediated innate immunity is critical for host defense against viruses. A growing number of coding and noncoding genes are found to encode microproteins. However, the landscape and functions of microproteins in responsive to virus infection remain uncharacterized. Here, we systematically identified microproteins that are responsive to vesicular stomatitis virus infection. A conserved and endoplasmic reticulum-localized membrane microprotein, MAVI1 (microprotein in antiviral immunity 1), was found to interact with mitochondrion-localized MAVS protein and inhibit MAVS aggregation and type I interferon signaling activation. The importance of MAVI1 was highlighted that viral infection was attenuated and survival rate was increased in Mavi1-knockout mice. A peptide inhibitor targeting the interaction between MAVI1 and MAVS activated the type I interferon signaling to defend viral infection. Our findings uncovered that microproteins play critical roles in regulating antiviral innate immune responses, and targeting microproteins might represent a therapeutic avenue for treating viral infection.
PXD040788	37657774	Automated Sample Preparation Workflow for Tandem Mass Tag-Based Proteomics. 	Automated sample preparation workflow for tandem mass tag-based proteomics	Automation, Tandem Mass Tags	Although tandem mass tag (TMT)-based isobaric labeling has become a powerful approach for multiplexed protein quantitation, automating the workflow for this technique has not been easy to achieve for widespread adoption. This is because preparation of TMT-labeled peptide samples involves multiple steps ranging from protein extraction, denaturation, reduction, and alkylation to tryptic digestion, desalting, labeling, and cleanup, all of which require a high level of proficiency. The variability resulting from multiple processing steps is inherently problematic, especially with large-scale clinical studies that involve hundreds of samples where reproducibility is critical for quantitation. Here, we sought to compare the performance of a recently introduced platform, AccelerOme, for an automated proteomic workflow employing TMT labeling with the manual processing of samples. Cell pellets were prepared and subjected to a 16-plex experiment using an automated platform and a conventional manual protocol. Single-shot liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry analysis revealed a higher number of proteins and peptides identified using the automated platform. Efficiency of tryptic digestion, alkylation, and TMT labeling were similar in both manual and automated processes. In addition, comparison of quantitation accuracy and precision showed similar performance in an automated workflow compared to manual sample preparation by an expert. Overall, we demonstrated that the automated platform performs at a level similar to a manual process performed by an expert for TMT-based proteomics. We anticipate that this automated workflow will increasingly replace manual pipelines and has the potential to be applied to large-scale TMT-based studies, providing robust results and high sample throughput.
PXD040388	37658225	CD31 defines a subpopulation of human adipose-derived regenerative cells with potent angiogenic effects. 	CD31 defines a subpopulation of human adipose-derived regenerative cells with potent angiogenic properties	CD31, regenerative cells	Cellular heterogeneity represents a major challenge for regenerative treatment using freshly isolated Adipose Derived Regenerative Cells (ADRCs). Emerging data suggest superior efficacy of ADRCs as compared to the ex vivo expanded and more homogeneous ADRCs (= ASCs) for indications involving (micro)vascular deficiency, however, it remains unknown which ADRC cell subtypes account for the improvement. Surprisingly, we found regarding erectile dysfunction (ED) that the number of injected CD31+  ADRCs correlated positively with erectile function 12 months after one bolus of autologous ADRCs. Comprehensive in vitro and ex vivo analyses confirmed superior pro-angiogenic and paracrine effects of human CD31+ enriched ADRCs compared to the corresponding CD31- and parent ADRCs. When CD31+, CD31- and ADRCs were co-cultured in aortic ring- and corpus cavernous tube formation assays, the CD31+  ADRCs induced significantly higher tube development. This effect was corroborated using conditioned medium (CM), while quantitative mass spectrometric analysis suggested that this is likely explained by secretory pro-angiogenic proteins including DKK3, ANGPT2, ANAX2 and VIM, all enriched in CD31+  ADRC CM. Single-cell RNA sequencing showed that transcripts of the upregulated and secreted proteins were present in 9 endothelial ADRC subsets including endothelial progenitor cells in the heterogenous non-cultured ADRCs. Our data suggest that the vascular benefit of using ADRCs in regenerative medicine is dictated by CD31+  ADRCs.
PXD035534	37660066	Comparative mucomic analysis of three functionally distinct Cornu aspersum Secretions. 	Cornu aspersum Comparative Mucomics LC-MSMS	Cornu aspersum, Garden Snail, adhesive, lubricating, mucus, protective	Every animal secretes mucus, placing them among the most diverse biological materials. Mucus hydrogels are complex mixtures of water, ions, carbohydrates, and proteins. Uncertainty surrounding their composition and how interactions between components contribute to mucus function complicates efforts to exploit their properties. There is substantial interest in commercializing mucus from the garden snail, Cornu aspersum, for skincare, drug delivery, tissue engineering, and composite materials. C. aspersum secretes three mucus-one shielding the animal from environmental threats, one adhesive mucus from the pedal surface of the foot, and another pedal mucus that is lubricating. It remains a mystery how compositional differences account for their substantially different properties. Here, we characterize mucus proteins, glycosylation, ion content, and mechanical properties that could be used to provide insight into structure-function relationships through an integrative "mucomics" approach. We identify macromolecular components of these hydrogels, including a previously unreported protein class termed Conserved Anterior Mollusk Proteins (CAMPs). Revealing differences between C. aspersum mucus shows how considering structure at all levels can inform the design of mucus-inspired materials.
PXD041112	37660174	Theranostic imaging and multimodal photodynamic therapy and immunotherapy using the mTOR signaling pathway. 	Human hepatocellular carcinoma Orbitrap-LC-MS-HZ	LC-MS, hepatocellular carcinoma	Tumor metastases are considered the leading cause of cancer-associated deaths. While clinically applied drugs have demonstrated to efficiently remove the primary tumor, metastases remain poorly accessible. To overcome this limitation, herein, the development of a theranostic nanomaterial by incorporating a chromophore for imaging and a photosensitizer for treatment of metastatic tumor sites is presented. The mechanism of action reveals that the nanoparticles are able to intervene by local generation of cellular damage through photodynamic therapy as well as by systemic induction of an immune response by immunotherapy upon inhibition of the mTOR signaling pathway which is of crucial importance for tumor onset, progression and metastatic spreading. The nanomaterial is able to strongly reduce the volume of the primary tumor as well as eradicates tumor metastases in a metastatic breast cancer and a multi-drug resistant patient-derived hepatocellular carcinoma models in female mice.
PXD036009	37660182	N7-methylguanosine methylation of tRNAs regulates survival to stress in cancer. 	N7-methylguanosine methylation of tRNAs regulates survival to stress in cancer	7-methylguanosine, Epitranscriptome, autophagy, cytotoxic stress, prostate cancer, senescence, survival, synthetic lethality., tRNA fragments	Tumour progression and therapy tolerance are highly regulated and complex processes largely dependent on the plasticity of cancer cells and their capacity to respond to stress. The higher plasticity of cancer cells highlights the need for identifying targetable molecular pathways that challenge cancer cell survival. Here, we show that N(7)-guanosine methylation (m(7)G) of tRNAs, mediated by METTL1, regulates survival to stress conditions in cancer cells. Mechanistically, we find that m(7)G in tRNAs protects them from stress-induced cleavage and processing into 5' tRNA fragments. Our analyses reveal that the loss of tRNA m(7)G methylation activates stress response pathways, sensitising cancer cells to stress. Furthermore, we find that the loss of METTL1 reduces tumour growth and increases cytotoxic stress in vivo. Our study uncovers the role of m(7)G methylation of tRNAs in stress responses and highlights the potential of targeting METTL1 to sensitise cancer cells to chemotherapy.
PXD032346	37660922	CLPX regulates mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation in liver cells. 	Identification of CLPX binding proteins in FT293 cells	FLAG-IP, FT293 cells	Mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation (beta-oxidation) is an essential metabolic process for energy production in eukaryotic cells, but the regulatory mechanisms of this pathway are largely unknown. In the present study, we found that several enzymes involved in beta-oxidation are associated with CLPX, the AAA+ unfoldase that is a component of the mitochondrial matrix protease ClpXP. The suppression of CLPX expression increased beta-oxidation activity in the HepG2 cell line and in primary human hepatocytes without glucagon treatment. However, the protein levels of enzymes involved in beta-oxidation did not significantly increase in CLPX-deleted HepG2 cells (CLPX-KO cells). Coimmunoprecipitation experiments revealed that the protein level in the immunoprecipitates of each antibody changed after the treatment of WT cells with glucagon, and a part of these changes was also observed in the comparison of WT and CLPX-KO cells without glucagon treatment. Although the exogenous expression of WT or ATP-hydrolysis mutant CLPX suppressed beta-oxidation activity in CLPX-KO cells, glucagon treatment induced beta-oxidation activity only in CLPX-KO cells expressing WT CLPX. These results suggest that the dissociation of CLPX from its target proteins is essential for the induction of beta-oxidation in HepG2 cells. Moreover, specific phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase and a decrease in the expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase 2 were observed in CLPX-KO cells, suggesting that CLPX might participate in the regulation of the cytosolic signaling pathway for beta-oxidation. The mechanism for AMP-activated protein kinase phosphorylation remains elusive; however, our results uncovered the hitherto unknown role of CLPX in mitochondrial beta-oxidation in human liver cells.
PXD015374	37662165	Candidate pathogenicity factor/effector proteins of 'Candidatus Phytoplasma solani' modulate plant carbohydrate metabolism, accelerate the ascorbate-glutathione cycle, and induce autophagosomes. 	Functional analysis of phytoplasma effectors in Vitis vinifera pathogenesis	Nicotiana benthamiana, Vitis vinifera, pathogenesis, phytoplasma effectors. Yellow Fluorescent Protein (YFP)	The pathogenicity of intracellular plant pathogenic bacteria is associated with the action of pathogenicity factors/effectors, but their physiological roles for most phytoplasma species, including 'Candidiatus Phytoplasma solani' are unknown. Six putative pathogenicity factors/effectors from six different strains of 'Ca. P. solani' were selected by bioinformatic analysis. The way in which they manipulate the host cellular machinery was elucidated by analyzing Nicotiana benthamiana leaves after Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation with the pathogenicity factor/effector constructs using confocal microscopy, pull-down, and co-immunoprecipitation, and enzyme assays. Candidate pathogenicity factors/effectors were shown to modulate plant carbohydrate metabolism and the ascorbate-glutathione cycle and to induce autophagosomes. PoStoSP06, PoStoSP13, and PoStoSP28 were localized in the nucleus and cytosol. The most active effector in the processes studied was PoStoSP06. PoStoSP18 was associated with an increase in phosphoglucomutase activity, whereas PoStoSP28, previously annotated as an antigenic membrane protein StAMP, specifically interacted with phosphoglucomutase. PoStoSP04 induced only the ascorbate-glutathione cycle along with other pathogenicity factors/effectors. Candidate pathogenicity factors/effectors were involved in reprogramming host carbohydrate metabolism in favor of phytoplasma own growth and infection. They were specifically associated with three distinct metabolic pathways leading to fructose-6-phosphate as an input substrate for glycolysis. The possible significance of autophagosome induction by PoStoSP28 is discussed.
PXD049215	37662281	Allosteric activation of the co-receptor BAK1 by the EFR receptor kinase initiates immune signaling. 	Allosteric activation of the co-receptor BAK1 by the EFR receptor kinase initiates immune signaling	EFR, HDX-MS, receptor kinase	Transmembrane signaling by plant receptor kinases (RKs) has long been thought to involve reciprocal trans-phosphorylation of their intracellular kinase domains. The fact that many of these are pseudokinase domains, however, suggests that additional mechanisms must govern RK signaling activation. Non-catalytic (pseudo)kinase signaling mechanisms have been described in metazoans, but information is scarce for plants. Recently, a non-catalytic function was reported for the leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-RK subfamily XIIa member EFR (ELONGATION FACTOR TU RECEPTOR) and phosphorylation-dependent conformational changes were proposed to regulate signaling of RKs with non-RD kinase domains. Here, using EFR as a model, we describe a non-catalytic activation mechanism for LRR-RKs with non-RD kinase domains. EFR is an active kinase, but a kinase-dead variant retains the ability to enhance catalytic activity of its co-receptor kinase BAK1/SERK3 (BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1-ASSOCIATED KINASE 1/SOMATIC EMBRYOGENESIS RECEPTOR KINASE 3). Applying hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) analysis and designing homology-based intragenic suppressor mutations, we provide evidence that the EFR kinase domain must adopt its active conformation in order to activate BAK1 allosterically, likely by supporting alphaC-helix positioning in BAK1. Our results suggest a conformational toggle model for signaling, in which BAK1 first phosphorylates EFR in the activation loop to stabilize its active conformation, allowing EFR in turn to allosterically activate BAK1.
PXD045437	37662402	Neither alpha-synuclein-preformed fibrils derived from patients with GBA1 mutations nor the host murine genotype significantly influence seeding efficacy in the mouse olfactory bulb. 	Does alpha synuclein strain or GCase enzyme activity drive clinical aggression in GBA-PD?	GBA1, biotinylation by antibody recognition, parkinsons disease, preformed fibrils	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive motor symptoms and alpha-synuclein (alphasyn) aggregation in the nervous system. For unclear reasons, PD patients with certain GBA mutations (GBA-PD) have a more aggressive clinical progression. Two testable hypotheses that can potentially account for this phenomenon are that GBA1 mutations promote alphasyn spread or drive the generation of highly pathogenic alphasyn polymorphs (i.e., strains). We tested these hypotheses by treating homozygous GBA1 D409V knockin (KI) mice with human alpha-syn-preformed fibrils (PFFs) and treating wild-type mice (WT) with several alphasyn-PFF polymorphs amplified from brain autopsy samples collected from patients with idiopathic PD and GBA-PD patients with either homozygous or heterozygous GBA1 mutations. Robust phosphorylated-alphasyn (PSER129) positive pathology was observed at the injection site (i.e., the olfactory bulb granular layer) and throughout the brain six months following PFF injection. The PFF seeding efficiency and degree of spread were similar regardless of the mouse genotype or PFF polymorphs. We found that PFFs amplified from the human brain, regardless of patient genotype, were generally more effective seeders than wholly synthetic PFFs (i.e., non-amplified); however, PFF concentration differed between these two studies, and this might also account for the observed differences. To investigate whether the molecular composition of pathology differed between different seeding conditions, we permed Biotinylation by Antibody Recognition on PSER129 (BAR-PSER129). We found that for BAR-PSER129, the endogenous PSER129 pool dominated identified interactions, and thus, very few potential interactions were explicitly identified for seeded pathology. However, we found Dctn2 interaction was shared across all PFF conditions, and Nckap1 and Ap3b2 were unique to PFFs amplified from GBA-PD brains of heterozygous mutation carriers. In conclusion, both the genotype and alphasyn strain had little effect on overall seeding efficacy and global PSER129-interactions.
PXD042951	37662420	Post-ischemic ubiquitination at the postsynaptic density reversibly influences the activity of ischemia-relevant kinases. 	Post-ischemic ubiquitination at the postsynaptic density reversibly influences the activity of ischemia-relevant kinases.	Brain, Cerebral cortex, Detergent-insoluble, Ischemic stroke, Phospho-proteomics, Ubiquitin-enrichment, nanoLC-MS/MS	Ubiquitin modifications alter protein function and stability, thereby regulating cell homeostasis and viability, particularly under stress. Ischemic stroke induces protein ubiquitination at the ischemic periphery, wherein cells remain viable, however the identity of ubiquitinated proteins is unknown. Here, we employed a proteomics approach to identify these proteins in mice undergoing ischemic stroke. The data are available in a searchable web interface ( https://hochrainerlab.shinyapps.io/StrokeUbiOmics/ ). We detected increased ubiquitination of 198 proteins, many of which localize to the postsynaptic density (PSD) of glutamatergic neurons. Among these were proteins essential for maintaining PSD architecture, such as PSD95, as well as NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits. The largest enzymatic group at the PSD with elevated post-ischemic ubiquitination were kinases, such as CaMKII, PKC, Cdk5, and Pyk2, whose aberrant activities are well-known to contribute to post-ischemic neuronal death. Concurrent phospho-proteomics revealed altered PSD-associated phosphorylation patterns, indicative of modified kinase activities following stroke. PSD-located CaMKII, PKC, and Cdk5 activities were decreased while Pyk2 activity was increased after stroke. Removal of ubiquitin restored kinase activities to pre-stroke levels, identifying ubiquitination as the responsible molecular mechanism for post-ischemic kinase regulation. These findings unveil a previously unrecognized role of ubiquitination in the regulation of essential kinases involved in ischemic injury.
PXD044500	37662928	Integrated transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics-based analysis uncover TAM2-associated glycolysis and pyruvate metabolic remodeling in pancreatic cancer. 	Pancreatic cancer-associated proteome sequencing	Pancreatic cancer, normal pancreatic tissue	Introduction: Tumor-associated macrophage 2 (TAM2) abundantly infiltrates pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PAAD), and its interaction with malignant cells is involved in the regulation of tumor metabolism. In this study, we explored the metabolic heterogeneity involved in TAM2 by constructing TAM2-associated metabolic subtypes in PAAD. Materials and methods: PAAD samples were classified into molecular subtypes with different metabolic characteristics based on a multi-omics analysis strategy. 20 PAAD tissues and 10 normal pancreatic tissues were collected for proteomic and metabolomic analyses. RNA sequencing data from the TCGA-PAAD cohort were used for transcriptomic analyses. Immunohistochemistry was used to assess TAM2 infiltration in PAAD tissues. Results: The results of transcriptomics and immunohistochemistry showed that TAM2 infiltration levels were upregulated in PAAD and were associated with poor patient prognosis. The results of proteomics and metabolomics indicated that multiple metabolic processes were aberrantly regulated in PAAD and that this dysregulation was linked to the level of TAM2 infiltration. WGCNA confirmed pyruvate and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis as co-expressed metabolic pathways of TAM2 in PAAD. Based on transcriptomic data, we classified the PAAD samples into four TAM2-associated metabolic subtypes (quiescent, pyruvate, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and mixed). Metabolic subtypes were each characterized in terms of clinical prognosis, tumor microenvironment, immune cell infiltration, chemotherapeutic drug sensitivity, and functional mechanisms. Conclusion: Our study confirmed that the metabolic remodeling of pyruvate and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis in PAAD was closely related to TAM2. Molecular subtypes based on TAM2-associated metabolic pathways provided new insights into prognosis prediction and therapy for PAAD patients.
PXD043697	37663883	Proteomic Analysis of Two Different Methods to Induce Skin Melanin Deposition Models in Guinea Pigs. 	Proteomics analysis of guinea pig skin in melanin deposition model	Ultraviolet, melanin deposition, melasma, progesterone, skin melanin	Objective: In this study, we analyzed the differential expression and key signaling pathways of proteins in the skin of guinea pigs with melanin deposition caused by two different modeling methods by utilizing proteomics techniques. Methods: Guinea pig skin melanin deposition models were: (1) induced by ultraviolet (UV) irradiation alone (U group), (2) induced by UV combined with progesterone injection (P group), and guinea pigs treated without any treatment were used as blank group (B group). H&E staining and Masson staining were used to observe the extent of skin damage and melanin deposition in guinea pigs. The differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the skin tissues of melanin-deposited guinea pigs were screened by proteomic techniques, the functions of DEPs were analyzed, and a protein-protein interaction network (PPI) was constructed. Results: There was a significant difference in grayscale between the U and P groups of guinea pig skin before and after modeling (P < 0.01). H&E and Masson staining showed that the U and P groups both exhibited incomplete keratinization of the stratum corneum, increased proliferation of epidermal cells with large nuclei and disordered arrangement, neovascularization of the dermis, and increased the number of melanin particles in the epidermis of the U and P groups of guinea pigs compared with the B group. Proteomics analysis showed that there were 171 DEPs between the U and P groups. These DEPs focused on biological processes such as fibrillar collagen trimer, extracellular matrix containing collagen proteins, metalloproteinase activity, and peroxidase activity. Conclusion: The melanin pigmentation model induced solely by UV radiation negatively regulates biological processes such as extracellular matrix and collagen synthesis, while inducing significant skin photoaging. The combination of progesterone injections and UV radiation-induced melanin pigmentation model can cause abnormal protein expression in fatty acid and phospholipid metabolism, possibly being closer to the environment of melasma formation.
PXD042045	37664457	Proteomics and disease network associations evaluation of environmentally relevant Bisphenol A concentrations in a human 3D neural stem cell model. 	The assessment of hiPSC-derived Neural Stem Cells after a repeated-dose bisphenol A exposure	Bisphenol A, DoHAD, human-induced pluripotent stem cells, neural stem cells, new approach methodology	Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure is associated with a plethora of neurodevelopmental abnormalities and brain disorders. Previous studies have demonstrated BPA-induced perturbations to critical neural stem cell (NSC) characteristics, such as proliferation and differentiation, although the underlying molecular mechanisms remain under debate. The present study evaluated the effects of a repeated-dose exposure of environmentally relevant BPA concentrations during the in vitro 3D neural induction of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), emulating a chronic exposure scenario. Firstly, we demonstrated that our model is suitable for NSC differentiation during the early stages of embryonic brain development. Our morphological image analysis showed that BPA exposure at 0.01, 0.1 and 1 microM decreased the average spheroid size by day 21 (D21) of the neural induction, while no effect on cell viability was detected. No alteration to the rate of the neural induction was observed based on the expression of key neural lineage and neuroectodermal transcripts. Quantitative proteomics at D21 revealed several differentially abundant proteins across all BPA-treated groups with important functions in NSC proliferation and maintenance (e.g., FABP7, GPC4, GAP43, Wnt-8B, TPPP3). Additionally, a network analysis demonstrated alterations to the glycolytic pathway, potentially implicating BPA-induced changes to glycolytic signalling in NSC proliferation impairments, as well as the pathophysiology of brain disorders including intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorders, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This study enhances the current understanding of BPA-related NSC aberrations based mostly on acute, often high dose exposures of rodent in vivo and in vitro models and human GWAS data in a novel human 3D cell-based model with real-life scenario relevant prolonged and low-level exposures, offering further mechanistic insights into the ramifications of BPA exposure on the developing human brain and consequently, later life neurological disorders.
PXD042781	37666982	Quantitative assessment of near-infrared fluorescent proteins. 	HEK cells expressing miRFP680-P2A-GFP, emiRFP670-P2A-GFP, emiRFP703-P2A-GFP, miRFP713-P2A-GFP and miRFP720-P2A-GFP	fluorescent proteins	Recent progress in fluorescent protein development has generated a large diversity of near-infrared fluorescent proteins (NIR FPs), which are rapidly becoming popular probes for a variety of imaging applications. However, the diversity of NIR FPs poses a challenge for end-users in choosing the optimal one for a given application. Here we conducted a systematic and quantitative assessment of intracellular brightness, photostability, oligomeric state, chemical stability and cytotoxicity of 22 NIR FPs in cultured mammalian cells and primary mouse neurons and identified a set of top-performing FPs including emiRFP670, miRFP680, miRFP713 and miRFP720, which can cover a majority of imaging applications. The top-performing proteins were further validated for in vivo imaging of neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans, zebrafish, and mice as well as in mice liver. We also assessed the applicability of the selected NIR FPs for multicolor imaging of fusions, expansion microscopy and two-photon imaging.
PXD041684	37667030	Identification of the bacteriophage nucleus protein interaction network. 	Identification of the bacteriophage nucleus protein interaction network	Phage, Phage Nucleus, miniTurboID	In the arms race between bacteria and bacteriophages (phages), some large-genome jumbo phages have evolved a protein shell that encloses their replicating genome to protect it against host immune factors. By segregating the genome from the host cytoplasm, however, the 'phage nucleus' introduces the need to specifically translocate messenger RNA and proteins through the nuclear shell and to dock capsids on the shell for genome packaging. Here, we use proximity labeling and localization mapping to systematically identify proteins associated with the major nuclear shell protein chimallin (ChmA) and other distinctive structures assembled by these phages. We identify six uncharacterized nuclear-shell-associated proteins, one of which directly interacts with self-assembled ChmA. The structure and protein-protein interaction network of this protein, which we term ChmB, suggest that it forms pores in the ChmA lattice that serve as docking sites for capsid genome packaging and may also participate in messenger RNA and/or protein translocation.
PXD041640	37667671	Characterization of site-specific N-glycosylation signatures of isolated uromodulin from human urine. 	Characterization of kidney-specific and site-specific N-glycosylation signatures of isolated uromodulin from human urine	Umod	Uromodulin (Umod, Tamm-Horsfall protein) is the most abundant urinary N-glycoprotein produced exclusively by the kidney. It can form filaments to antagonize the adhesion of uropathogens. However, the site-specific N-glycosylation signatures of Umod in healthy individuals and patients with IgA nephropathy (IgAN) remain poorly understood due to the lack of suitable isolation and analytical methods. In this study, we first presented a simple and fast method based on diatomaceous earth adsorption to isolate Umod. These isolated glycoproteins were digested by trypsin and/or Glu-C. Intact N-glycopeptides with or without HILIC enrichment were analyzed using our developed EThcD-sceHCD-MS/MS. Based on the optimized workflow, we identified a total of 780 unique intact N-glycopeptides (7 N-glycosites and 152 N-glycan compositions) from healthy individuals. As anticipated, these glycosites exhibited glycoform heterogeneity. Almost all N-glycosites were modified completely by the complex type, except for one N-glycosite (N275), which was nearly entirely occupied by the high-mannose type for mediating Umod's antiadhesive activity. Then, we compared the N-glycosylation of Umod between healthy controls (n = 9) and IgAN patients (n = 9). The N-glycosylation of Umod in IgAN patients will drastically decrease and be lost. Finally, we profiled the most comprehensive site-specific N-glycosylation map of Umod and revealed its alterations in IgAN patients. Our method provides a high-throughput workflow for characterizing the N-glycosylation of Umod, which can aid in understanding its roles in physiology and pathology, as well as serving as a potential diagnostic tool for evolution of renal tubular function.
PXD044740	37669107	Overcoming lung cancer immunotherapy resistance by combining nontoxic variants of IL-12 and IL-2. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of IL-2 MSA and IL-12 MSA combination on T cell signaling	Cytokine, Signaling, T cell	Engineered cytokine-based approaches for immunotherapy of cancer are poised to enter the clinic, with IL-12 being at the forefront. However, little is known about potential mechanisms of resistance to cytokine therapies. We found that orthotopic murine lung tumors were resistant to systemically delivered IL-12 fused to murine serum albumin (MSA, IL12-MSA) because of low IL-12 receptor (IL-12R) expression on tumor-reactive CD8+ T cells. IL2-MSA increased binding of IL12-MSA by tumor-reactive CD8+ T cells, and combined administration of IL12-MSA and IL2-MSA led to enhanced tumor-reactive CD8+ T cell effector differentiation, decreased numbers of tumor-infiltrating CD4+ regulatory T cells, and increased survival of lung tumor-bearing mice. Predictably, the combination of IL-2 and IL-12 at therapeutic doses led to significant dose-limiting toxicity. Administering IL-12 and IL-2 analogs with preferential binding to cells expressing Il12rb1 and CD25, respectively, led to a significant extension of survival in mice with lung tumors while abrogating dose-limiting toxicity. These findings suggest that IL-12 and IL-2 represent a rational approach to combination cytokine therapy whose dose-limiting toxicity can be overcome with engineered cytokine variants.
PXD018765	37670049	Proteomic and functional characterisation of extracellular vesicles from collagen VI deficient human fibroblasts reveals a role in cell motility. 	Proteomic analysis of Collagen-VI-deficient fibroblasts	fibroblasts	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key mediators of cell-to-cell communication. Their content reflects the state of diseased cells representing a window into disease progression. Collagen-VI Related Muscular Dystrophy (COL6-RD) is a multi-systemic disease involving different cell types. The role of EVs in this disease has not been explored. We compared by quantitative proteomics the protein cargo of EVs released from fibroblasts from patients with COL6-RD and controls. Isolated EVs contained a significant proportion of the most frequently reported proteins in EVs according to Exocarta and Vesiclepedia. We identified 67 differentially abundant proteins associated with vesicle transport and exocytosis, actin remodelling and the cytoskeleton, hemostasis and oxidative stress. Treatment of control fibroblasts with EVs from either patient or healthy fibroblasts altered significantly the motility of cells on a cell migration assay highlighting the functional relevance of EVs. In parallel, we analysed the secretome from the same cells and found a distinctly different set of 48 differentially abundant proteins related to extracellular matrix organisation and remodelling, growth factor response, RNA metabolism and the proteasome. The EVs and secretome sets of proteins only shared two identifiers indicating that the sorting of proteins towards EVs or the secretory pathway is tightly regulated for different functions.
PXD035409	37670295	Proteomic analysis unveils Gb3-independent alterations and mitochondrial dysfunction in a gla(-/-) zebrafish model of Fabry disease. 	Mitochondrial stress in GLA mutants Zebrafish is independent of globotriaosylceramide accumulation	Alpha-galactosidase A/ Fabry disease/ lysosome/ mitochondrial activity/ proteomic approach	BACKGROUND: Fabry disease (FD) is a rare lysosomal storage disorder caused by mutations in the GLA gene, resulting in reduced or lack of alpha-galactosidase A activity. This results in the accumulation of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) and other glycosphingolipids in lysosomes causing cellular impairment and organ failures. While current therapies focus on reversing Gb3 accumulation, they do not address the altered cellular signaling in FD. Therefore, this study aims to explore Gb3-independent mechanisms of kidney damage in Fabry disease and identify potential biomarkers. METHODS: To investigate these mechanisms, we utilized a zebrafish (ZF) gla(-/-) mutant (MU) model. ZF naturally lack A4GALT gene and, therefore, cannot synthesize Gb3. We obtained kidney samples from both wild-type (WT) (n = 8) and MU (n = 8) ZF and conducted proteome profiling using untargeted mass spectrometry. Additionally, we examined mitochondria morphology and cristae morphology using electron microscopy. To assess oxidative stress, we measured total antioxidant activity. Finally, immunohistochemistry was conducted on kidney samples to validate specific proteins. RESULTS: Our proteomics analysis of renal tissues from zebrafish revealed downregulation of lysosome and mitochondrial-related proteins in gla(-/-) MU renal tissues, while energy-related pathways including carbon, glycolysis, and galactose metabolisms were disturbed. Moreover, we observed abnormal mitochondrial shape, disrupted cristae morphology, altered mitochondrial volume and lower antioxidant activity in gla(-/-) MU ZF. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the alterations observed at the proteome and mitochondrial level closely resemble well-known GLA mutation-related alterations in humans. Importantly, they also unveil novel Gb3-independent pathogenic mechanisms in Fabry disease. Understanding these mechanisms could potentially lead to the development of innovative drug screening approaches. Furthermore, the findings pave the way for identifying new clinical targets, offering new avenues for therapeutic interventions in Fabry disease. The zebrafish gla(-/-) mutant model proves valuable in elucidating these mechanisms and may contribute significantly to advancing our knowledge of this disorder.
PXD039620	37670335	Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of plerocercoid and adult Spirometra mansoni reveal potential important pathways in the development of the medical tapeworm. 	Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of plerocercoid and adult of Spirometra mansoni reveal three potential important pathways in the development of the neglected medical tapeworm	Spirometra mansoni, comparative proteome, differentially expressed proteins, integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis, plerocercoid	BACKGROUND: Spirometra mansoni can parasitize animals and humans through food and water, causing parasitic zoonosis. Knowledge of the developmental process of S. mansoni is crucial for effective treatment; thus, it is important to characterize differential and specific proteins and pathways associated with parasite development. METHODS: In this study, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis of the plerocercoid and adult stages using a tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomic approach. Additionally, integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were conducted to obtain the full protein expression profiles of different life cycle stages of the tapeworm. RESULTS: Approximately 1166 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in adults versus plerocercoids, of which 641 DEPs were upregulated and 525 were downregulated. Gene Ontology (GO), Clusters of Orthologous groups (COG) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses indicated that most DEPs related to genetic information processing and metabolism of energy in adults seem to be more activated. In the plerocercoid stage, compared to metabolism, genetic information processing appears more dynamic. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) revealed six key proteins (phosphomannomutase, glutathione transferase, malate dehydrogenase, cytoplasmic, 40S ribosomal protein S15, ribosomal protein L15 and 60S acidic ribosomal protein P2) that may play active roles in the growth and development of S. mansoni. Finally, the combination of transcriptomic and proteomic data suggested that three pathways (ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, phagosome and spliceosome) and five proteins closely related to these pathways might have a significant influence in S. mansoni. CONCLUSIONS: These findings contribute to increasing the knowledge on the protein expression profiles of S. mansoni and provide new insights into functional studies on the molecular mechanisms of the neglected medical tapeworm.
PXD044613	37673856	Hyodeoxycholic acid ameliorates nonalcoholic fatty liver disease by inhibiting RAN-mediated PPARalpha nucleus-cytoplasm shuttling. 	The targets study of HDCA in ameliorating NAFLD induced by high-calories diet by multi-omics technology	NAFLD	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is usually characterized with disrupted bile acid (BA) homeostasis. However, the exact role of certain BA in NAFLD is poorly understood. Here we show levels of serum hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA) decrease in both NAFLD patients and mice, as well as in liver and intestinal contents of NAFLD mice compared to their healthy counterparts. Serum HDCA is also inversely correlated with NAFLD severity. Dietary HDCA supplementation ameliorates diet-induced NAFLD in male wild type mice by activating fatty acid oxidation in hepatic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha)-dependent way because the anti-NAFLD effect of HDCA is abolished in hepatocyte-specific Pparalpha knockout mice. Mechanistically, HDCA facilitates nuclear localization of PPARalpha by directly interacting with RAN protein. This interaction disrupts the formation of RAN/CRM1/PPARalpha nucleus-cytoplasm shuttling heterotrimer. Our results demonstrate the therapeutic potential of HDCA for NAFLD and provide new insights of BAs on regulating fatty acid metabolism.
PXD040925	37673874	Exosomal circEZH2_005, an intestinal injury biomarker, alleviates intestinal ischemia/reperfusion injury by mediating Gprc5a signaling. 	Identification of circEZH2_005-interacting proteins by mass spectrometry	Intestinal crypt cell, circEZH2_005	Intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a severe clinical condition without optimal diagnostic markers nor clear molecular etiological insights. Plasma exosomal circular RNAs (circRNAs) are valuable biomarkers and therapeutic targets for various diseases, but their role in intestinal I/R injury remains unknown. Here we screen the expression profile of circRNAs in intestinal tissue exosomes collected from intestinal I/R mice and identify circEZH2_005 as a significantly downregulated exosomal circRNA. In parallel, circEZH2_005 is also reduced in the plasma of clinical cardiac surgery patients who developed postoperative intestinal I/R injury. Exosomal circEZH2_005 displays a significant diagnostic value for intestinal injury induced by I/R. Mechanistically, circEZH2_005 is highly expressed in intestinal crypt cells. CircEZH2_005 upregulation promotes the proliferation of Lgr5+ stem cells by direct interaction with hnRNPA1, and enhanced Gprc5a stability, thereby alleviating I/R-induced intestinal mucosal damage. Hence, exosomal circEZH2_005 may serve as a biomarker for intestinal I/R injury and targeting the circEZH2_005/hnRNPA1/Gprc5a axis may be a potential therapeutic strategy for intestinal I/R injury.
PXD029585	37674080	Poltheta is phosphorylated by PLK1 to repair double-strand breaks in mitosis. 	NeonGreen-POLQ knock-in in Human embryonic kidney 293 cells VS Human embryonic kidney 293 cells	Pol binding partners in human cells	DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are deleterious lesions that challenge genome integrity. To mitigate this threat, human cells rely on the activity of multiple DNA repair machineries that are tightly regulated throughout the cell cycle(1). In interphase, DSBs are mainly repaired by non-homologous end joining and homologous recombination(2). However, these pathways are completely inhibited in mitosis(3-5), leaving the fate of mitotic DSBs unknown. Here we show that DNA polymerase theta(6) (Poltheta) repairs mitotic DSBs and thereby maintains genome integrity. In contrast to other DSB repair factors, Poltheta function is activated in mitosis upon phosphorylation by Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1). Phosphorylated Poltheta is recruited by a direct interaction with the BRCA1 C-terminal domains of TOPBP1 to mitotic DSBs, where it mediates joining of broken DNA ends. Loss of Poltheta leads to defective repair of mitotic DSBs, resulting in a loss of genome integrity. This is further exacerbated in cells that are deficient in homologous recombination, where loss of mitotic DSB repair by Poltheta results in cell death. Our results identify mitotic DSB repair as the underlying cause of synthetic lethality between Poltheta and homologous recombination. Together, our findings reveal the critical importance of mitotic DSB repair in the maintenance of genome integrity.
PXD043262	37674236	Quartet protein reference materials and datasets for multi-platform assessment of label-free proteomics. 	Quartet Protein Reference Materials for Multi-platform Assessment of Label-free Proteomics	Benchmark datasets, Quantitative proteomics, Reference materials	BACKGROUND: Quantitative proteomics is an indispensable tool in life science research. However, there is a lack of reference materials for evaluating the reproducibility of label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based measurements among different instruments and laboratories. RESULTS: Here, we develop the Quartet standard as a proteome reference material with built-in truths, and distribute the same aliquots to 15 laboratories with nine conventional LC-MS/MS platforms across six cities in China. Relative abundance of over 12,000 proteins on 816 mass spectrometry files are obtained and compared for reproducibility among the instruments and laboratories to ultimately generate proteomics benchmark datasets. There is a wide dynamic range of proteomes spanning about 7 orders of magnitude, and the injection order has marked effects on quantitative instead of qualitative characteristics. CONCLUSION: Overall, the Quartet offers valuable standard materials and data resources for improving the quality control of proteomic analyses as well as the reproducibility and reliability of research findings.
PXD038371	37674626	Endogenous H3.3K27M derived peptide restricted to HLA-A*02:01 is insufficient for immune-targeting in diffuse midline glioma. 	H3.3K27M HLA-A2 is not an effective immunotherapy target for diffuse midline glioma	CAR T cells, DIPG, H3.3 K27M, HLA, Immunopeptidomics	Diffuse midline glioma (DMG) is a childhood brain tumor with an extremely poor prognosis. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has recently demonstrated some success in DMG, but there may a need to target multiple tumor-specific targets to avoid antigen escape. We developed a second-generation CAR targeting an HLA-A*02:01 restricted histone 3K27M epitope in DMG, the target of previous peptide vaccination and T cell receptor-mimics. These CAR T cells demonstrated specific, titratable, binding to cells pulsed with the H3.3K27M peptide. However, we were unable to observe scFv binding, CAR T cell activation, or cytotoxic function against H3.3K27M(+) patient-derived models. Despite using sensitive immunopeptidomics, we could not detect the H3.3K27M26-35-HLA-A*02:01 peptide on these patient-derived models. Interestingly, other non-mutated peptides from DMG were detected bound to HLA-A*02:01 and other class I molecules, including a novel HLA-A3-restricted peptide encompassing the K27M mutation and overlapping with the H3 K27M26-35-HLA-A*02:01 peptide. These results suggest that targeting the H3 K27M26-35 mutation in context of HLA-A*02:01 may not be a feasible immunotherapy strategy because of its lack of presentation. These findings should inform future investigations and clinical trials in DMG.
PXD043828	37676068	Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Neurotoxic Effects of Chronic Methamphetamine Self-Administration-Induced Cognitive Impairments and the Role of Melatonin-Enhanced Restorative Process during Methamphetamine Withdrawal. 	Proteomic analysis reveals the neurotoxic effects of chronic methamphetamine self-administration-induced cognitive impairments and the role of melatonin-enhanced restorative process during drug withdrawal.	cognitive function, drug addiction, melatonin, methamphetamine, mitochondria, mitophagy, neurodegeneration, neuroplasticity, neurotoxicity, proteomics.	Cognitive flexibility is a crucial ability in humans that can be affected by chronic methamphetamine (METH) addiction. The present study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment in mice chronically administered METH via an oral self-administration method. Further, the effect of melatonin treatment on recovery of METH-induced cognitive impairment was also investigated. Cognitive performance of the mice was assessed using an attentional set shift task (ASST), and possible underlying neurotoxic mechanisms were investigated by proteomic and western blot analysis of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). The results showed that mice-administered METH for 21 consecutive days exhibited poor cognitive performance compared to controls. Cognitive deficit in mice partly recovered after METH withdrawal. In addition, mice treated with melatonin during METH withdrawal showed a higher cognitive recovery than vehicle-treated METH withdrawal mice. Proteomic and western blot analysis revealed that METH self-administration increased neurotoxic markers, including disruption to the regulation of mitochondrial function, mitophagy, and decreased synaptic plasticity. Treatment with melatonin during withdrawal restored METH-induced mitochondria and synaptic impairments. These findings suggest that METH-induced neurotoxicity partly depends on mitochondrial dysfunction leading to autophagy-dependent cell death and that the recovery of neurological impairments may be enhanced by melatonin treatment during the withdrawal period.
PXD040880	37676756	A Simplified and Ultrafast Pipeline for Site-Specific Quantitative Chemical Proteomics. 	A Simplified and Ultrafast Pipeline for Site-specific Quantitative Chemical Proteomics	ABPP, chemoproteomics, cysteinome, peptide enrichment, quantitative profiling	Activity-based proteome profiling (ABPP) is a powerful chemoproteomic technology for global profiling of protein activity and modifications. The tandem orthogonal proteolysis-ABPP (TOP-ABPP) strategy utilizes a clickable enrichment tag with cleavable linkers to enable direct identification of probe-labeled residue sites within the target proteins. However, such a site-specific chemoproteomic workflow requires a long operation time and complex sample preparation procedures, limiting its wide applications. In the current study, we developed a simplified and ultrafast peptide enrichment and release TOP-ABPP ("superTOP-ABPP") pipeline for site-specific quantitative chemoproteomic analysis with special agarose resins that are functionalized with azide groups and acid-cleavable linkers. The azide groups allow enrichment of peptides that are labeled by the alkynyl probe through a one-step click reaction, which can be conveniently released by acid cleavage for subsequent LC-MS/MS analysis. In comparison with the traditional TOP-ABPP method, superTOP-ABPP cuts down the averaged sample preparation time from 25 to 9 h, and significantly improves the sensitivity and coverage of site-specific cysteinome profiling. The method can also be seamlessly integrated with reductive dimethylation to enable quantitative chemoproteomic analysis with a high accuracy. The simplified and ultrafast superTOP-ABPP will become a valuable tool for site-specific quantitative chemoproteomic studies.
PXD042539	37678715	Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling reveals distinct pathogenic features of peripheral non-classical monocytes in systemic lupus erythematosus. 	Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of non-classical monocytes unravels distinct pathogenic features in SLE	M1 macrophages, Systemic lupus erythematosus, autoimmunity, cell cycle, cytokines, differentiation, non-classical monocytes, transcriptomics	Peripheral blood monocytes propagate inflammation in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Three major populations of monocytes have been recognized namely classical (CM), intermediate (IM) and non-classical monocytes (NCM). Herein, we performed a comprehensive transcriptomic, proteomic and functional characterization of the three peripheral monocytic subsets from active SLE patients and healthy individuals. Our data demonstrate extensive molecular disruptions in circulating SLE NCM, characterized by enhanced inflammatory features such as deregulated DNA repair, cell cycle and heightened IFN signaling combined with differentiation and developmental cues. Enhanced DNA damage, elevated expression of p53, G0 arrest of cell cycle and increased autophagy stress the differentiation potential of NCM in SLE. This immunogenic profile is associated with an activated macrophage phenotype of NCM exhibiting M1 characteristics in the circulation, fueling the inflammatory response. Together, these findings identify circulating SLE NCM as a pathogenic cell type in the disease that could represent an additional therapeutic target.
PXD044032	37679057	HowDirty: An R package to evaluate molecular contaminants in LC-MS experiments. 	HowDirty: An R package to evaluate molecular contaminants in LC-MS experiments	LC-MS, contamination, sample preparation, software	Contaminants derived from consumables, reagents, and sample handling often negatively affect LC-MS data acquisition. In proteomics experiments, they can markedly reduce identification performance, reproducibility, and quantitative robustness. Here, we introduce a data analysis workflow combining MS1 feature extraction in Skyline with HowDirty, an R-markdown-based tool, that automatically generates an interactive report on the molecular contaminant level in LC-MS data sets. To facilitate the interpretation of the results, the HTML report is self-contained and self-explanatory, including plots that can be easily interpreted. The R package HowDirty is available from https://github.com/DavidGZ1/HowDirty. To demonstrate a showcase scenario for the application of HowDirty, we assessed the impact of ultrafiltration units from different providers on sample purity after filter-assisted sample preparation (FASP) digestion. This allowed us to select the filter units with the lowest contamination risk. Notably, the filter units with the lowest contaminant levels showed higher reproducibility regarding the number of peptides and proteins identified. Overall, HowDirty enables the efficient evaluation of sample quality covering a wide range of common contaminant groups that typically impair LC-MS analyses, facilitating corrective or preventive actions to minimize instrument downtime.
PXD042305	37679095	Glutamine supplementation alleviated aortic atherosclerosis in mice model and in vitro. 	Glutamine supplementation alleviated aortic atherosclerosis in mice model and in vitro	atherosclerosis, glutamine, glycolysis, inflammation, oxidative stress	This study aimed to clarify the role of glutamine in atherosclerosis and its participating mechanism. Forty C57BL/6J mice were divided into wild control (wild Con), ApoE(-) /(-) control (ApoE(-) /(-) Con), glutamine + ApoE(-) /(-) control (Glut + ApoE(-) /(-) Con), ApoE(-) /(-) high fat diet (ApoE(-) /(-) HFD), and glutamine + ApoE(-) /(-) HFD (Glut + ApoE(-) /(-) HFD) groups. The degree of atherosclerosis, western blotting, and multiomics were detected at 18 weeks. An in vitro study was also performed. Glutamine treatment significantly decreased the degree of aortic atherosclerosis (p = 0.03). O-GlcNAcylation (O-GlcNAc), IL-1beta, IL-1alpha, and pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in the ApoE(-) /(-) HFD group were significantly higher than those in the ApoE(-) /(-) Con group (p < 0.05). These differences were attenuated by glutamine treatment (p < 0.05), and aggravated by O-GlcNA transferase (OGT) overexpression in the in vitro study (p < 0.05). Multiomics showed that the ApoE(-) /(-) HFD group had higher levels of oxidative stress regulatory molecules (guanine deaminase [GUAD], xanthine dehydrogenase [XDH]), proinflammatory regulatory molecules (myristic acid and myristoleic acid), and stress granules regulatory molecules (caprin-1 and deoxyribose-phosphate aldolase [DERA]) (p < 0.05). These differences were attenuated by glutamine treatment (p < 0.05). We conclude that glutamine supplementation might alleviate atherosclerosis through downregulation of O-GlcNAc, glycolysis, oxidative stress, and proinflammatory pathway.
PXD044578	37679340	Plant immunity suppression by an exo-beta-1,3-glucanase and an elongation factor 1alpha of the rice blast fungus. 	Suppression and counter-suppression of plant immunity by an exo-1,3-glucanase of GH17 family and an elongation factor 1 of the rice blast fungus	apoplastic fluid, barley, magnaporthe	Fungal cell walls undergo continual remodeling that generates beta-1,3-glucan fragments as products of endo-glycosyl hydrolases (GHs), which can be recognized as pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and trigger plant immune responses. How fungal pathogens suppress those responses is often poorly understood. Here, we study mechanisms underlying the suppression of beta-1,3-glucan-triggered plant immunity by the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. We show that an exo-beta-1,3-glucanase of the GH17 family, named Ebg1, is important for fungal cell wall integrity and virulence of M. oryzae. Ebg1 can hydrolyze beta-1,3-glucan and laminarin into glucose, thus suppressing beta-1,3-glucan-triggered plant immunity. However, in addition, Ebg1 seems to act as a PAMP, independent of its hydrolase activity. This Ebg1-induced immunity appears to be dampened by the secretion of an elongation factor 1 alpha protein (EF1alpha), which interacts and co-localizes with Ebg1 in the apoplast. Future work is needed to understand the mechanisms behind Ebg1-induced immunity and its suppression by EF1alpha.
PXD041836	37679459	Design principles for cyclin K molecular glue degraders. 	Design principles for cyclin K molecular glue degraders	Ubiquitin, cdk12, cr8, cyclink, degrader, molecular glue	Molecular glue degraders are an effective therapeutic modality, but their design principles are not well understood. Recently, several unexpectedly diverse compounds were reported to deplete cyclin K by linking CDK12-cyclin K to the DDB1-CUL4-RBX1 E3 ligase. Here, to investigate how chemically dissimilar small molecules trigger cyclin K degradation, we evaluated 91 candidate degraders in structural, biophysical and cellular studies and reveal all compounds acquire glue activity via simultaneous CDK12 binding and engagement of DDB1 interfacial residues, in particular Arg928. While we identify multiple published kinase inhibitors as cryptic degraders, we also show that these glues do not require pronounced inhibitory properties for activity and that the relative degree of CDK12 inhibition versus cyclin K degradation is tuneable. We further demonstrate cyclin K degraders have transcriptional signatures distinct from CDK12 inhibitors, thereby offering unique therapeutic opportunities. The systematic structure-activity relationship analysis presented herein provides a conceptual framework for rational molecular glue design.
PXD043843	37681454	Vascular endothelial growth factor B regulates insulin secretion in beta cells of type 2 diabetes mellitus mice via PLCgamma and the IP3R-evoked Ca2(+)/CaMK2 signaling pathway. 	Vascular endothelial growth factor B regulates insulin secretion in beta cells of type 2 diabetes mellitus mice via PLCgamma and IP3R-evoked Ca2+/CaMK2 signal pathway	Ca2+/CaMK2, PLCgamma/IP3R, T2DM, VEGFB, insulin secretion, beta cell	Vascular endothelial growth factor B (VEGFB) plays a crucial role in glucolipid metabolism and is highly associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The role of VEGFB in the insulin secretion of beta cells remains unverified. Thus, the present study aimed to discuss the effect of VEGFB on regulating insulin secretion in T2DM development, and its underlying mechanism. A high-fat diet and streptozocin (STZ) were used for inducing T2DM in mice model, and VEGFB gene in islet cells of T2DM mice was knocked out by CRISPR Cas9 and overexpressed by adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) injection. The effect of VEGFB and its underlying mechanism was assessed by light microscopy, electron microscopy and fluorescence confocal microscopy, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, mass spectrometer and western blot analysis. The decrement of insulin secretion in islet beta cell of T2DM mice were aggravated and blood glucose remained at a high level after VEGFB knockout (KO). However, glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity of T2DM mice were improved after the AAV-VEGFB(186) injection. VEGFB KO or overexpression can inhibit or activate PLCgamma/IP3R in a VEGFR1-dependent manner. Then, the change of PLCgamma/IP3R caused by VEGFB/VEGFR1 will alter the expression of key factors on the Ca2(+)/CaMK2 signaling pathway such as PPP3CA. Moreover, VEGFB can cause altered insulin secretion by changing the calcium concentration in beta cells of T2DM mice. These findings indicated that VEGFB activated the Ca2(+)/CaMK2 pathway via VEGFR1-PLCgamma and IP3R pathway to regulate insulin secretion, which provides new insight into the regulatory mechanism of abnormal insulin secretion in T2DM.
PXD041681	37681923	Changes in the Proteome of Platelets from Patients with Critical Progression of COVID-19. 	Changes in the proteome of platelets from patients with critical progression of COVID-19	COVID-19, ECMO, NFkB, acute-phase proteins, carbonic anhydrase 1, glucocorticoid re-ceptor, inflammation, platelets	Platelets, the smallest cells in human blood, known for their role in primary hemostasis, are also able to interact with pathogens and play a crucial role in the immune response. In severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases, platelets become overactivated, resulting in the release of granules, exacerbating inflammation and contributing to the cytokine storm. This study aims to further elucidate the role of platelets in COVID-19 progression and to identify predictive biomarkers for disease outcomes. A comparative proteome analysis of highly purified platelets from critically diseased COVID-19 patients with different outcomes (survivors and non-survivors) and age- and sex-matched controls was performed. Platelets from critically diseased COVID-19 patients exhibited significant changes in the levels of proteins associated with protein folding. In addition, a number of proteins with isomerase activity were found to be more highly abundant in patient samples, apparently exerting an influence on platelet activity via the non-genomic properties of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NFkappaB). Moreover, carbonic anhydrase 1 (CA-1) was found to be a candidate biomarker in platelets, showing a significant increase in COVID-19 patients.
PXD041981	37682848	Polyethylene Degradation by a Rhodococcous Strain Isolated from Naturally Weathered Plastic Waste Enrichment. 	Plastic degrdation in Rhodococcus	FTIR spectrum, Polyethylene biodegradation, Rhodococcus sp., network analysis	Polyethylene (PE) is the most widely produced synthetic polymer and the most abundant plastic waste worldwide due to its recalcitrance to biodegradation and low recycle rate. Microbial degradation of PE has been reported, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we isolated a Rhodococcus strain A34 from 609 day enriched cultures derived from naturally weathered plastic waste and identified the potential key PE degradation enzymes. After 30 days incubation with A34, 1% weight loss was achieved. Decreased PE molecular weight, appearance of C-O and C=O on PE, palmitic acid in the culture supernatant, and pits on the PE surface were observed. Proteomics analysis identified multiple key PE oxidation and depolymerization enzymes including one multicopper oxidase, one lipase, six esterase, and a few lipid transporters. Network analysis of proteomics data demonstrated the close relationships between PE degradation and metabolisms of phenylacetate, amino acids, secondary metabolites, and tricarboxylic acid cycles. The metabolic roadmap generated here provides critical insights for optimization of plastic degradation condition and assembly of artificial microbial communities for efficient plastic degradation.
PXD042704	37683181	Evaluating the Performance of the Astral Mass Analyzer for Quantitative Proteomics Using Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Evaluating the Performance of the Astral Mass Analyzer for Quantitative Proteomics Using Data Independent Acquisition	Astral, DIA, Orbitrap, limit of quantification, plasma	We evaluate the quantitative performance of the newly released Asymmetric Track Lossless (Astral) analyzer. Using data-independent acquisition, the Thermo Scientific Orbitrap Astral mass spectrometer quantifies 5 times more peptides per unit time than state-of-the-art Thermo Scientific Orbitrap mass spectrometers, which have long been the gold standard for high-resolution quantitative proteomics. Our results demonstrate that the Orbitrap Astral mass spectrometer can produce high-quality quantitative measurements across a wide dynamic range. We also use a newly developed extracellular vesicle enrichment protocol to reach new depths of coverage in the plasma proteome, quantifying over 5000 plasma proteins in a 60 min gradient with the Orbitrap Astral mass spectrometer.
PXD040281	37683827	A Standardized and Reproducible Workflow for Membrane Glass Slides in Routine Histology and Spatial Proteomics. 	A standardized and reproducible workflow for membrane glass slides in routine histology and spatial proteomics	Antigen retrieval, Deep Visual Proteomics, Glycerol, Heat-induced epitope retrieval, Histology, Laser microdissection, Membrane slides, Spatial proteomics	Defining the molecular phenotype of single cells in situ is key for understanding tissue architecture in health and disease. Advanced imaging platforms have recently been joined by spatial omics technologies, promising unparalleled insights into the molecular landscape of biological samples. Furthermore, high-precision laser microdissection (LMD) of tissue on membrane glass slides is a powerful method for spatial omics technologies and single-cell type spatial proteomics in particular. However, current histology protocols have not been compatible with glass membrane slides and LMD for automated staining platforms and routine histology procedures. This has prevented the combination of advanced staining procedures with LMD. In this study, we describe a novel method for handling glass membrane slides that enables automated eight-color multiplexed immunofluorescence staining and high-quality imaging followed by precise laser-guided extraction of single cells. The key advance is the glycerol-based modification of heat-induced epitope retrieval protocols, termed "G-HIER." We find that this altered antigen-retrieval solution prevents membrane distortion. Importantly, G-HIER is fully compatible with current antigen retrieval workflows and mass spectrometry-based proteomics and does not affect proteome depth or quality. To demonstrate the versatility of G-HIER for spatial proteomics, we apply the recently introduced deep visual proteomics technology to perform single-cell type analysis of adjacent suprabasal and basal keratinocytes of human skin. G-HIER overcomes previous incompatibility of standard and advanced staining protocols with membrane glass slides and enables robust integration with routine histology procedures, high-throughput multiplexed imaging, and sophisticated downstream spatial omics technologies.
PXD036222	37683955	Unraveling the role of TGFbeta signaling in thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection using Fbn1 mutant mouse models. 	Understanding the role of TGFbeta signaling on aortic aneurysm and rupture using Marfan syndrome mouse models	Fibrillin, Marfan syndrome, PSR-OHSU, TGFbeta signaling, aortic aneurysm and dissection, mouse models, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tags	Although abnormal TGFbeta signaling is observed in several heritable forms of thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections including Marfan syndrome, its precise role in aortic disease progression is still disputed. Using a mouse genetic approach and quantitative isobaric labeling proteomics, we sought to elucidate the role of TGFbeta signaling in three Fbn1 mutant mouse models representing a range of aortic disease from microdissection (without aneurysm) to aneurysm (without rupture) to aneurysm and rupture. Results indicated that reduced TGFbeta signaling and increased mast cell proteases were associated with microdissection. In contrast, increased abundance of extracellular matrix proteins, which could be reporters for positive TGFbeta signaling, were associated with aneurysm. Marked reductions in collagens and fibrillins, and increased TGFbeta signaling, were associated with aortic rupture. Our data indicate that TGFbeta signaling performs context-dependent roles in the pathogenesis of thoracic aortic disease.
PXD041617	37685865	Proteomic Analysis of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Secretome in Comparison to Leukocyte- and Platelet-Rich Fibrin. 	Secretomes of mesenchymal stromal cells and leukocyte and platelet rich fibrin	conditioned media, leukocyte and platelet rich fibrin, mesenchymal stromal cells	Secretomes of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are emerging as a novel growth factor (GF)-based strategy for periodontal and bone regeneration. The objective of this study was to compare the secretome of human bone marrow MSC (BMSC) to that of leukocyte- and platelet-rich fibrin (L-PRF), an established GF-based therapy, in the context of wound healing and regeneration. Conditioned media from human BMSCs (BMSC-CM) and L-PRF (LPRF-CM) were subjected to quantitative proteomic analysis using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Global profiles, gene ontology (GO) categories, differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), and gene set enrichment (GSEA) were identified using bioinformatic methods. Concentrations of selected proteins were determined using a multiplex immunoassay. Among the proteins identified in BMSC-CM (2157 proteins) and LPRF-CM (1420 proteins), 1283 proteins were common. GO analysis revealed similarities between the groups in terms of biological processes (cellular organization, protein metabolism) and molecular functions (cellular/protein-binding). Notably, more DEPs were identified in BMSC-CM (n = 550) compared to LPRF-CM (n = 118); these included several key GF, cytokines, and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins involved in wound healing. GSEA revealed enrichment of ECM (especially bone ECM)-related processes in BMSC-CM and immune-related processes in LPRF-CM. Similar trends for intergroup differences in protein detection were observed in the multiplex analysis. Thus, the secretome of BMSC is enriched for proteins/processes relevant for periodontal and bone regeneration. The in vivo efficacy of this therapy should be evaluated in future studies.
PXD043507	37685990	Proteome-Level Investigation of Vitis amurensis Calli Transformed with a Constitutively Active, Ca(2+)-Independent Form of the Arabidopsis AtCPK1 Gene. 	Function of constitutively active AtCPK1	Vitis amurensis, calcium-dependent protein kinases, pathogenesis related protein, plant defense	Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are one of the main Ca(2+) decoders in plants. Among them, Arabidopsis thaliana AtCPK1 is one of the most studied CDPK genes as a positive regulator of plant responses to biotic and abiotic stress. The mutated form of AtCPK1, in which the autoinhibitory domain is inactivated (AtCPK1-Ca), provides constitutive kinase activity by mimicking a stress-induced increase in the Ca(2+) flux. In the present study, we performed a proteomic analysis of Vitis amurensis calli overexpressing the AtCPK1-Ca form using untransformed calli as a control. In our previous studies, we have shown that the overexpression of this mutant form leads to the activation of secondary metabolism in plant cell cultures, including an increase in resveratrol biosynthesis in V. amurensis cell cultures. We analyzed upregulated and downregulated proteins in control and transgenic callus cultures using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and Matrix-assisted laser desorption and ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF). In calli transformed with AtCPK1-Ca, an increased amounts of pathogenesis-related proteins were found. A quantitative real-time PCR analysis confirmed this result.
PXD037659	37686040	Alteration of Mitochondrial Transcript Expression in Arabidopsis thaliana Using a Custom-Made Library of Pentatricopeptide Repeat Proteins. 	Effect of knockdEffect of knockdown of mitochondrial atp1 mRNA by a custom-designed PPR protein on protein expression in Arabidopsis thaliana own of mitochondrial atp1 mRNA by a custom-designed PPR protein on protein expression in Arabidopsis thaliana	ATP synthase, RNA processing factor 2 (RPF2), atp1, mitochondria, pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR), protein design	Pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) proteins are considered a potential tool for manipulating organelle gene expression in plants because they can recognise a wide range of different RNA sequences, and the molecular basis for this sequence recognition is partially known and understood. A library of redesigned PPR proteins related to restorer-of-fertility proteins was created and transformed into plants in order to target mitochondrial transcripts. Ninety different variants tested in vivo showed a wide range of phenotypes. One of these lines, which displayed slow growth and downward curled leaves, showed a clear reduction in complex V. The phenotype was due to a specific cleavage of atp1 transcripts induced by a modified PPR protein from the library, validating the use of this library as a source of mitochondrial 'mutants'. This study is a step towards developing specific RNA targeting tools using PPR proteins that can be aimed at desired targets.
PXD042501	37686208	Cross-Linked alpha-Synuclein as Inhibitor of Amyloid Formation. 	Cross-linked amyloidogenic proteins as potential aggregation inhibitors	cross-linking MS, alpha-synuclein	The aggregation and amyloid formation of alpha-synuclein is associated with Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies. In its native, monomeric form alpha-synuclein is an intrinsically disordered protein represented by highly dynamic conformational ensembles. Inhibition of alpha-synuclein aggregation using small molecules, peptides, or proteins has been at the center of interest in recent years. Our aim was to explore the effects of cross-linking on the structure and aggregation/amyloid formation properties of alpha-synuclein. Comparative analysis of available high-resolution amyloid structures and representative structural models and MD trajectory of monomeric alpha-synuclein revealed that potential cross-links in the monomeric protein are mostly incompatible with the amyloid forms and thus might inhibit fibrillation. Monomeric alpha-synuclein has been intramolecularly chemically cross-linked under various conditions using different cross-linkers. We determined the location of cross-links and their frequency using mass spectrometry and found that most of them cannot be realized in the amyloid structures. The inhibitory potential of cross-linked proteins has been experimentally investigated using various methods, including thioflavin-T fluorescence and transmission electron microscopy. We found that conformational constraints applied by cross-linking fully blocked alpha-synuclein amyloid formation. Moreover, DTSSP-cross-linked molecules exhibited an inhibitory effect on the aggregation of unmodified alpha-synuclein as well.
PXD037853	37686377	17 beta-Estradiol Impedes Aortic Root Dilation and Rupture in Male Marfan Mice. 	17 beta-estradiol impedes aortic root dilation and rupture in male Marfan mice	Aneurysm, Estrogen, Marfan Syndrome, Sex Differences	Marfan syndrome causes a hereditary form of thoracic aortic aneurysms with worse outcomes in male compared to female patients. In this study, we examine the effects of 17 beta-estradiol on aortic dilation and rupture in a Marfan mouse model. Marfan male mice were administered 17 beta-estradiol, and the growth in the aortic root, along with the risk of aortic rupture, was measured. Transcriptomic profiling was used to identify enriched pathways from 17 beta-estradiol treatments. Aortic smooth muscle cells were then treated with cytokines to validate functional mechanisms. We show that 17 beta-estradiol decreased the size and rate of aortic root dilation and improved survival from rupture. The Marfan transcriptome was enriched in inflammatory genes, and the addition of 17 beta-estradiol modulated a set of genes that function through TNFalpha mediated NF-kappaB signaling. In addition, 17 beta-estradiol suppressed the induction of these TNFalpha induced genes in aortic smooth muscle cells in vitro in an NF-kappaB dependent manner, and 17 beta-estradiol decreased the formation of adventitial inflammatory foci in aortic roots in vivo. In conclusion, 17 beta-estradiol protects against the dilation and rupture of aortic roots in Marfan male mice through the inhibition of TNFalpha-NF-kappaB signaling.
PXD044861	37686663	SPRY4 as a Potential Mediator of the Anti-Tumoral Role of Macrophages in Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer Cells. 	SPRY4 as a Potential Mediator of the Anti-Tumoral Role of Macrophages in Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer Cells	Macrophages, Thyroid Cancer	Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is the most lethal subtype of thyroid cancer, with high invasive and metastatic potential, not responding to conventional treatments. Its aggressiveness may be influenced by macrophages, which are abundant cells in the tumor microenvironment. To investigate the role of macrophages in ATC aggressiveness, indirect co-cultures were established between ATC cell lines and THP-1-derived macrophages. Macrophages significantly increased both the migration and invasion of T235 cells (p < 0.01; p < 0.01), contrasting with a decrease in C3948 (p < 0.001; p < 0.05), with mild effects in T238 migration (p < 0.01) and C643 invasion (p < 0.05). Flow cytometry showed upregulation of CD80 (pro-inflammatory, anti-tumoral) and downregulation of CD163 (anti-inflammatory, pro-tumoral) in macrophages from co-culture with T235 (p < 0.05) and C3948 (p < 0.05), respectively. Accordingly, we found an upregulation of secreted pro-inflammatory mediators (e.g., GM-CSF, IL-1alpha; p < 0.05) in C3948-macrophage co-cultures. Proteomic analysis showed the upregulation of SPRY4, an inhibitor of the MAPK pathway, in C3948 cells from co-culture. SPRY4 silencing promoted cancer cell invasion, reverting the reduced invasion of C3948 caused by macrophages. Our findings support that macrophages play a role in ATC cell aggressiveness. SPRY4 is a possible modulator of macrophage-ATC cell communication, with a tumor suppressor role relevant for therapeutic purposes.
PXD038155	37686682	Multi-omics Characterization of Response to PD-1 Inhibitors in Advanced Melanoma. 	Multi-omics characterization of response to PD-1 inhibitors in advanced melanoma	FFPE, PD-1 inhibitor, immunotherapy, melanoma, omics	Immunotherapy improves the survival of patients with advanced melanoma, 40% of whom become long-term responders. However, not all patients respond to immunotherapy. Further knowledge of the processes involved in the response and resistance to immunotherapy is still needed. In this study, clinical paraffin samples from fifty-two advanced melanoma patients treated with anti-PD-1 inhibitors were assessed via high-throughput proteomics and RNA-seq. The obtained proteomics and transcriptomics data were analyzed using multi-omics network analyses based on probabilistic graphical models to identify those biological processes involved in the response to immunotherapy. Additionally, proteins related to overall survival were studied. The activity of the node formed by the proteins involved in protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum and antigen presentation machinery was higher in responders compared to non-responders; the activity of the immune and inflammatory response node was also higher in those with complete or partial responses. A predictor for overall survival based on two proteins (AMBP and PDSM5) was defined. In summary, the response to anti-PD-1 therapy in advanced melanoma is related to protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum, and also to genes involved in the immune and inflammatory responses. Finally, a two-protein predictor can define survival in advanced disease. The molecular characterization of the mechanisms involved in the response and resistance to immunotherapy in melanoma leads the way to establishing therapeutic alternatives for patients who will not respond to this treatment.
PXD043728	37686821	Hydration Status of Geriatric Patients Is Associated with Changes in Plasma Proteome, Especially in Proteins Involved in Coagulation. 	Hydration status of geriatric patients is associated with changes of serum proteome especially of proteins involved in coagulation	alzheimer, biomarker, coagulation, dehydration, dementia, hyperhydration, serum, tandem mass tags, tmt, wound healing	Due to multifactorial reasons, such as decreased thirst and decreased total body water, elderly patients are vulnerable to dehydration. The study aims to investigate whether moderate dehydration or hyperhydration affects the blood proteome. Blood samples, medication, and bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) details were collected from 131 geriatric patients (77 women and 54 men aged 81.1 +/- 7.2 years). Based on an evaluation by Bioelectrical Impedance Vector Analyses (BIVAs) of this cohort, for each hydration status (dehydrated, hyperhydrated, and control), five appropriate blood plasma samples for both males and females were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Overall, 262 proteins for female patients and 293 proteins for male patients could be quantified. A total of 38 proteins had significantly different abundance, showing that hydration status does indeed affect the plasma proteome. Protein enrichment analysis of the affected proteins revealed "Wound Healing" and "Keratinization" as the two main biological processes being dysregulated. Proteins involved in clot formation are especially affected by hydration status.
PXD037482	37689310	Pulse-SILAC and Interactomics Reveal Distinct DDB1-CUL4-Associated Factors, Cellular Functions, and Protein Substrates. 	Identification of protein substrates of the Cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase CRL4 through its substrate recognition factors DCAFs	BioID, Cullin4, DCAFs, DDB1, Pulse-SILAC, interactome, ubiquitylation	Cullin-RING finger ligases represent the largest family of ubiquitin ligases. They are responsible for the ubiquitination of ~20% of cellular proteins degraded through the proteasome, by catalyzing the transfer of E2-loaded ubiquitin to a substrate. Seven cullins are described in vertebrates. Among them, cullin 4 (CUL4) associates with DNA damage-binding protein 1 (DDB1) to form the CUL4-DDB1 ubiquitin ligase complex, which is involved in protein ubiquitination and in the regulation of many cellular processes. Substrate recognition adaptors named DDB1/CUL4-associated factors (DCAFs) mediate the specificity of CUL4-DDB1 and have a short structural motif of approximately forty amino acids terminating in tryptophan (W)-aspartic acid (D) dipeptide, called the WD40 domain. Using different approaches (bioinformatics/structural analyses), independent studies suggested that at least sixty WD40-containing proteins could act as adaptors for the DDB1/CUL4 complex. To better define this association and classification, the interaction of each DCAFs with DDB1 was determined, and new partners and potential substrates were identified. Using BioID and affinity purification-mass spectrometry approaches, we demonstrated that seven WD40 proteins can be considered DCAFs with a high confidence level. Identifying protein interactions does not always lead to identifying protein substrates for E3-ubiquitin ligases, so we measured changes in protein stability or degradation by pulse-stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture to identify changes in protein degradation, following the expression of each DCAF. In conclusion, these results provide new insights into the roles of DCAFs in regulating the activity of the DDB1-CUL4 complex, in protein targeting, and characterized the cellular processes involved.
PXD037880	37689719	Cost-effective production of alginate oligosaccharides from Laminaria japonica roots by Pseudoalteromonas agarivorans A3. 	Green production of alginate oligosaccharides from Laminaria japonica root by fermentation of a Laminaria japonica-degrading strain Pseudoaltermonas sp. A3	Alginate lyases, Alginate oligosaccharides, Laminaria japonica, Optimization, Pseudoalteromonas, Supernatant of fermentation broth	BACKGROUND: Alginate oligosaccharides (AOs) are the degradation products of alginate, a natural polysaccharide abundant in brown algae. AOs generated by enzymatic hydrolysis have diverse bioactivities and show broad application potentials. AOs production via enzymolysis is now generally with sodium alginate as the raw material, which is chemically extracted from brown algae. In contrast, AOs production by direct degradation of brown algae is more advantageous on account of its cost reduction and is more eco-friendly. However, there have been only a few attempts reported in AOs production from direct degradation of brown algae. RESULTS: In this study, an efficient Laminaria japonica-decomposing strain Pseudoalteromonas agarivorans A3 was screened. Based on the secretome and mass spectrum analyses, strain A3 showed the potential as a cell factory for AOs production by secreting alginate lyases to directly degrade L. japonica. By using the L. japonica roots, which are normally discarded in the food industry, as the raw material for both fermentation and enzymatic hydrolysis, AOs were produced by the fermentation broth supernatant of strain A3 after optimization of the alginate lyase production and hydrolysis parameters. The generated AOs mainly ranged from dimers to tetramers, among which trimers and tetramers were predominant. The degradation efficiency of the roots reached 54.58%, the AOs production was 33.11%, and the AOs purity was 85.03%. CONCLUSION: An efficient, cost-effective and green process for AOs production directly from the underutilized L. japonica roots by using strain A3 was set up, which differed from the reported processes in terms of the substrate and strain used for fermentation and the AOs composition. This study provides a promising platform for scalable production of AOs, which may have application potentials in industry and agriculture.
PXD039436	37689828	Evidence of two differentially regulated elongasomes in Salmonella. 	Two elongasomes generate rod shape in a unicellular microorganism	PBP2, PBP2SAL, Salmonella, elongasome, peptidoglycan	Cell shape is genetically inherited by all forms of life. Some unicellular microbes increase niche adaptation altering shape whereas most show invariant morphology. A universal system of peptidoglycan synthases guided by cytoskeletal scaffolds defines bacterial shape. In rod-shaped bacteria, this system consists of two supramolecular complexes, the elongasome and divisome, which insert cell wall material along major and minor axes. Microbes with invariant shape are thought to use a single morphogenetic system irrespective of the occupied niche. Here, we provide evidence for two elongasomes that generate (rod) shape in the same bacterium. This phenomenon was unveiled in Salmonella, a pathogen that switches between extra- and intracellular lifestyles. The two elongasomes can be purified independently, respond to different environmental cues, and are directed by distinct peptidoglycan synthases: the canonical PBP2 and the pathogen-specific homologue PBP2SAL. The PBP2-elongasome responds to neutral pH whereas that directed by PBP2SAL assembles in acidic conditions. Moreover, the PBP2SAL-elongasome moves at a lower speed. Besides Salmonella, other human, animal, and plant pathogens encode alternative PBPs with predicted morphogenetic functions. Therefore, contrasting the view of morphological plasticity facilitating niche adaptation, some pathogens may have acquired alternative systems to preserve their shape in the host.
PXD038561	37690456	Substrate profiling of the metalloproteinase ovastacin uncovers specific enzyme-substrate interactions and discloses fertilization-relevant substrates. 	Substrate profiling of the metalloproteinase ovastacin - Implications for its physiological function in mammalian fertilization	MEF, Ovastacin, TAILS	The metalloproteinase ovastacin is released by the mammalian egg upon fertilization and cleaves a distinct peptide bond in zona pellucida protein 2 (ZP2), a component of the enveloping extracellular matrix. This limited proteolysis causes zona pellucida hardening, abolishes sperm binding, and thereby regulates fertility. Accordingly, this process is tightly controlled by the plasma protein fetuin-B, an endogenous competitive inhibitor. At present, little is known about how the cleavage characteristics of ovastacin differ from closely related proteases. Physiological implications of ovastacin beyond ZP2 cleavage are still obscure. In this study, we employed N-terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (N-TAILS) contained in the secretome of mouse embryonic fibroblasts to elucidate the substrate specificity and the precise cleavage site specificity. Furthermore, we were able to unravel the physicochemical properties governing ovastacin-substrate interactions as well as the individual characteristics that distinguish ovastacin from similar proteases, such as meprins and tolloid. Eventually, we identified several substrates whose cleavage could affect mammalian fertilization. Consequently, these substrates indicate newly identified functions of ovastacin in mammalian fertilization beyond zona pellucida hardening.
PXD039773	37690692	Elexacaftor/VX-445-mediated CFTR interactome remodeling reveals differential correction driven by mutation-specific translational dynamics. 	Elexacaftor/VX-445-mediated CFTR interactome remodeling reveals differential correction driven by mutation-specific translational dynamics	AP-MS, CF, CFTR, Elexacaftor, Interactomics, Trikafta	Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most prevalent lethal genetic diseases with over 2000 identified mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Pharmacological chaperones such as lumacaftor (VX-809), tezacaftor (VX-661), and elexacaftor (VX-445) treat mutation-induced defects by stabilizing CFTR and are called correctors. These correctors improve proper folding and thus facilitate processing and trafficking to increase the amount of functional CFTR on the cell surface. Yet, CFTR variants display differential responses to each corrector. Here, we report that variants P67L and L206W respond similarly to VX-809 but divergently to VX-445 with P67L exhibiting little rescue when treated with VX-445. We investigate the underlying cellular mechanisms of how CFTR biogenesis is altered by correctors in these variants. Affinity purification-mass spectrometry multiplexed with isobaric tandem mass tags was used to quantify CFTR protein-protein interaction changes between variants P67L and L206W. VX-445 facilitates unique proteostasis factor interactions especially in translation, folding, and degradation pathways in a CFTR variant-dependent manner. A number of these interacting proteins knocked down by siRNA, such as ribosomal subunit proteins, moderately rescued fully glycosylated P67L. Importantly, these knockdowns sensitize P67L to VX-445 and further enhance the trafficking correction of this variant. Partial inhibition of protein translation also mildly sensitizes P67L CFTR to VX-445 correction, supporting a role for translational dynamics in the rescue mechanism of VX-445. Our results provide a better understanding of VX-445 biological mechanism of action and reveal cellular targets that may sensitize nonresponsive CFTR variants to known and available correctors.
PXD043282	37691250	4D-diaXLMS: Proteome-wide Four-Dimensional Data-Independent Acquisition Workflow for Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	4D-diaXLMS: Proteome-wide Four-Dimensional Data-Independent Acquisition Workflow for Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry	Crosslinking proteomics, diaPASEF	Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) is a powerful tool for examining protein structures and interactions. Nevertheless, analysis of low-abundance cross-linked peptides is often limited in the data-dependent acquisition (DDA) mode due to its semistochastic nature. To address this issue, we introduced a workflow called 4D-diaXLMS, representing the first-ever application of four-dimensional data-independent acquisition for proteome-wide cross-linking analysis. Cross-linking studies of the HeLa cell proteome were evaluated using the classical cross-linker disuccinimidyl suberate as an example. Compared with the DDA analysis, 4D-diaXLMS exhibited marked improvement in the identification coverage of cross-linked peptides, with a total increase of 36% in single-shot analysis across all 16 SCX fractions. This advantage was further amplified when reducing the fraction number to 8 and 4, resulting in 125 and 149% improvements, respectively. Using 4D-diaXLMS, up to 83% of the cross-linked peptides were repeatedly identified in three replicates, more than twice the 38% in the DDA mode. Furthermore, 4D-diaXLMS showed good performance in the quantitative analysis of yeast cross-linked peptides even in a 15-fold excess amount of HeLa cell matrix, with a low coefficient of variation and high quantitative accuracies in all concentrations. Overall, 4D-diaXLMS was proven to have high coverage, good reproducibility, and accurate quantification for in-depth XL-MS analysis in complex samples, demonstrating its immense potential for advances in the field.
PXD043672	37691488	Pioneer activity distinguishes activating from non-activating SOX2 binding sites. 	Pioneer activity distinguishes activating from non-activating SOX2 binding sites	SOX2, acute protein depletion, chromatin accessibility, gene regulation	Genome-wide transcriptional activity involves the binding of many transcription factors (TFs) to thousands of sites in the genome. Pioneer TFs are a class of TFs that maintain open chromatin and allow non-pioneer TFs access to their target sites. Determining which TF binding sites directly drive transcription remains a challenge. Here, we use acute protein depletion of the pioneer TF SOX2 to establish its functionality in maintaining chromatin accessibility. We show that thousands of accessible sites are lost within an hour of protein depletion, indicating rapid turnover of these sites in the absence of the pioneer factor. To understand the relationship with transcription, we performed nascent transcription analysis and found that open chromatin sites that are maintained by SOX2 are highly predictive of gene expression, in contrast to all other SOX2 binding sites. We use CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing in the Klf2 locus to functionally validate a predicted regulatory element. We conclude that the regulatory activity of SOX2 is exerted mainly at sites where it maintains accessibility and that other binding sites are largely dispensable for gene regulation.
PXD039998	37696842	EP300 promotes ferroptosis via HSPA5 acetylation in pancreatic cancer. 	EP300 promotes ferroptosis via HSPA5 acetylation in pancreatic cancer	Cell, IP-MS, PDAC	Ferroptosis is a form of regulated cell death characterized by oxidative injury-induced lipid peroxidation. However, the detailed protein post-translational modification regulatory mechanism of ferroptosis remains largely unknown. Here, we report that E1A binding protein P300 (EP300) acetyltransferase promotes ferroptosis in human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells via the acetylation of heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5 (HSPA5), also known as GRP78 or BIP) on the site of K353. Acetylated HSPA5 loses its ability to inhibit lipid peroxidation and subsequent ferroptotic cell death. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of EP300-mediated HSPA5 acetylation on K353 increases PDAC cell resistance to ferroptosis. Moreover, histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) limits HSPA5 acetylation and subsequent ferroptosis. Collectively, these findings not only identify regulatory pathways for HSPA5 acetylation during ferroptosis, but also highlight promising strategies to increase ferroptosis sensitivity in PDAC cells.
PXD038270	37696912	Global proteomic identifies multiple cancer-related signaling pathways altered by a gut pathobiont associated with colorectal cancer. 	The oncogenic role of Streptococcus gallolyticus subsp. Gallolyticus-Phosphoproteome-Part1	Streptococcus gallolyticus, colorectal cancer, phosphoproteome	In this work, we investigated the oncogenic role of Streptococcus gallolyticus subsp. gallolyticus (SGG), a gut bacterium associated with colorectal cancer (CRC). We showed that SGG UCN34 accelerates colon tumor development in a chemically induced CRC murine model. Full proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of murine colons chronically colonized by SGG UCN34 revealed that 164 proteins and 725 phosphorylation sites were differentially regulated. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) indicates a pro-tumoral shift specifically induced by SGG UCN34, as ~ 90% of proteins and phosphoproteins identified were associated with digestive cancer. Comprehensive analysis of the altered phosphoproteins using ROMA software revealed up-regulation of several cancer hallmark pathways such as MAPK, mTOR and integrin/ILK/actin, affecting epithelial and stromal colonic cells. Importantly, an independent analysis of protein arrays of human colon tumors colonized with SGG showed up-regulation of PI3K/Akt/mTOR and MAPK pathways, providing clinical relevance to our findings. To test SGG's capacity to induce pre-cancerous transformation of the murine colonic epithelium, we grew ex vivo organoids which revealed unusual structures with compact morphology. Taken together, our results demonstrate the oncogenic role of SGG UCN34 in a murine model of CRC associated with activation of multiple cancer-related signaling pathways.
PXD040138	37697016	Morphological and physiological adaptations of psychrophilic Pseudarthrobacter psychrotolerans YJ56 under temperature stress. 	Proteomics analysis of Psychrophilic Pseudarthrobacter psychrotolerans YJ56 under different temperatures	LC/MSMS, Proteomic analysis	Both culture-independent and culture-dependent analyses using Nanopore-based 16S rRNA sequencing showed that short-term exposure of Antarctic soils to low temperature increased biomass with lower bacterial diversity and maintained high numbers of the phylum Proteobacteria, Firmicute, and Actinobacteria including Pseudarthrobacter species. The psychrophilic Pseudarthrobacter psychrotolerans YJ56 had superior growth at 13 degreesC, but could not grow at 30 degreesC, compared to other bacteria isolated from the same Antarctic soil. Unlike a single rod-shaped cell at 13 degreesC, strain YJ56 at 25 degreesC was morphologically shifted into a filamentous bacterium with several branches. Comparative genomics of strain YJ56 with other genera in the phylum Actinobacteria indicate remarkable copy numbers of rimJ genes that are possibly involved in dual functions, acetylation of ribosomal proteins, and stabilization of ribosomes by direct binding. Our proteomic data suggested that Actinobacteria cells experienced physiological stresses at 25 degreesC, showing the upregulation of chaperone proteins, GroEL and catalase, KatE. Level of proteins involved in the assembly of 50S ribosomal proteins and L29 in 50S ribosomal proteins increased at 13 degreesC, which suggested distinct roles of many ribosomal proteins under different conditions. Taken together, our data highlights the cellular filamentation and protein homeostasis of a psychrophilic YJ56 strain in coping with high-temperature stress.
PXD044833	37698928	Severe kidney dysfunction in sialidosis mice reveals an essential role for neuraminidase 1 in reabsorption. 	Severe kidney dysfunction in sialidosis mice reveals an essential role for neuraminidase 1 in reabsorption	neuraminidase 1, protein sialylation, renal reabsorption, sialidosis	Sialidosis is an ultra-rare multisystemic lysosomal disease caused by mutations in the neuraminidase 1 (NEU1) gene. The severe type II form of the disease manifests with a prenatal/infantile or juvenile onset, bone abnormalities, severe neuropathology, and visceromegaly. A subset of these patients present with nephrosialidosis, characterized by abrupt onset of fulminant glomerular nephropathy. We studied the pathophysiological mechanism of the disease in 2 NEU1-deficient mouse models, a constitutive Neu1-knockout, Neu1DeltaEx3, and a conditional phagocyte-specific knockout, Neu1Cx3cr1DeltaEx3. Mice of both strains exhibited terminal urinary retention and severe kidney damage with elevated urinary albumin levels, loss of nephrons, renal fibrosis, presence of storage vacuoles, and dysmorphic mitochondria in the intraglomerular and tubular cells. Glycoprotein sialylation in glomeruli, proximal distal tubules, and distal tubules was drastically increased, including that of an endocytic reabsorption receptor megalin. The pool of megalin bearing O-linked glycans with terminal galactose residues, essential for protein targeting and activity, was reduced to below detection levels. Megalin levels were severely reduced, and the protein was directed to lysosomes instead of the apical membrane. Together, our results demonstrated that desialylation by NEU1 plays a crucial role in processing and cellular trafficking of megalin and that NEU1 deficiency in sialidosis impairs megalin-mediated protein reabsorption.
PXD040865	37699202	Neutral sphingomyelinase blockade enhances hematopoietic stem cell fitness through an integrated stress response. 	Ceramide-dependent vesicle secretion modulates the integrated stress response in hematopoietic stem cells	ATF4, GW4869, Hematopoietic stem cells, exosomes, hematopoiesis, reactive oxygen species, transplantation	Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) transplantation serves as a curative therapy for many benign and malignant hematopoietic disorders and as a platform for gene therapy. However, growing needs for ex vivo manipulation of HSPC-graft products are limited by barriers in maintaining critical self-renewal and quiescence properties. The role of sphingolipid metabolism in safeguarding these essential cellular properties has been recently recognized, but not yet widely explored. Here, we demonstrate that pharmacologic and genetic inhibition of neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase-2) leads to sustained improvements in long-term competitive transplantation efficiency after ex vivo culture. Mechanistically, nSMase-2 blockade activates a canonical integrated stress response (ISR) and promotes metabolic quiescence in human and murine HSPCs. These adaptations result in part from disruption in sphingolipid metabolism that impairs the release of nSMase-2-dependent extracellular vesicles (EVs). The aggregate findings link EV trafficking and the ISR as a regulatory dyad guarding HSPC homeostasis and long-term fitness. Translationally, transient nSMase-2 inhibition enables ex vivo graft manipulation with enhanced HSPC potency.
PXD045811	37699454	The UV-A Receptor CRY-DASH1 Up- and Downregulates Proteins Involved in Different Plastidial Pathways. 	UV-A receptor CRY-DASH1 up- and UV-A receptor CRY-DASH1 up- and downregulates proteins involved in different plastidial pathways	central carbon metabolism, chlorophyll biosynthesis, histidine, photoreceptor	Algae encode up to five different types of cryptochrome photoreceptors. So far, relatively little is known about the biological functions of the DASH (Drosophila, Arabidopsis, Synechocystis and Homo)-type cryptochromes. The green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii encodes two of them. CRY-DASH1 also called DCRY1 has its maximal absorption peak in the UV-A range. It is localized in the chloroplast and plays an important role in balancing the photosynthetic machinery. Here, we performed a comparative analysis of chloroplast proteins from wild type and a knockout mutant of CRY-DASH1 named cry-dash1mut, using label-free quantitative proteomics as well as immunoblotting. Our results show upregulation of enzymes involved in specific pathways in the mutant including key enzymes of chlorophyll and carotenoid biosynthesis consistent with increased levels of photosynthetic pigments in cry-dash1mut. There is also an increase in certain redox as well as photosystem I and II proteins, including D1. Strikingly, CRY-DASH1 is coregulated in a D1 deletion mutant, where its amount is increased. In contrast, key proteins of the central carbon metabolism, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, dark fermentation and the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway are downregulated in cry-dash1mut. Similarly, enzymes of histidine biosynthesis are downregulated in cry-dash1mut leading to a reduction in the amount of free histidine. Yet, transcripts encoding for several of these proteins are at a similar level in the wild type and cry-dash1mut or even opposite. We show that CRY-DASH1 can bind to RNA, taking the psbA RNA encoding D1 as target. These data suggest that CRY-DASH1 regulates plastidial metabolic pathways at the posttranscriptional level.
PXD035018	37701067	Inhibition of pro-inflammatory signaling in human primary macrophages by enhancing arginase-2 via target site blockers. 	Inhibition of pro-inflammatory signalling in human primary macrophages by enhancing Arginase-2 via target site blockers	Inflammation, macrophage, multiple sclerosis	The modulation of macrophage phenotype from a pro-inflammatory to an anti-inflammatory state holds therapeutic potential in the treatment of inflammatory disease. We have previously shown that arginase-2 (Arg2), a mitochondrial enzyme, is a key regulator of the macrophage anti-inflammatory response. Here, we investigate the therapeutic potential of Arg2 enhancement via target site blockers (TSBs) in human macrophages. TSBs are locked nucleic acid antisense oligonucleotides that were specifically designed to protect specific microRNA recognition elements (MREs) in human ARG2 3' UTR mRNA. TSBs targeting miR-155 (TSB-155) and miR-3202 (TSB-3202) MREs increased ARG2 expression in human monocyte-derived macrophages. This resulted in decreased gene expression and cytokine production of TNF-alpha and CCL2 and, for TSB-3202, in an increase in the anti-inflammatory macrophage marker, CD206. Proteomic analysis demonstrated that a network of pro-inflammatory responsive proteins was modulated by TSBs. In silico bioinformatic analysis predicted that TSB-3202 suppressed upstream pro-inflammatory regulators including STAT-1 while enhancing anti-inflammatory associated proteins. Proteomic data were validated by confirming increased levels of sequestosome-1 and decreased levels of phosphorylated STAT-1 and STAT-1 upon TSB treatment. In conclusion, upregulation of Arg2 by TSBs inhibits pro-inflammatory signaling and is a promising novel therapeutic strategy to modulate inflammatory signaling in human macrophages.
PXD025808	37702657	CK1delta and CK1epsilon Signaling Sustains Mitochondrial Metabolism and Cell Survival in Multiple Myeloma. 	CK1delta/CK1epsilon Signaling is Necessary to Sustain mitochondrial Metabolism and Cell Survival in Multiple Myeloma	Multiple myeloma, activity-based protein profiling, casein kinase, mitochondrial metabolism	Multiple myeloma remains an incurable malignancy due to acquisition of intrinsic programs that drive therapy resistance. Here we report that casein kinase-1delta (CK1delta) and CK1epsilon are therapeutic targets in multiple myeloma that are necessary to sustain mitochondrial metabolism. Specifically, the dual CK1delta/CK1epsilon inhibitor SR-3029 had potent in vivo and ex vivo anti-multiple myeloma activity, including against primary multiple myeloma patient specimens. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and metabolic analyses revealed inhibiting CK1delta/CK1epsilon disables multiple myeloma metabolism by suppressing genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos), reducing citric acid cycle intermediates, and suppressing complexes I and IV of the electron transport chain. Finally, sensitivity of multiple myeloma patient specimens to SR-3029 correlated with elevated expression of mitochondrial genes, and RNA-seq from 687 multiple myeloma patient samples revealed that increased CSNK1D, CSNK1E, and OxPhos genes correlate with disease progression and inferior outcomes. Thus, increases in mitochondrial metabolism are a hallmark of multiple myeloma progression that can be disabled by targeting CK1delta/CK1epsilon. SIGNIFICANCE: CK1delta and CK1epsilon are attractive therapeutic targets in multiple myeloma whose expression increases with disease progression and connote poor outcomes, and that are necessary to sustain expression of genes directing OxPhos.
PXD042577	37703312	Trazodone rescues dysregulated synaptic and mitochondrial nascent proteomes in prion neurodegeneration. 	Trazodone is neuroprotective via rescue of dysregulated synaptic and mitochondrial translatomes in neurodegeneration	UPR/ISR, mutochondria, neurodegeneration, synapse, translational repression, translatome, trazodone	The unfolded protein response (UPR) is rapidly gaining momentum as a therapeutic target for protein misfolding neurodegenerative diseases, in which its overactivation results in sustained translational repression leading to synapse loss and neurodegeneration. In mouse models of these disorders, from Alzheimer's to prion disease, modulation of the pathway - including by the licensed drug, trazodone - restores global protein synthesis rates with profound neuroprotective effects. However, the precise nature of the translational impairment, in particular the specific proteins affected in disease, and their response to therapeutic UPR modulation are poorly understood. We used non-canonical amino acid tagging (NCAT) to measure de novo protein synthesis in the brains of prion-diseased mice with and without trazodone treatment, in both whole hippocampus and cell-specifically. During disease the predominant nascent proteome changes occur in synaptic, cytoskeletal and mitochondrial proteins in both hippocampal neurons and astrocytes. Remarkably, trazodone treatment for just two weeks largely restored the whole disease nascent proteome in the hippocampus to that of healthy, uninfected mice, predominantly with recovery of proteins involved in synaptic and mitochondrial function. In parallel, trazodone treatment restored the disease-associated decline in synapses and mitochondria and their function to wildtype levels. In conclusion, this study increases our understanding of how translational repression contributes to neurodegeneration through synaptic and mitochondrial toxicity via depletion of key proteins essential for their function. Further, it provides new insights into the neuroprotective mechanisms of trazodone through reversal of this toxicity, relevant for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases via translational modulation.
PXD038989	37704098	Quantitative Time-Course Analysis of Osmotic and Salt Stress in Arabidopsis thaliana Using Short Gradient Multi-CV FAIMSpro BoxCar DIA. 	Short Gradient Multi-CV FAIMSpro BoxCar DIA Facilitates Quantitative Time-Course Analysis of Osmotic and Salt Stress in Arabidopsis thaliana - Technical Dataset	BoxCarDIA, DirectDIA, FAIMSpro	A major limitation when undertaking quantitative proteomic time-course experimentation is the tradeoff between depth-of-analysis and speed-of-analysis. In high complexity and high dynamic range sample types, such as plant extracts, balance between resolution and time is especially apparent. To address this, we evaluate multiple compensation voltage (CV) high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMSpro) settings using the latest label-free single-shot Orbitrap-based DIA acquisition workflows for their ability to deeply quantify the Arabidopsis thaliana seedling proteome. Using a BoxCarDIA acquisition workflow with a -30 -50 -70 CV FAIMSpro setting, we were able to consistently quantify >5000 Arabidopsis seedling proteins over a 21-min gradient, facilitating the analysis of ~42 samples per day. Utilizing this acquisition approach, we then quantified proteome-level changes occurring in Arabidopsis seedling shoots and roots over 24 h of salt and osmotic stress, to identify early and late stress response proteins and reveal stress response overlaps. Here, we successfully quantify >6400 shoot and >8500 root protein groups, respectively, quantifying nearly ~9700 unique protein groups in total across the study. Collectively, we pioneer a short gradient, multi-CV FAIMSpro BoxCarDIA acquisition workflow that represents an exciting new analysis approach for undertaking quantitative proteomic time-course experimentation in plants.
PXD040164	37704583	Periostin C-Terminal Is Intrinsically Disordered and Interacts with 143 Proteins in an In Vitro Epidermal Model of Atopic Dermatitis. 	The C-terminal domain of periostin is intrinsically disordered and interacts with 143 proteins in an in vitro epidermal model of atopic dermatitis	alternative splicing, atopic dermatitis, connective tissue, extracellular matrix protein, heparin-binding protein, intrinsically disordered protein, periostin, proteinprotein interactions, wound healing	Human periostin is a 78-91 kDa matricellular protein implicated in extracellular matrix remodeling, tumor development, metastasis, and inflammatory diseases like atopic dermatitis, psoriasis, and asthma. The protein consists of six domains, including an N-terminal Cys-rich CROPT domain, four fasciclin-1 domains, and a C-terminal domain. The exons encoding the C-terminal domain may be alternatively spliced by shuffling four exons, generating ten variants of unknown function. Here, we investigate the structure and interactome of the full-length variant of the C-terminal domain with no exons spliced out. The structural analysis showed that the C-terminal domain lacked a tertiary structure and was intrinsically disordered. In addition, we show that the motif responsible for heparin-binding is in the conserved very C-terminal part of periostin. Pull-down confirmed three known interaction partners and identified an additional 140 proteins, among which nine previously have been implicated in atopic dermatitis. Based on our findings, we suggest that the C-terminal domain of periostin facilitates interactions between connective tissue components in concert with the four fasciclin domains.
PXD043775	37704624	Proteogenomics of different urothelial bladder cancer stages reveals distinct molecular features for papillary cancer and carcinoma in situ. 	Proteogenomics of urothelial bladder cancer progression reveals the distinguished molecular features of different pathological subtypes	early urothelial bladder cancer, proteogenomics, uc progression	The progression of urothelial bladder cancer (UC) is a complicated multi-step process. We perform a comprehensive multi-omics analysis of 448 samples from 190 UC patients, covering the whole spectrum of disease stages and grades. Proteogenomic integration analysis indicates the mutations of HRAS regulated mTOR signaling to form urothelial papilloma rather than papillary urothelial cancer (PUC). DNA damage is a key signaling pathway in the progression of carcinoma in situ (CIS) and related to APOBEC signature. Glucolipid metabolism increase and lower immune cell infiltration are associated with PUC compared to CIS. Proteomic analysis distinguishes the origins of invasive tumors (PUC-derived and CIS-derived), related to distinct clinical prognosis and molecular features. Additionally, loss of RBPMS, associated with CIS-derived tumors, is validated to increase the activity of AP-1 and promote metastasis. This study reveals the characteristics of two distinct branches (PUC and CIS) of UC progression and may eventually benefit clinical practice.
PXD042270	37704658	The tectonic complex regulates membrane protein composition in the photoreceptor cilium. 	Tectonic Complex Impedes Diffusion through the Ciliary Transition Zone to Ensure Proper Sorting of Membrane Proteins	Tectonic, cilia, photoreceptor	The primary cilium is a signaling organelle with a unique membrane composition maintained by a diffusional barrier residing at the transition zone. Many transition zone proteins, such as the tectonic complex, are linked to preserving ciliary composition but the mechanism remains unknown. To understand tectonic's role, we generate a photoreceptor-specific Tctn1 knockout mouse. Loss of Tctn1 results in the absence of the entire tectonic complex and associated MKS proteins yet has minimal effects on the transition zone structure of rod photoreceptors. We find that the protein composition of the photoreceptor cilium is disrupted as non-resident membrane proteins accumulate in the cilium over time, ultimately resulting in photoreceptor degeneration. We further show that fluorescent rhodopsin moves faster through the transition zone in photoreceptors lacking tectonic, which suggests that the tectonic complex acts as a physical barrier to slow down membrane protein diffusion in the photoreceptor transition zone to ensure proper removal of non-resident membrane proteins.
PXD037801	37704681	Bile salts enhance the susceptibility of the peach allergenic lipid transfer protein, Pru p 3, to in vitro gastrointestinal proteolysis. 	Bile Salts Enhance the Susceptibility of the Allergenic Lipid Transfer Protein from Peach, Pru p 3 to in vitro gastrointestinal digestion	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Pru p 3, bile salts, digestibility, disulphide bonds, immunoactivity	Sensitisation to the lipid transfer protein Pru p 3 is associated with severe allergic reactions to peach, the proteins stability being thought to play a role in its allergenicity. Lipid binding increases susceptibility of Pru p 3 to digestion and so the impact of bile salts on the in vitro gastrointestinal digestibility of Pru p 3 was investigated and digestion products mapped by SDS-PAGE and mass spectrometry. Bile salts enhanced the digestibility of Pru p 3 resulting in an ensemble of around 100 peptides spanning the protein's sequence which were linked by disulphide bonds into structures of ~ 5-6 kDa. IgE binding studies with a serum panel from peach allergic subjects showed digestion reduced, but did not abolish, the IgE reactivity of Pru p 3. These data show the importance of including bile salts in vitro digestion systems and emphasise the need to profile of digestion in a manner that allows identification of immunologically relevant disulphide-linked peptide aggregates.
PXD042546	37706597	Spectral library search for improved TMTpro labelled peptide assignment in human plasma proteomics. 	Spectral Library Search for Improved TMTpro Labelled Peptide Assignment in Human Plasma Proteomics	TMTpro, peptide identification, plasma proteomics, spectral library search	Clinical biomarker discovery is often based on the analysis of human plasma samples. However, the high dynamic range and complexity of plasma pose significant challenges to mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Current methods for improving protein identifications require laborious pre-analytical sample preparation. In this study, we developed and evaluated a TMTpro-specific spectral library for improved protein identification in human plasma proteomics. The library was constructed by LC-MS/MS analysis of highly fractionated TMTpro-tagged human plasma, human cell lysates, and relevant arterial tissues. The library was curated using several quality filters to ensure reliable peptide identifications. Our results show that spectral library searching using the TMTpro spectral library improves the identification of proteins in plasma samples compared to conventional sequence database searching. Protein identifications made by the spectral library search engine demonstrated a high degree of complementarity with the sequence database search engine, indicating the feasibility of increasing the number of protein identifications without additional pre-analytical sample preparation. The TMTpro-specific spectral library provides a resource for future plasma proteomics research and optimization of search algorithms for greater accuracy and speed in protein identifications in human plasma proteomics, and is made publicly available to the research community via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD042546.
PXD036201	37707322	ORP8 acts as a lipophagy receptor to mediate lipid droplet turnover. 	Identification of phosphorylation sites of purified ORP8 from in vitro AMPK kinase assay	AMPK, ORP8, phosphorylation	Lipophagy, the selective engulfment of lipid droplets (LDs) by autophagosomes for lysosomal degradation, is critical to lipid and energy homeostasis. Here we show that the lipid transfer protein ORP8 is located on LDs and mediates the encapsulation of LDs by autophagosomal membranes. This function of ORP8 is independent of its lipid transporter activity and is achieved through direct interaction with phagophore-anchored LC3/GABARAPs. Upon lipophagy induction, ORP8 has increased localization on LDs and is phosphorylated by AMPK, thereby enhancing its affinity for LC3/GABARAPs. Deletion of ORP8 or interruption of ORP8-LC3/GABARAP interaction results in accumulation of LDs and increased intracellular triglyceride. Overexpression of ORP8 alleviates LD and triglyceride deposition in the liver of ob/ob mice, and Osbpl8-/- mice exhibit liver lipid clearance defects. Our results suggest that ORP8 is a lipophagy receptor that plays a key role in cellular lipid metabolism.
PXD037097	37709257	Integrated Immunopeptidomics and Proteomics Study of SARS-CoV-2-Infected Calu-3 Cells Reveals Dynamic Changes in Allele-specific HLA Abundance and Antigen Presentation. 	Proteomics,N-glycoproteomics and Phosphoproteomics of SARS-Cov-2 Infected Calu-3 Cells	Calu-3, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-Cov-2	We present an integrated immunopeptidomics and proteomics study of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection to comprehensively decipher the changes in host cells in response to viral infection. Immunopeptidomics analysis identified viral antigens presented by host cells through both class I and class II MHC system for recognition by the adaptive immune system. The host proteome changes were characterized by quantitative proteomics and glycoproteomics and from these data, the activation of toll-like receptor 3-interferon pathway was identified. Glycosylation analysis of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) proteins from the elution and flow-through of immunoprecipitation revealed that SARS-CoV-2 infection changed the glycosylation pattern of certain HLA alleles with different HLA alleles, showing distinct dynamic changes in relative abundance. The difference in the glycosylation and abundance of HLA alleles changed the number of strong binding antigens each allele presented, suggesting the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on antigen presentation is allele-specific. These results could be further exploited to explain the imbalanced response from innate and adaptive immune system in coronavirus disease 2019 cases, which would be helpful for the development of therapeutics and vaccine for coronavirus disease 2019 and preparation for future pandemic.
PXD038392	37709794	N-terminal alpha-amino SUMOylation of cofilin-1 is critical for its regulation of actin depolymerization. 	Identification of N-terminal SUMOylation of mouse cofilin-1 by IP-MS	IP-MS, N-terminal SUMOylation, cofilin-1	Small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) typically conjugates to target proteins through isopeptide linkage to the epsilon-amino group of lysine residues. This posttranslational modification (PTM) plays pivotal roles in modulating protein function. Cofilins are key regulators of actin cytoskeleton dynamics and are well-known to undergo several different PTMs. Here, we show that cofilin-1 is conjugated by SUMO1 both in vitro and in vivo. Using mass spectrometry and biochemical and genetic approaches, we identify the N-terminal alpha-amino group as the SUMO-conjugation site of cofilin-1. Common to conventional SUMOylation is that the N-alpha-SUMOylation of cofilin-1 is also mediated by SUMO activating (E1), conjugating (E2), and ligating (E3) enzymes and reversed by the SUMO deconjugating enzyme, SENP1. Specific to the N-alpha-SUMOylation is the physical association of the E1 enzyme to the substrate, cofilin-1. Using F-actin co-sedimentation and actin depolymerization assays in vitro and fluorescence staining of actin filaments in cells, we show that the N-alpha-SUMOylation promotes cofilin-1 binding to F-actin and cofilin-induced actin depolymerization. This covalent conjugation by SUMO at the N-alpha amino group of cofilin-1, rather than at an internal lysine(s), serves as an essential PTM to tune cofilin-1 function during regulation of actin dynamics.
PXD043913	37712432	Casein kinase 1 and 2 phosphorylate Argonaute proteins to regulate miRNA-mediated gene silencing. 	Casein kinase 1 and 2 phosphorylate a conserved cluster of Argonaute to control microRNA functionCasein kinase 1 and 2 phosphorylate a conserved cluster of Argonaute to control microRNA function	Argonaute/CK1A1/CK2/microRNA/phosphorylation	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) together with Argonaute (AGO) proteins form the core of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) to regulate gene expression of their target RNAs post-transcriptionally. Argonaute proteins are subjected to intensive regulation via various post-translational modifications that can affect their stability, silencing efficacy and specificity for targeted gene regulation. We report here that in Caenorhabditis elegans, two conserved serine/threonine kinases - casein kinase 1 alpha 1 (CK1A1) and casein kinase 2 (CK2) - regulate a highly conserved phosphorylation cluster of 4 Serine residues (S988:S998) on the miRNA-specific AGO protein ALG-1. We show that CK1A1 phosphorylates ALG-1 at sites S992 and S995, while CK2 phosphorylates ALG-1 at sites S988 and S998. Furthermore, we demonstrate that phospho-mimicking mutants of the entire S988:S998 cluster rescue the various developmental defects observed upon depleting CK1A1 and CK2. In humans, we show that CK1A1 also acts as a priming kinase of this cluster on AGO2. Altogether, our data suggest that phosphorylation of AGO within the cluster by CK1A1 and CK2 is required for efficient miRISC-target RNA binding and silencing.
PXD038189	37712700	Multi-integrated approach for unraveling small open reading frames potentially associated with secondary metabolism in Streptomyces. 	Discovering sORF-encoded Peptides Associated with Secondary Metabolism in Streptomyces	Secondary metabolism, Streptomyces, sORF-encoded Peptides	IMPORTANCE: Due to their small size and special chemical features, small open reading frame (smORF)-encoding peptides (SEPs) are often neglected. However, they may play critical roles in regulating gene expression, enzyme activity, and metabolite production. Studies on bacterial microproteins have mainly focused on pathogenic bacteria, which are importance to systematically investigate SEPs in streptomycetes and are rich sources of bioactive secondary metabolites. Our study is the first to perform a global identification of smORFs in streptomycetes. We established a peptidogenomic workflow for non-model microbial strains and identified multiple novel smORFs that are potentially linked to secondary metabolism in streptomycetes. Our multi-integrated approach in this study is meaningful to improve the quality and quantity of the detected smORFs. Ultimately, the workflow we established could be extended to other organisms and would benefit the genome mining of microproteins with critical functions for regulation and engineering useful microorganisms.
PXD041489	37713445	Loss of CorA, the primary magnesium transporter of Salmonella, is alleviated by MgtA and PhoP-dependent compensatory mechanisms. 	Loss of CorA the primary magnesium transporter of Salmonella is alleviated by PhoP and MgtA-dependent mechanisms	Q Exactive plus, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, shotgun proteomics	In many Gram-negative bacteria, the stress sigma factor of RNA polymerase, sigmaS/RpoS, remodels global gene expression to reshape the physiology of stationary phase cells and ensure their survival under non-optimal growth conditions. In the foodborne pathogen Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, sigmaS is also required for biofilm formation and virulence. We have recently shown that a DeltarpoS mutation decreases the magnesium content and expression level of the housekeeping Mg2+-transporter CorA in stationary phase Salmonella. The other two Mg2+-transporters of Salmonella are encoded by the PhoP-activated mgtA and mgtB genes and are expressed under magnesium starvation. The sigmaS control of corA prompted us to evaluate the impact of CorA in stationary phase Salmonella cells, by using global and analytical proteomic analyses and physiological assays. The DeltacorA mutation conferred a competitive disadvantage to exit from stationary phase, and slightly impaired motility, but had no effect on total and free cellular magnesium contents. In contrast to the wild-type strain, the DeltacorA mutant produced MgtA, but not MgtB, in the presence of high extracellular magnesium concentration. Under these conditions, MgtA production in the DeltacorA mutant did not require PhoP. Consistently, a DeltamgtA, but not a DeltaphoP, mutation slightly reduced the magnesium content of the DeltacorA mutant. Synthetic phenotypes were observed when the DeltaphoP and DeltacorA mutations were combined, including a strong reduction in growth and motility, independently of the extracellular magnesium concentration. The abundance of several proteins involved in flagella formation, chemotaxis and secretion was lowered by the DeltacorA and DeltaphoP mutations in combination, but not alone. These findings unravel the importance of PhoP-dependent functions in the absence of CorA when magnesium is sufficient. Altogether, our data pinpoint a regulatory network, where the absence of CorA is sensed by the cell and compensated by MgtA and PhoP- dependent mechanisms.
PXD032398	37713613	Rep protein accommodates together dsDNA and ssDNA which enables a loop-back mechanism to plasmid DNA replication initiation. 	For origin melting Rep nucleoprotein complex accommodates both dsDNA and ssDNA of DUE	DNA replication, Rep proteins, origin opening, protein-DNA interaction, replication initiators	For DNA replication initiation in Bacteria, replication initiation proteins bind to double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) and interact with single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) at the replication origin. The structural-functional relationship of the nucleoprotein complex involving initiator proteins is still elusive and different models are proposed. In this work, based on crosslinking combined with mass spectrometry (MS), the analysis of mutant proteins and crystal structures, we defined amino acid residues essential for the interaction between plasmid Rep proteins, TrfA and RepE, and ssDNA. This interaction and Rep binding to dsDNA could not be provided in trans, and both are important for dsDNA melting at DNA unwinding element (DUE). We solved two crystal structures of RepE: one in a complex with ssDNA DUE, and another with both ssDNA DUE and dsDNA containing RepE-specific binding sites (iterons). The amino acid residues involved in interaction with ssDNA are located in the WH1 domain in stand beta1, helices alpha1 and alpha2 and in the WH2 domain in loops preceding strands beta1' and beta2' and in these strands. It is on the opposite side compared to RepE dsDNA-recognition interface. Our data provide evidence for a loop-back mechanism through which the plasmid replication initiator molecule accommodates together dsDNA and ssDNA.
PXD043689	37713809	Deficiency in AK9 causes asthenozoospermia and male infertility by destabilising sperm nucleotide homeostasis. 	AK9 causes asthenozoospermia and male infertility	AK9, asthenozoospermia, energetic metabolism, intracytoplasmic sperm injection, nucleotides homeostasis	BACKGROUND: Asthenozoospermia is the primary cause of male infertility; however, its genetic aetiology remains poorly understood. Adenylate kinase 9 (AK9) is highly expressed in the testes of humans and mice and encodes a type of adenosine kinase that is functionally involved in cellular nucleotide homeostasis and energy metabolism. We aimed to assess whether AK9 is involved in asthenozoospermia. METHODS: One-hundred-and-sixty-five Chinese men with idiopathic asthenozoospermia were recruited. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and Sanger sequencing were performed for genetic analyses. Papanicolaou staining, Haematoxylin and eosin staining, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy were used to observe the sperm morphology and structure. Ak9-knockout mice were generated using CRISPR-Cas9. Sperm adenosine was detected by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Targeted sperm metabolomics was performed. Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) was used to treat patients. FINDINGS: We identified five patients harbouring bi-allelic AK9 mutations. Spermatozoa from men harbouring bi-allelic AK9 mutations have a decreased ability to sustain nucleotide homeostasis. Moreover, bi-allelic AK9 mutations inhibit glycolysis in sperm. Ak9-knockout male mice also presented similar phenotypes of asthenozoospermia. Interestingly, ICSI was effective in bi-allelic AK9 mutant patients in achieving good pregnancy outcomes. INTERPRETATION: Defects in AK9 induce asthenozoospermia with defects in nucleotide homeostasis and energy metabolism. This sterile phenotype could be rescued by ICSI. FUNDING: The National Natural Science Foundation of China (82071697), Medical Innovation Project of Fujian Province (2020-CXB-051), open project of the NHC Key Laboratory of Male Reproduction and Genetics in Guangzhou (KF202004), Medical Research Foundation of Guangdong Province (A2021269), Guangdong Provincial Reproductive Science Institute Innovation Team grants (C-03), and Outstanding Young Talents Program of Capital Medical University (B2205).
PXD034976	37714153	Chemoproteomic strategy identified p120-catenin glutathionylation regulates E-cadherin degradation and cell migration. 	Clickable glutathione-based Isotope Coded Affinity Label to quantify glutathionylation	LC-MS/MS for glutathionylation in mouse C2C12	Identification of cysteines with high oxidation susceptibility is important for understanding redox-mediated biological processes. In this report, we report a chemical proteomic strategy that finds cysteines with high susceptibility to S-glutathionylation. Our proteomic strategy, named clickable glutathione-based isotope-coded affinity tag (G-ICAT), identified 1,518 glutathionylated cysteines while determining their relative levels of glutathionylated and reduced forms upon adding hydrogen peroxide. Among identified cysteines, we demonstrated that CTNND1 (p120) C692 has high susceptibility to glutathionylation. Also, p120 wild type (WT), compared to C692S, induces its dissociation from E-cadherin under oxidative stress, such as glucose depletion. p120 and E-cadherin dissociation correlated with E-cadherin destabilization via its proteasomal degradation. Lastly, we showed that p120 WT, compared to C692S, increases migration and invasion of MCF7 cells under glucose depletion, supporting a model that p120 C692 glutathionylation increases cell migration and invasion by destabilization of E-cadherin, a core player in cell-cell adhesion.
PXD040403	37714161	Nuclear transport receptor KA120 regulates molecular condensation of MAC3 to coordinate plant immune activation. 	KA120 negatively regulate immunity through inhibit MOS 4-associated-complex forming nuclear condensates	KA120, MAC3B, TurboID, seedling	The nucleocytoplasmic exchange is of fundamental importance to eukaryotic life and is mediated by karyopherins, a superfamily of nuclear transport receptors. However, the function and cargo spectrum of plant karyopherins are largely obscure. Here, we report proximity-labeling-based proteomic profiling of in vivo substrates of KA120, a karyopherin-beta required for suppressing autoimmune induction in Arabidopsis. We identify multiple components of the MOS4-associated complex (MAC), a conserved splicing regulatory protein complex. Surprisingly, we find that KA120 does not affect the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of MAC proteins but rather prevents their protein condensation in the nucleus. Furthermore, we demonstrate that MAC condensation is robustly induced by pathogen infection, which is sufficient to activate defense gene expression, possibly by sequestrating negative immune regulators via phase transition. Our study reveals a noncanonical chaperoning activity of a plant karyopherin, which modulates the nuclear condensation of an evolutionarily conserved splicing regulatory complex to coordinate plant immune activation.
PXD044002	37714840	The lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 inhibitor Darapladib sensitises cancer cells to ferroptosis by remodelling lipid metabolism. 	Darapladib, an inhibitor of Lp-PLA2, sensitises cancer cells to ferroptosis by remodelling lipid metabolism	Cancer cell, Lipidomics, Lp-PLA2	Arachidonic and adrenic acids in the membrane play key roles in ferroptosis. Here, we reveal that lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) controls intracellular phospholipid metabolism and contributes to ferroptosis resistance. A metabolic drug screen reveals that darapladib, an inhibitor of Lp-PLA2, synergistically induces ferroptosis in the presence of GPX4 inhibitors. We show that darapladib is able to enhance ferroptosis under lipoprotein-deficient or serum-free conditions. Furthermore, we find that Lp-PLA2 is located in the membrane and cytoplasm and suppresses ferroptosis, suggesting a critical role for intracellular Lp-PLA2. Lipidomic analyses show that darapladib treatment or deletion of PLA2G7, which encodes Lp-PLA2, generally enriches phosphatidylethanolamine species and reduces lysophosphatidylethanolamine species. Moreover, combination treatment of darapladib with the GPX4 inhibitor PACMA31 efficiently inhibits tumour growth in a xenograft model. Our study suggests that inhibition of Lp-PLA2 is a potential therapeutic strategy to enhance ferroptosis in cancer treatment.
PXD045033	37717054	Genome-wide analysis of DNA-PK-bound MRN cleavage products supports a sequential model of DSB repair pathway choice. 	Human U2OS DNApk GLASS-ChIP LC-MS/MS	DNApk, GLASS-ChIP, U2OS	The Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 (MRN) complex recognizes and processes DNA double-strand breaks for homologous recombination by performing short-range removal of 5' strands. Endonucleolytic processing by MRN requires a stably bound protein at the break site-a role we postulate is played by DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) in mammals. Here we interrogate sites of MRN-dependent processing by identifying sites of CtIP association and by sequencing DNA-PK-bound DNA fragments that are products of MRN cleavage. These intermediates are generated most efficiently when DNA-PK is catalytically blocked, yielding products within 200 bp of the break site, whereas DNA-PK products in the absence of kinase inhibition show greater dispersal. Use of light-activated Cas9 to induce breaks facilitates temporal resolution of DNA-PK and Mre11 binding, showing that both complexes bind to DNA ends before release of DNA-PK-bound products. These results support a sequential model of double-strand break repair involving collaborative interactions between homologous and non-homologous repair complexes.
PXD039976	37717680	Low-dose Cu exposure enhanced alpha-synuclein accumulation associates with mitochondrial impairments in mice model of Parkinson's disease. 	Low-dose Cu exposure enhanced alpha-synuclein accumolation associates with  mitochondtial impairments in mouse model of Parkinson's disease	Copper, Mitochondrial, Neurodegenerative, Parkinsons disease, alpha-synuclein	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that mainly affects the elder population, and its etiology is enigmatic. Both environmental risks and genetics may influence the development of PD. Excess copper causes neurotoxicity and accelerates the progression of neurodegenerative diseases. However, the underlying mechanisms of copper-induced neurotoxicity remain controversial. In this study, A53T transgenic alpha-synuclein (A53T) mice and their matching wild-type (WT) mice were treated with a low dose of copper (0.13 ppm copper chlorinated drinking water, equivalent to the copper exposure of human daily copper intake dose) for 4 months, and copper poisoning was performed on human A53T mutant SHSY5Y cells overexpressed with alpha-synuclein (dose of 1/4 IC50), to test the effects of copper exposure on the body. The results of the open field test showed that the moto function of Cu-treated mice was impaired. Proteomics revealed changes in neurodevelopment, transport function, and mitochondrial membrane-related function in Cu-treated WT mice, which were associated with reduced expression of mitochondrial complex (NDUFA10, ATP5A), dopamine neurons (TH), and dopamine transporter (DAT). Mitochondrial function, nervous system development, synaptic function, and immune response were altered in Cu-treated A53T mice. These changes were associated with increased mitochondrial splitting protein (Drp1), decreased mitochondrial fusion protein (OPA1, Mfn1), abnormalities in mitochondrial autophagy protein (LC3BII/I, P62), decreased dopamine neuron (TH) expression, increased alpha-synuclein expression, inflammatory factors (IL-6, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha) release and microglia (Iba1) activation. In addition, we found that Cu(2+) (30 muM) induced excessive ROS production and reduced mitochondrial ATP production in human A53T mutant alpha-synuclein overexpressing SHSY5Y cells by in vitro experiments. In conclusion, low-dose copper treatment altered critical proteins involved in mitochondrial, neurodevelopmental, and inflammatory responses and affected mitochondria's ROS and ATP production levels.
PXD042256	37719017	Molecular profiling and specific targeting of gemcitabine-resistant subclones in heterogeneous pancreatic cancer cell populations. 	Molecular profiling and specific targeting of gemcitabine-resistant subclones in heterogeneous pancreatic cancer cell populations	Pancreatic cancer, chemotherapy, gemcitabine, intratumor heterogeneity, treatment response	Purpose: Chemotherapy is pivotal in the multimodal treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Technical advances unveiled a high degree of inter- and intratumoral heterogeneity. We hypothesized that intratumoral heterogeneity (ITH) impacts response to gemcitabine treatment and demands specific targeting of resistant subclones. Methods: Using single cell-derived cell lines (SCDCLs) from the classical cell line BxPC3 and the basal-like cell line Panc-1, we addressed the effect of ITH on response to gemcitabine treatment. Results: Individual SCDCLs of both parental tumor cell populations showed considerable heterogeneity in response to gemcitabine. Unsupervised PCA including the 1,000 most variably expressed genes showed a clustering of the SCDCLs according to their respective sensitivity to gemcitabine treatment for BxPC3, while this was less clear for Panc-1. In BxPC3 SCDCLs, enriched signaling pathways EMT, TNF signaling via NfKB, and IL2STAT5 signaling correlated with more resistant behavior to gemcitabine. In Panc-1 SCDCLs MYC targets V1 and V2 as well as E2F targets were associated with stronger resistance. We used recursive feature elimination for Feature Selection in order to compute sets of proteins that showed strong association with the response to gemcitabine. The optimal protein set calculated for Panc-1 comprised fewer proteins in comparison to the protein set determined for BxPC3. Based on molecular profiles, we could show that the gemcitabine-resistant SCDCLs of both BxPC3 and Panc-1 are more sensitive to the BET inhibitor JQ1 compared to the respective gemcitabine-sensitive SCDCLs. Conclusion: Our model system of SCDCLs identified gemcitabine-resistant subclones and provides evidence for the critical role of ITH for treatment response in PDAC. We exploited molecular differences as the basis for differential response and used these for more targeted therapy of resistant subclones.
PXD043615	37719269	Venomics of the milos viper (Macrovipera schweizeri) unveils patterns of venom composition and exochemistry across blunt-nosed viper venoms. 	Venomics of the Milos viper (Macrovipera schweizeri)	Blunt-nosed vipers, bioactivity, snakebite, venom	Introduction: Snakebite is a neglected tropical disease and a globally important driver of death and morbidity. Vipers of the genus Macrovipera (Viperidae: Viperinae) are among the snakes of higher medical importance in the Old World. Despite the medical relevance of Macrovipera venoms, the knowledge regarding them is heterogeneously distributed with virtually all works conducted so far focusing on subspecies of Macrovipera lebetinus, while other species within the genus are largely overlooked. Here we present the first proteomic evaluation of the venom from the Greek endemic Milos viper (Macrovipera schweizeri). In line with clinical symptoms typically elicited by Macrovipera envenomations, Milos viper venom primarily comprises coagulotoxic and cytotoxic protein families, such as metalloproteinases (svMP) and serine proteases (svSP). Methods: We conducted comparative bioactivity assays on venoms from M. schweizeri and the M. lebetinus subspecies M. lebetinus cernovi, M. lebetinus obtusa, and M. lebetinus turanica, and showed that they all exhibit similarities in levels of cytotoxicity proteolytic activity, and inhibition of prokaryotic growth. Lastly, we compared Macrovipera venom profiles by 1D-SDS-PAGE and RP-HPLC, as well as our proteomic data with previously published Macrovipera venom proteomes. Results and discussion: The analyzes performed to reveal that a general venom profile seems to be conserved across blunt-nosed vipers, and that, M. schweizeri envenomations, similarly to those caused by other blunt-nosed vipers, are able to cause significant tissue damage. The present work represents an important starting point for the development of comparative studies across the full taxonomic range of the genus Macrovipera and can potentially help optimize the treatment of envenomations caused by M. schweizeri.
PXD039731	37720100	Identification of SIRT3 as an eraser of H4K16la. 	After enriching U251 cell lysate by a lactic probe with a photo-cross linker and a corresponding control probe without lactic modification to find related reader or eraser, the protein enriched were identified by Lc-MS (three replicates)	PTM, U251, eraser, lactic probe, lactylation	Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a novel histone post-translational modification discovered in late 2019. Later, HDAC1-3, were identified as the robust Kla erasers. While the Sirtuin family proteins showed weak eraser activities toward Kla, as reported. However, the catalytic mechanisms and physiological functions of HDACs and Sirtuins are not identical. In this study, we observed that SIRT3 exhibits a higher eraser activity against the H4K16la site than the other human Sirtuins. Crystal structures revealed the detailed binding mechanisms between lactyl-lysine peptides and SIRT3. Furthermore, a chemical probe, p-H4K16laAlk, was developed to capture potential Kla erasers from cell lysates. SIRT3 was captured by this probe and detected via proteomic analysis. And another chemical probe, p-H4K16la-NBD, was developed to detect the eraser-Kla delactylation processes directly via fluorescence indication. Our findings and chemical probes provide new directions for further investigating Kla and its roles in gene transcription regulation.
PXD039706	37722046	BRWD3 promotes KDM5 degradation to maintain H3K4 methylation levels. 	BRWD3 targets KDM5/Lid for degradation to maintain H3K4 methylation levels	BRWD3, E3 ubiquitin ligase, H3K4, degradation, histone	Histone modifications are critical for regulating chromatin structure and gene expression. Dysregulation of histone modifications likely contributes to disease states and cancer. Depletion of the chromatin-binding protein BRWD3 (Bromodomain and WD repeat-containing protein 3), a known substrate-specificity factor of the Cul4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, results in increased H3K4me1 (H3 lysine 4 monomethylation) levels. The underlying mechanism linking BRWD3 and H3K4 methylation, however, has yet to be defined. Here, we show that depleting BRWD3 not only causes an increase in H3K4me1 levels but also causes a decrease in H3K4me3 (H3 lysine 4 trimethylation) levels, indicating that BRWD3 influences H3K4 methylation more broadly. Using immunoprecipitation coupled to quantitative mass spectrometry, we identified an interaction between BRWD3 and the H3K4-specific lysine demethylase 5 (KDM5/Lid), an enzyme that removes tri- and dimethyl marks from H3K4. Moreover, analysis of ChIP-seq (chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing) data revealed that BRWD3 and KDM5 are significantly colocalized throughout the genome and H3K4me3 are highly enriched at BRWD3 binding sites. We show that BRWD3 promotes K48-linked polyubiquitination and degradation of KDM5 and that KDM5 degradation is dependent on both BRWD3 and Cul4. Critically, depleting KDM5 fully restores altered H3K4me3 levels and partially restores H3K4me1 levels upon BRWD3 depletion. Together, our results demonstrate that BRWD3 regulates KDM5 activity to balance H3K4 methylation levels.
PXD044809	37726316	SEPepQuant enhances the detection of possible isoform regulations in shotgun proteomics. 	SEPepQuant enhances the detection of possible isoform regulations in shotgun proteomics	Shotgun proteomics, protein isoform, quantification	Shotgun proteomics is essential for protein identification and quantification in biomedical research, but protein isoform characterization is challenging due to the extensive number of peptides shared across proteins, hindering our understanding of protein isoform regulation and their roles in normal and disease biology. We systematically assess the challenge and opportunities of shotgun proteomics-based protein isoform characterization using in silico and experimental data, and then present SEPepQuant, a graph theory-based approach to maximize isoform characterization. Using published data from one induced pluripotent stem cell study and two human hepatocellular carcinoma studies, we demonstrate the ability of SEPepQuant in addressing the key limitations of existing methods, providing more comprehensive isoform-level characterization, identifying hundreds of isoform-level regulation events, and facilitating streamlined cross-study comparisons. Our analysis provides solid evidence to support a widespread role of protein isoform regulation in normal and disease processes, and SEPepQuant has broad applications to biological and translational research.
PXD041361	37726403	Low glucose metabolite 3-phosphoglycerate switches PHGDH from serine synthesis to p53 activation to control cell fate. 	Low glucose metabolite 3-phosphoglycerate switches PHGDH from serine synthesis to p53 activation to control cell fate	glucose starvation, p53 interacting proteins	Glycolytic intermediary metabolites such as fructose-1,6-bisphosphate can serve as signals, controlling metabolic states beyond energy metabolism. However, whether glycolytic metabolites also play a role in controlling cell fate remains unexplored. Here, we find that low levels of glycolytic metabolite 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) can switch phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) from cataplerosis serine synthesis to pro-apoptotic activation of p53. PHGDH is a p53-binding protein, and when unoccupied by 3-PGA interacts with the scaffold protein AXIN in complex with the kinase HIPK2, both of which are also p53-binding proteins. This leads to the formation of a multivalent p53-binding complex that allows HIPK2 to specifically phosphorylate p53-Ser46 and thereby promote apoptosis. Furthermore, we show that PHGDH mutants (R135W and V261M) that are constitutively bound to 3-PGA abolish p53 activation even under low glucose conditions, while the mutants (T57A and T78A) unable to bind 3-PGA cause constitutive p53 activation and apoptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, even in the presence of high glucose. In vivo, PHGDH-T57A induces apoptosis and inhibits the growth of diethylnitrosamine-induced mouse HCC, whereas PHGDH-R135W prevents apoptosis and promotes HCC growth, and knockout of Trp53 abolishes these effects above. Importantly, caloric restriction that lowers whole-body glucose levels can impede HCC growth dependent on PHGDH. Together, these results unveil a mechanism by which glucose availability autonomously controls p53 activity, providing a new paradigm of cell fate control by metabolic substrate availability.
PXD039546	37726478	Characterizing the mutational burden, DNA methylation landscape, and proteome of germ cell tumor-related somatic-type malignancies to identify the tissue-of-origin, mechanisms of therapy resistance, and druggable targets. 	Proteome characterization of germ cell tumor-related somatic-type malignancies for the identification of tissue origin, cisplatin resistance mechanisms, and putative therapeutic options	Germ cell tumors, somatic-type malignancy, therapy resistance, yolk-sac tumors	BACKGROUND: Germ cell tumors (GCT) might undergo transformation into a somatic-type malignancy (STM), resulting in a cell fate switch to tumors usually found in somatic tissues, such as rhabdomyosarcomas or adenocarcinomas. STM is associated with a poor prognosis, but the molecular and epigenetic mechanisms triggering STM are still enigmatic, the tissue-of-origin is under debate and biomarkers are lacking. METHODS: To address these questions, we characterized a unique cohort of STM tissues on mutational, epigenetic and protein level using modern and high-throughput methods like TSO assays, 850k DNA methylation arrays and mass spectrometry. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, we show that based on DNA methylation and proteome data carcinoma-related STM more closely resemble yolk-sac tumors, while sarcoma-related STM resemble teratoma. STM harbor mutations in FGF signaling factors (FGF6/23, FGFR1/4) highlighting the corresponding pathway as a therapeutic target. Furthermore, STM utilize signaling pathways, like AKT, FGF, MAPK, and WNT to mediate molecular functions coping with oxidative stress, toxin transport, DNA helicase activity, apoptosis and the cell cycle. Collectively, these data might explain the high therapy resistance of STM. Finally, we identified putative novel biomarkers secreted by STM, like EFEMP1, MIF, and DNA methylation at specific CpG dinucleotides.
PXD041859	37726509	Identification of protein biomarkers associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia in human amniotic fluid. 	Identification of potential protein biomarkers associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia in human amniotic fluid	Amniotic fluid, Galectin-3, Osteopontin, Surfactant Protein B, kallikrein-5	Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a severe birth defect frequently associated with pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary hypertension, and heart failure. Since amniotic fluid comprises proteins of both fetal and maternal origin, its analysis could provide insights on mechanisms underlying CDH and provide biomarkers for early diagnosis, severity of pulmonary changes and treatment response. The study objective was to identify proteomic changes in amniotic fluid consistently associated with CDH. Amniotic fluid was obtained at term (37-39 weeks) from women with normal pregnancies (n = 5) or carrying fetuses with CDH (n = 5). After immuno-depletion of the highest abundance proteins, off-line fractionation and high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry were performed and quantitative differences between the proteomes of the groups were determined. Of 1036 proteins identified, 218 were differentially abundant. Bioinformatics analysis showed significant changes in GP6 signaling, in the MSP-RON signaling in macrophages pathway and in networks associated with cardiovascular system development and function, connective tissue disorders and dermatological conditions. Differences in selected proteins, namely pulmonary surfactant protein B, osteopontin, kallikrein 5 and galectin-3 were validated by orthogonal testing using ELISA in larger cohorts and showed statistically significant differences aiding in the diagnosis and prediction of CDH. The findings provide potential tools for clinical management of CDH.
PXD044919	37726733	High-intensity interval training induces lactylation of fatty acid synthase to inhibit lipid synthesis. 	Proteomic Analysis of Lysine lactylation in adipose tissue of HIIT mice	Fat loss, Fatty acid synthase, High-intensity interval training, Lactylation	BACKGROUND: The aim of study was to observe the effect of increased lactate levels during high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on protein lactylation, identify the target protein, and investigate the regulatory effect of lactylation on the function of the protein. METHODS: C57B/L6 mice were divided into 3 groups: the control group, HIIT group, and dichloroacetate injection + HIIT group (DCA + HIIT). The HIIT and DCA + HIIT groups underwent 8 weeks of HIIT treatment, and the DCA + HIIT group was injected DCA before HIIT treatment. The expression of lipid metabolism-related genes was determined. Protein lactylation in subcutaneous adipose tissue was identified and analyzed using 4D label-free lactylation quantitative proteomics and bioinformatics analyses. The fatty acid synthase (FASN) lactylation and activity was determined. RESULTS: HIIT had a significant effect on fat loss; this effect was weakened when lactate production was inhibited. HIIT significantly upregulated the protein lactylation while lactate inhibition downregulated in iWAT. FASN had the most modification sites. Lactate treatment increased FASN lactylation levels, inhibited FASN activity, and reduced palmitate and triglyceride synthesis in 3T3-L1 cells. CONCLUSIONS: This investigation revealed that lactate produced by HIIT increased protein pan-lactylation levels in iWAT. FASN lactylation inhibited de novo lipogenesis, which may be an important mechanism in HIIT-induced fat loss.
PXD038495	37728561	Methyl viologen induced changes in the Arabidopsis proteome implicate PATELLIN 4 in oxidative stress responses. 	Proteome-wide mapping of early events connected to oxidative stress in Arabidopsis	Arabidsopsis, Orbitrap, fsd1 mutants, oxidative stress	The photosynthesis-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species in chloroplasts can lead to oxidative stress, triggering changes in protein synthesis, degradation, and the assembly/disassembly of protein complexes. We identified methyl viologen (MV)-induced changes in protein abundance in wild type (WT) Arabidopsis and in the oxidative stress-hypersensitive fsd1-1 and fsd1-2 knockout mutants that are deficient in the chloroplast IRON SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE, FSD1, using shot-gun proteomics. The levels of proteins that are localized in chloroplasts and the cytoplasm were modified in all lines treated with MV. The fsd1 mutants showed significant remodelling of metabolic protein and chloroplast chaperone levels, together with increases in cytoplasmic, peroxisomal and mitochondrial proteins compared to the WT. Different responses in proteins involved in the disassembly of photosystem II/light harvesting chlorophyll a/b binding proteins were observed. Moreover, the abundance of PATELLIN 4, a phospholipid-binding protein highly expressed in stomata precursors, was decreased in response to MV. Reverse genetic studies using patl4 knockout mutants and a PATL4 complemented line indicate that PATELLIN 4 affects plants responses to oxidative stress by effects on stomatal closure.
PXD041935	37728749	Analysis of complex proteoglycans using serial proteolysis and EThcD provides deep N- and O-glycoproteomic coverage. 	N- and O-Glycoproteomic Analysis of Complex Proteoglycans	Proteoglycans, glycoproteomics, tandem mass spectrometry	Proteoglycans are a small but diverse family of proteins that play a wide variety of roles at the cell surface and in the extracellular matrix. In addition to their glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains, they are N- and O-glycosylated. All of these types of glycosylation are crucial to their function but present a considerable analytical challenge. We describe the combination of serial proteolysis followed by the application of higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) and electron transfer/higher-energy collisional dissociation (EThcD) to optimize protein sequence coverage and glycopeptide identification from proteoglycans. In many cases, the use of HCD alone allows the identification of more glycopeptides. However, the localization of glycoforms on multiply glycosylated peptides has remained elusive. We demonstrate the use of EThcD for the confident assignment of glycan compositions on multiply glycosylated peptides. Dense glycosylation on proteoglycans is key to their biological function; thus, developing tools to identify and quantify doubly glycosylated peptides is of interest. Additionally, glycoproteomics searches identify glycopeptides in otherwise poorly covered regions of proteoglycans. The development of these and other analytical tools may permit glycoproteomic similarity comparisons in biological samples.
PXD043944	37730157	The interactome of the UapA transporter reveals putative new players in anterograde membrane cargo trafficking. 	The interactome of the UapA transporter reveals putative new players in anterograde membrane cargo trafficking: artA: UapA-TurboID	A. nidulans, COPI, COPII, ER-exit, Golgi-bypass, Proximity Dependent Biotinylation, UapA, fungi, traffic	Neosynthesized plasma membrane (PM) proteins co-translationally translocate to the ER, concentrate at regions called ER-exit sites (ERes) and pack into COPII secretory vesicles which are sorted to the early-Golgi through membrane fusion. Following Golgi maturation, membrane cargoes reach the late-Golgi, from where they exit in clathrin-coated vesicles destined to the PM, directly or through endosomes. Post-Golgi membrane cargo trafficking also involves the cytoskeleton and the exocyst. The Golgi-dependent secretory pathway is thought to be responsible for the trafficking of all major membrane proteins. However, our recent findings in Aspergillus nidulans showed that several plasma membrane cargoes, such as transporters and receptors, follow a sorting route that seems to bypass Golgi functioning. To gain insight on membrane trafficking and specifically Golgi-bypass, here we used proximity dependent biotinylation (PDB) coupled with data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) for identifying transient interactors of the UapA transporter. Our assays, which included proteomes of wild-type and mutant strains affecting ER-exit or endocytosis, identified both expected and novel interactions that might be physiologically relevant to UapA trafficking. Among those, we validated, using reverse genetics and fluorescence microscopy, that COPI coatomer is essential for ER-exit and anterograde trafficking of UapA and other membrane cargoes. We also showed that ArfA(Arf1) GTPase activating protein (GAP) Glo3 contributes to UapA trafficking at increased temperature. This is the first report addressing the identification of transient interactions during membrane cargo biogenesis using PDB and proteomics coupled with fungal genetics. Our work provides a basis for dissecting dynamic membrane cargo trafficking via PDB assays.
PXD038115	37730182	Protein Kinase Signaling Networks Driven by Oncogenic Gq/11 in Uveal Melanoma Identified by Phosphoproteomic and Bioinformatic Analyses. 	Oncogenic pathways in uveal melanoma identified by phosphoproteomic analysis	FR900359, G-proteins, Kinases, Phosphoproteomics, Uveal melanoma	Metastatic uveal melanoma (UM) patients typically survive only 2 to 3 years because effective therapy does not yet exist. Here, to facilitate the discovery of therapeutic targets in UM, we have identified protein kinase signaling mechanisms elicited by the drivers in 90% of UM tumors: mutant constitutively active G protein alpha-subunits encoded by GNAQ (Gq) or GNA11 (G11). We used the highly specific Gq/11 inhibitor FR900359 (FR) to elucidate signaling networks that drive proliferation, metabolic reprogramming, and dedifferentiation of UM cells. We determined the effects of FR on the proteome and phosphoproteome of UM cells as indicated by bioinformatic analyses with CausalPath and site-specific gene set enrichment analysis. We found that inhibition of oncogenic Gq/11 caused deactivation of PKC, Erk, and the cyclin-dependent kinases CDK1 and CDK2 that drive proliferation. Inhibition of oncogenic Gq/11 in UM cells with low metastatic risk relieved inhibitory phosphorylation of polycomb-repressive complex subunits that regulate melanocytic redifferentiation. Site-specific gene set enrichment analysis, unsupervised analysis, and functional studies indicated that mTORC1 and 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-biphosphatase 2 drive metabolic reprogramming in UM cells. Together, these results identified protein kinase signaling networks driven by oncogenic Gq/11 that regulate critical aspects of UM cell biology and provide targets for therapeutic investigation.
PXD039064	37730435	Translational control by Trypanosoma brucei DRBD18 contributes to the maintenance of the procyclic state. 	Translational control by Trypanosoma brucei DRBD18 contributes to the maintenance of the procyclic state	DRBD18, IonStar, Trypanosoma brucei	Trypanosoma brucei occupies distinct niches throughout its life cycle, within both the mammalian and tsetse fly hosts. The immunological and biochemical complexity and variability of each of these environments require a reshaping of the protein landscape of the parasite both to evade surveillance and face changing metabolic demands. In kinetoplastid protozoa, including T. brucei, posttranscriptional control mechanisms are the primary means of gene regulation, and these are often mediated by RNA-binding proteins. DRBD18 is a T. brucei RNA-binding protein that reportedly interacts with ribosomal proteins and translation factors. Here, we tested a role for DRBD18 in translational control. We validate the DRBD18 interaction with translating ribosomes and the translation initiation factor, eIF3a. We further show that DRBD18 depletion by RNA interference leads to altered polysomal profiles with a specific depletion of heavy polysomes. Ribosome profiling analysis reveals that 101 transcripts change in translational efficiency (TE) upon DRBD18 depletion: 41 exhibit decreased TE and 60 exhibit increased TE. A further 66 transcripts are buffered, that is, changes in transcript abundance are compensated by changes in TE such that the total translational output is expected not to change. In DRBD18-depleted cells, a set of transcripts that codes for procyclic form-specific proteins is translationally repressed while, conversely, transcripts that code for bloodstream form- and metacyclic form-specific proteins are translationally enhanced. RNA immunoprecipitation/qRT-PCR indicates that DRBD18 associates with members of both repressed and enhanced cohorts. These data suggest that DRBD18 contributes to the maintenance of the procyclic state through both positive and negative translational control of specific mRNAs.
PXD036918	37731707	High-throughput Proteomics Identifies THEMIS2 as Independent Biomarker of Treatment-free Survival in Untreated CLL. 	High-throughput proteomics identifies THEMIS2 as independent biomarker of inferior treatment-free survival in untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia	THEMIS2, biomarker, chronic lymphocytic leukemia	It remains challenging in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to distinguish between patients with favorable and unfavorable time-to-first treatment (TTFT). Additionally, the downstream protein correlates of well-known molecular features of CLL are not always clear. To address this, we selected 40 CLL patients with TTFT <=24 months and compared their B cell intracellular protein expression with 40 age- and sex-matched CLL patients with TTFT >24 months using mass spectrometry. In total, 3268 proteins were quantified in the cohort. Immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) mutational status and trisomy 12 were most impactful on the CLL proteome. Comparing cases to controls, 5 proteins were significantly upregulated, whereas 3 proteins were significantly downregulated. Of these, only THEMIS2, a signaling protein acting downstream of the B cell receptor, was significantly associated with TTFT, independently of IGHV and TP53 mutational status (hazard ratio, 2.49 [95% confidence interval, 1.62-3.84]; P < 0.001). This association was validated on the mRNA and protein level by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and ELISA, respectively. Analysis of 2 independently generated RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry datasets confirmed the association between THEMIS2 expression and clinical outcome. In conclusion, we present a comprehensive characterization of the proteome of untreated CLL and identify THEMIS2 expression as a putative biomarker of TTFT.
PXD039060	37733740	Pathogenic bacteria exploit transferrin receptor transcytosis to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. 	Pathogenic Bacteria Exploit Transferrin Receptor Transcytosis to Penetrate the BloodBrain Barrier	LC-MS, hbmec	The human blood-brain barrier (BBB) comprises a single layer of brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs) protecting the brain from bloodborne pathogens. Meningitis is among the most serious diseases, but the mechanisms by which major meningitis-causing bacterial pathogens cross the BBB to reach the brain remain poorly understood. We found that Streptococcus pneumoniae, group B Streptococcus, and neonatal meningitis Escherichia coli commonly exploit a unique vesicle fusion mechanism to hitchhike on transferrin receptor (TfR) transcytosis to cross the BBB and illustrated the details of this process in human BBB model in vitro and mouse model. Toll-like receptor signals emanating from bacteria-containing vesicles (BCVs) trigger K33-linked polyubiquitination at Lys168 and Lys181 of the innate immune regulator TRAF3 and then activate the formation of a protein complex containing the guanine nucleotide exchange factor RCC2, the small GTPase RalA and exocyst subcomplex I (SC I) on BCVs. The distinct function of SEC6 in SC I, interacting directly with RalA on BCVs and the SNARE protein SNAP23 on TfR vesicles, tethers these two vesicles and initiates the fusion. Our results reveal that innate immunity triggers a unique modification of TRAF3 and the formation of the HBMEC-specific protein complex on BCVs to authenticate the precise recognition and selection of TfR vesicles to fuse with and facilitate bacterial penetration of the BBB.
PXD044897	37733743	Small molecule activators of TAK1 promotes its activity-dependent ubiquitination and TRAIL-mediated tumor cell death. 	R406 binding site on TAK1 identified by MS	R406, TAK1	TAK1 is a key modulator of both NF-kappaB signaling and RIPK1. In TNF signaling pathway, activation of TAK1 directly mediates the phosphorylation of IKK complex and RIPK1. In a search for small molecule activators of RIPK1-mediated necroptosis, we found R406/R788, two small molecule analogs that could promote sustained activation of TAK1. Treatment with R406 sensitized cells to TNF-mediated necroptosis and RIPK1-dependent apoptosis by promoting sustained RIPK1 activation. Using click chemistry and multiple biochemical binding assays, we showed that treatment with R406 promotes the activation of TAK1 by directly binding to TAK1, independent of its original target Syk kinase. Treatment with R406 promoted the ubiquitination of TAK1 and the interaction of activated TAK1 with ubiquitinated RIPK1. Finally, we showed that R406/R788 could promote the cancer-killing activities of TRAIL in vitro and in mouse models. Our studies demonstrate the possibility of developing small molecule TAK1 activators to potentiate the effect of TRAIL as anticancer therapies.
PXD042408	37734435	Integrated proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses of esophageal cancer cells with different invasive abilities. 	Integrated proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses of esophageal cancer cell with different invasive abilities	different invasive abilities, esophageal cancer, phosphoproteomics	AIMS: Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is one of the aggressive and lethal malignancies with an extremely poor prognosis. It is necessary to explore the molecular mechanisms of ESCC invasion. MAIN METHODS: We utilized high-throughput mass spectrometry to analyze the proteomes and phosphorylation profiles of two ESCC cell lines with differing invasion capacities (HK vs TE10). Differentially expressed proteins and phosphorites were identified, followed by comprehensive bioinformatics analyses encompassing function and pathway enrichment, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, hub gene identification, co-expression analysis, kinase-substrate prediction, and drug-target network analysis. CCK-8 assay, transwell examination, wound-healing assay, and western blot was used to validate the effects of fostamatinib on ESCC cells proliferation, invasion, migration, and LYN expression. KEY FINDINGS: The Q4 cluster of differentially phosphorylated proteins was primarily associated with functions and pathways relevant to tumor metastasis. Phosphorylated hub proteins including ARHGAP35, CTNNA1, and SHC1 were identified through the analysis of PPI network, and their respective regulated kinases were predicted. Among the predicted kinases, LYN was validated to be associated with lymph node metastasis (N0 vs. N1-3) and prognosis in ESCC patients at mRNA levels using TGGA data and protein levels in ESCC tissues (p < 0.05). Validation experiments confirmed the inhibitory effects of fostamatinib on ESCC cells proliferation, migration, invasion, and LYN expression. SIGNIFICANCE: Our multi-omics analysis offers deeper perspectives on ESCC invasiveness and unveils new phosphorylated hub proteins with their regulatory kinase. This study also suggests that fostamatinib may be a potential agent for treating ESCC.
PXD041616	37734557	Hybrid insulin peptide isomers spontaneously form in pancreatic beta-cells from an aspartic anhydride intermediate. 	NOD Mouse Islet Peptide Content Identification	HIPs, NOD mouse, islet cells, peptides	Hybrid insulin peptides (HIPs) form in beta-cells when insulin fragments link to other peptides through a peptide bond. HIPs contain nongenomic amino acid sequences and have been identified as targets for autoreactive T cells in type 1 diabetes. A subgroup of HIPs, in which N-terminal amine groups of various peptides are linked to aspartic acid residues of insulin C-peptide, was detected through mass spectrometry in pancreatic islets. Here, we investigate a novel mechanism that leads to the formation of these HIPs in human and murine islets. Our research herein shows that these HIPs form spontaneously in beta-cells through a mechanism involving an aspartic anhydride intermediate. This mechanism leads to the formation of a regular HIP containing a standard peptide bond as well as a HIP-isomer containing an isopeptide bond by linkage to the carboxylic acid side chain of the aspartic acid residue. We used mass spectrometric analyses to confirm the presence of both HIP isomers in islets, thereby validating the occurrence of this novel reaction mechanism in beta-cells. The spontaneous formation of new peptide bonds within cells may lead to the development of neoepitopes that contribute to the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes as well as other autoimmune diseases.
PXD041190	37737267	Identification of mouse soleus muscle proteins altered in response to changes in gravity loading. 	Identification of gravity-responsive proteins in mouse soleus muscle using proteomic analysis	hindlimb unloading, hypergravity, microgravity, soleus muscle, spaceflight	Gravity-dependent physical processes strongly affect the ability of elderly people to maintain musculoskeletal health by reducing muscle atrophy and increasing bone mineral density, thereby increasing quality of life. A need therefore exists to identify molecules in the musculoskeletal system that are responsive to gravitational loading and to establish an objective indicator for the maintenance of healthy musculoskeletal systems. Here, we performed an integrated assessment of the results of soleus muscle proteomic analyses in three model mouse experiments under different gravity environments (hypergravity, hindlimb unloading, and spaceflight). Myl6b, Gpd1, Fbp2, Pvalb, and Actn3 were shown to be gravity-responsive muscle proteins, and alterations in the levels of these proteins indicated changes in muscle fiber type to slow-twitch type due to gravity loading. In addition, immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays revealed that Pvalb levels in the sera of hindlimb-unloaded mice and osteoporosis patients were higher than in control subjects, suggesting that Pvalb levels might be useful to objectively evaluate soleus muscle atrophy and bone loss.
PXD037293	37737587	Constitutive proteins of lumpy skin disease virion assessed by next-generation proteomics. 	Proteomic analysis of lumpy skin disease virion (strain KSGP 0240).	host, mature virion, pathogen, poxvirus, structure, viral particle, virus	Lumpy skin disease (LSD) virus, a ruminant poxvirus of the Capripoxvirus genus, is the etiologic agent of an economically important cattle disease categorized as a notifiable disease by the World Organisation for Animal Health. The large and complex enveloped LSD virus (LSDV) particle encloses a double-stranded linear DNA genome of 151 kbp, comprising 156 predicted ORFs, together with a variety of proteins that are not yet identified. In parallel with a recent widespread expansion of LSD, many LSDV whole genomes have been sequenced, but knowledge on protein composition of the LSDV particle remains missing. In this study, LSD mature virions (MV) from strain KSGP-0240 were purified through a multistep ultracentrifugation process. The protein composition of LSD virions was then analyzed using label-free shotgun proteomics, based upon nano-liquid chromatography (LC) and tandem mass spectrometry. This procedure resulted in the identification of a total of 111 LSDV proteins. Considering that this first MV proteome extended beyond packaged proteins into the field of contaminants, an analytical methodology was developed and made it possible to select 66 viral proteins as candidates for packaging into MV. These viral proteins were analyzed comparatively with proteins previously demonstrated to be constitutive of the vaccinia virus MV particle. Offering for the first time a comprehensive proteomic analysis of an LSDV strain, this study contributes to our understanding of the structural features of infectious LSDV MV particles and paves the way for further systematic proteomic characterization of other LSDV strains. IMPORTANCE Lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) is the causative agent of an economically important cattle disease which is notifiable to the World Organisation for Animal Health. Over the past decades, the disease has spread at an alarming rate throughout the African continent, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, the Russian Federation, and many Asian countries. While multiple LDSV whole genomes have made further genetic comparative analyses possible, knowledge on the protein composition of the LSDV particle remains lacking. This study provides for the first time a comprehensive proteomic analysis of an infectious LSDV particle, prompting new efforts toward further proteomic LSDV strain characterization. Furthermore, this first incursion within the capripoxvirus proteome represents one of very few proteomic studies beyond the sole Orthopoxvirus genus, for which most of the proteomics studies have been performed. Providing new information about other chordopoxviruses may contribute to shedding new light on protein composition within the Poxviridae family.
PXD046825	37737643	Mass Spectrometric Profiling of HLA-B44 Peptidomes Provides Evidence for Tapasin-Mediated Tryptophan Editing. 	Mass spectrometric profiling of HLA-B44 peptidomes provides evidence for tapasin-mediated tryptophan editing	HLA class I, HLA-B*44:02, HLA-B*44:05, Half-life, Immunopeptidome, MHC class I, Peptide loading complex, Tapasin, Tryptophan, peptide binding affinity	The extreme polymorphisms of HLA class I proteins result in structural variations in their peptide binding sites to achieve diversity in Ag presentation. External factors could independently constrict or alter HLA class I peptide repertoires. Such effects of the assembly factor tapasin were assessed for HLA-B*44:05 (Y116) and a close variant, HLA-B*44:02 (D116), which have low and high tapasin dependence, respectively, for their cell surface expression. Analyses of the HLA-B*44:05 peptidomes in the presence and absence of tapasin reveal that peptides with C-terminal tryptophans and higher predicted affinities are preferentially selected by tapasin, coincident with reduced frequencies of peptides with other C-terminal amino acids, including leucine. Comparisons of the HLA-B*44:05 and HLA-B*44:02 peptidomes indicate the expected structure-based alterations near the peptide C termini, but also C-terminal amino acid frequency and predicted affinity changes among the unique and shared peptide groups for B*44:02 and B*44:05. Overall, these findings indicate that the presence of tapasin and the tapasin dependence of assembly alter HLA class I peptide-binding preferences at the peptide C terminus. The particular C-terminal amino acid preferences that are altered by tapasin are expected to be determined by the intrinsic peptide-binding specificities of HLA class I allotypes. Additionally, the findings suggest that tapasin deficiency and reduced tapasin dependence expand the permissive affinities of HLA class I-bound peptides, consistent with prior findings that HLA class I allotypes with low tapasin dependence have increased breadth of CD8+ T cell epitope presentation and are more protective in HIV infections.
PXD044539	37738134	Hydrophobic Derivatization Strategy Facilitates Comprehensive Profiling of Protein Methylation. 	Hydrophobic derivatization strategy facilitates comprehensive profiling of protein methylation	Methylproteome, high pH strong cation exchange chromatography, hydrophobic derivatization, methylated short peptides identification	Protein methylation is receiving more and more attention due to its essential role in diverse biological processes. Large-scale analysis of protein methylation requires the efficient identification of methylated peptides at the proteome level; unfortunately, a significant number of methylated peptides are highly hydrophilic and hardly retained during reversed-phase chromatography, making it difficult to be identified by conventional approaches. Herein, we report the development of a novel strategy by combining hydrophobic derivatization and high pH strong cation exchange enrichment, which significantly expands the identification coverage of the methylproteome. Noteworthily, the total number of identified methylated short peptides was improved by more than 2-fold. By this strategy, we identified 492 methylation sites from NCI-H460 cells compared to only 356 sites identified in native forms. The identification of methylation sites before and after derivatization was highly complementary. Approximately 2-fold the methylation sites were obtained by combining the results identified in both approaches (native and derivatized) as compared with the only analysis in native forms. Therefore, this novel chemical derivatization strategy is a promising approach for the comprehensive identification of protein methylation by improving the identification of methylated short peptides.
PXD036798	37738970	SARS-CoV-2 variants evolve convergent strategies to remodel the host response. 	SARS-CoV-2 variants evolve convergent strategies to remodel the host response: Affinity Purification Mass Spectrometry (APMS)	APMS, COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, host, host response, infection, lung, omics, protein-protein interactions	SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) emerged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, we used unbiased systems approaches to study the host-selective forces driving VOC evolution. We discovered that VOCs evolved convergent strategies to remodel the host by modulating viral RNA and protein levels, altering viral and host protein phosphorylation, and rewiring virus-host protein-protein interactions. Integrative computational analyses revealed that although Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta ultimately converged to suppress interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), Omicron BA.1 did not. ISG suppression correlated with the expression of viral innate immune antagonist proteins, including Orf6, N, and Orf9b, which we mapped to specific mutations. Later Omicron subvariants BA.4 and BA.5 more potently suppressed innate immunity than early subvariant BA.1, which correlated with Orf6 levels, although muted in BA.4 by a mutation that disrupts the Orf6-nuclear pore interaction. Our findings suggest that SARS-CoV-2 convergent evolution overcame human adaptive and innate immune barriers, laying the groundwork to tackle future pandemics.
PXD036821	37738983	Impact of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 and its variant polymorphisms on host responses and viral pathogenesis. 	The accessory protein ORF6 contributes to SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis by regulating host and viral gene expression	COVID, COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, coronavirus, infection, orf6, phosphoproteomics	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) encodes several proteins that inhibit host interferon responses. Among these, ORF6 antagonizes interferon signaling by disrupting nucleocytoplasmic trafficking through interactions with the nuclear pore complex components Nup98-Rae1. However, the roles and contributions of ORF6 during physiological infection remain unexplored. We assessed the role of ORF6 during infection using recombinant viruses carrying a deletion or loss-of-function (LoF) mutation in ORF6. ORF6 plays key roles in interferon antagonism and viral pathogenesis by interfering with nuclear import and specifically the translocation of IRF and STAT transcription factors. Additionally, ORF6 inhibits cellular mRNA export, resulting in the remodeling of the host cell proteome, and regulates viral protein expression. Interestingly, the ORF6:D61L mutation that emerged in the Omicron BA.2 and BA.4 variants exhibits reduced interactions with Nup98-Rae1 and consequently impairs immune evasion. Our findings highlight the role of ORF6 in antagonizing innate immunity and emphasize the importance of studying the immune evasion strategies of SARS-CoV-2.
PXD042098	37739411	The TRIM69-MST2 signaling axis regulates centrosome dynamics and chromosome segregation. 	Deciphering TRIM69 interactors and its phosphor-proteomic regulation in centrosome dynamics	Centrosome dynamics, IP mass-spectrometry, KGG, Phosphoproteomic profiling	Stringent control of centrosome duplication and separation is important for preventing chromosome instability. Structural and numerical alterations in centrosomes are hallmarks of neoplastic cells and contribute to tumorigenesis. We show that a Centrosome Amplification 20 (CA20) gene signature is associated with high expression of the Tripartite Motif (TRIM) family member E3 ubiquitin ligase, TRIM69. TRIM69-ablation in cancer cells leads to centrosome scattering and chromosome segregation defects. We identify Serine/threonine-protein kinase 3 (MST2) as a new direct binding partner of TRIM69. TRIM69 redistributes MST2 to the perinuclear cytoskeleton, promotes its association with Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) and stimulates MST2 phosphorylation at S15 (a known PLK1 phosphorylation site that is critical for centrosome disjunction). TRIM69 also promotes microtubule bundling and centrosome segregation that requires PRC1 and DYNEIN. Taken together, we identify TRIM69 as a new proximal regulator of distinct signaling pathways that regulate centrosome dynamics and promote bipolar mitosis.
PXD044544	37739936	SCARB2 drives hepatocellular carcinoma tumor initiating cells via enhanced MYC transcriptional activity. 	Proteins that interaction with SCARB2 in HCCLM3 cells and  analysis of acetylation site of MYC in SCARB2-overexpressing HCCLM3 cells	Acetylation, IP, Interaction, MYC, SCARB2	CSCs (Cancer stem cells) with distinct metabolic features are considered to cause HCC (hepatocellular carcinoma) initiation, metastasis and therapeutic resistance. Here, we perform a metabolic gene CRISPR/Cas9 knockout library screen in tumorspheres derived from HCC cells and find that deletion of SCARB2 suppresses the cancer stem cell-like properties of HCC cells. Knockout of Scarb2 in hepatocytes attenuates HCC initiation and progression in both MYC-driven and DEN (diethylnitrosamine)-induced HCC mouse models. Mechanistically, binding of SCARB2 with MYC promotes MYC acetylation by interfering with HDCA3-mediated MYC deacetylation on lysine 148 and subsequently enhances MYC transcriptional activity. Screening of a database of FDA (Food and Drug Administration)-approved drugs shows Polymyxin B displays high binding affinity for SCARB2 protein, disrupts the SCARB2-MYC interaction, decreases MYC activity, and reduces the tumor burden. Our study identifies SCARB2 as a functional driver of HCC and suggests Polymyxin B-based treatment as a targeted therapeutic option for HCC.
PXD042717	37739981	Comparative proteomic analysis of edible bird's nest from different origins. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of edible bird's nest from different origins.	Edible bird's nest, Gene ontology, Genetic origin, Hierarchical clustering analysis, Label-free proteomic, Principal component analysis, Protein identification	Edible bird's nest (EBN) mainly made of saliva that secreted by a variety of swiftlets is a kind of precious traditional Chinese medicine. EBNs from different biological and geographical origins exhibit varieties in morphology, material composition, nutritive value and commercial value. Here, we collected four different EBN samples from Huaiji, China (Grass EBN), Nha Trang, Vietnam (Imperial EBN) and East Kalimantan, Indonesia (White EBN and Feather EBN) respectively, and applied label-free quantitative MS-based proteomics technique to identify its protein composition. First, phylogenetic analysis was performed based on cytb gene to identify its biological origin. Second, a total of 37 proteins of EBNs were identified, among which there were six common proteins that detected in all samples and exhibited relatively higher content. Gene ontology analysis revealed the possible function of EBN proteins, and principal component analysis and hierarchical clustering analysis based on 37 proteins were performed to compare the difference of various EBNs. In summary, our study deciphered the common and characteristic protein components of EBNs of different origins and described their possible functions by GO enrichment analysis, which helps to establish an objective and reliable quality evaluation system.
PXD042275	37740676	The silk gland proteome of Stenopsyche angustata provides insights into the underwater silk secretion. 	The silk gland proteome of Stenopsyche angustata provides insights into the underwater silk secretion	Caddisfly, Fibroin, Phosphorylation, Silk gland, Trichoptera	Caddisworms (Trichoptera) spin adhesive silks to construct a variety of underwater composite structures. Many studies have focused on the fibroin heavy chain of caddisworm silk and found that it contains heavy phosphorylation to maintain a stable secondary structure. Besides fibroins, recent studies have also identified some new silk proteins within caddisworm silk. To better understand the silk composition and its secretion process, this study reports the silk gland proteome of a retreat-building caddisworm, Stenopsyche angustata Martynov (Trichoptera, Stenopsychidae). Using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), 2389 proteins were identified in the silk gland of S. angustata, among which 192 were predicted as secreted silk proteins. Twenty-nine proteins were found to be enriched in the front silk gland, whereas 109 proteins were enriched in the caudal silk gland. The fibroin heavy chain and nine uncharacterized silk proteins were identified as phosphorylated proteins. By analysing the sequence of the fibroin heavy chain, we found that it contains 13 Gly/Thr/Pro-rich regions, 12 Val/Ser/Arg-rich regions and a Gly/Arg/Thr-rich region. Three uncharacterized proteins were identified as sericin-like proteins due to their larger molecular weights, signal peptides and repetitive motifs rich in serine. This study provides valuable information for further clarifying the secretion and adhesion of underwater caddisworm silk.
PXD043907	37741838	Structure of the peroxisomal Pex1/Pex6 ATPase complex bound to a substrate. 	Identification of interactors in structure of the peroxisomal AAA ATPase Pex1/Pex6	Pex1, Pex6, cryoEM, structure	The double-ring AAA+ ATPase Pex1/Pex6 is required for peroxisomal receptor recycling and is essential for peroxisome formation. Pex1/Pex6 mutations cause severe peroxisome associated developmental disorders. Despite its pathophysiological importance, mechanistic details of the heterohexamer are not yet available. Here, we report cryoEM structures of Pex1/Pex6 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, with an endogenous protein substrate trapped in the central pore of the catalytically active second ring (D2). Pairs of Pex1/Pex6(D2) subdomains engage the substrate via a staircase of pore-1 loops with distinct properties. The first ring (D1) is catalytically inactive but undergoes significant conformational changes resulting in alternate widening and narrowing of its pore. These events are fueled by ATP hydrolysis in the D2 ring and disengagement of a "twin-seam" Pex1/Pex6(D2) heterodimer from the staircase. Mechanical forces are propagated in a unique manner along Pex1/Pex6 interfaces that are not available in homo-oligomeric AAA-ATPases. Our structural analysis reveals the mechanisms of how Pex1 and Pex6 coordinate to achieve substrate translocation.
PXD041514	37742010	LINC00955 suppresses colorectal cancer growth by acting as a molecular scaffold of TRIM25 and Sp1 to Inhibit DNMT3B-mediated methylation of the PHIP promoter. 	LINC00955 Suppresses Colorectal Cancer Growth by Acting as a Molecular Scaffold of TRIM25 and Sp1 to Inhibit DNMT3B-mediated Methylation of the PHIP Promoter-nanoLCMS/MS analysis	nanoLCMS/MS analysis,LINC00955	BACKGROUND: Long non-coding RNAs play an important role in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC), while many CRC-related lncRNAs have not yet been identified. METHODS: The relationship between the expression of LINC00955 (Long Intergenic Non-protein Coding RNA 955) and the prognosis of colorectal cancer patients was analyzed using the sequencing results of the TCGA database. LINC00955 expression levels were measured using qRT-PCR. The anti-proliferative activity of LINC00955 was evaluated using CRC cell lines in vitro and xenograft models in nude mice in vivo. The interaction of TRIM25-Sp1-DNMT3B-PHIP-CDK2 was analyzed by western blotting, protein degradation experiment, luciferase, RNA-IP, RNA pull-down assays and immunohistochemically analysis. The biological roles of LINC00955, tripartite motif containing 25 (TRIM25), Sp1 transcription factor (Sp1), DNA methyltransferase 3 beta (DNMT3B), pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein (PHIP), cyclin dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) in colorectal cancer cells were analyzed using ATP assays, Soft agar experiments and EdU assays. RESULTS: The present study showed that LINC00955 is downregulated in CRC tissues, and such downregulation is associated with poor prognosis of CRC patients. We found that LINC00955 can inhibit CRC cell growth both in vitro and in vivo. Evaluation of its mechanism of action showed that LINC00955 acts as a scaffold molecule that directly promotes the binding of TRIM25 to Sp1, and promotes ubiquitination and degradation of Sp1, thereby attenuating transcription and expression of DNMT3B. DNMT3B inhibition results in hypomethylation of the PHIP promoter, in turn increasing PHIP transcription and promoting ubiquitination and degradation of CDK2, ultimately leading to G0/G1 growth arrest and inhibition of CRC cell growth. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that downregulation of LINC00955 in CRC cells promotes tumor growth through the TRIM25/Sp1/DNMT3B/PHIP/CDK2 regulatory axis, suggesting that LINC00955 may be a potential target for the therapy of CRC.
PXD042145	37742077	Coordination between aminoacylation and editing to protect against proteotoxicity. 	Saccharomyces cerevisiae translational fidelity	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, mistranslation, protein synthesis	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs) are essential enzymes that ligate amino acids to tRNAs, and often require editing to ensure accurate protein synthesis. Recessive mutations in aaRSs cause various neurological disorders in humans, yet the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Pathogenic aaRS mutations frequently cause protein destabilization and aminoacylation deficiency. In this study, we report that combined aminoacylation and editing defects cause severe proteotoxicity. We show that the ths1-C268A mutation in yeast threonyl-tRNA synthetase (ThrRS) abolishes editing and causes heat sensitivity. Surprisingly, experimental evolution of the mutant results in intragenic mutations that restore heat resistance but not editing. ths1-C268A destabilizes ThrRS and decreases overall Thr-tRNAThr synthesis, while the suppressor mutations in the evolved strains improve aminoacylation. We further show that deficiency in either ThrRS aminoacylation or editing is insufficient to cause heat sensitivity, and that ths1-C268A impairs ribosome-associated quality control. Our results suggest that aminoacylation deficiency predisposes cells to proteotoxic stress.
PXD033744	37743383	Serum APOC1 levels are decreased in young autoantibody positive children who rapidly progress to type 1 diabetes. 	Serum APOC1 levels are decreased in seroconverted children who progress to type 1 diabetes at a young age	plasma, serum, type 1 diabetes	Better understanding of the early events in the development of type 1 diabetes is needed to improve prediction and monitoring of the disease progression during the substantially heterogeneous presymptomatic period of the beta cell damaging process. To address this concern, we used mass spectrometry-based proteomics to analyse longitudinal pre-onset plasma sample series from children positive for multiple islet autoantibodies who had rapidly progressed to type 1 diabetes before 4 years of age (n = 10) and compared these with similar measurements from matched children who were either positive for a single autoantibody (n = 10) or autoantibody negative (n = 10). Following statistical analysis of the longitudinal data, targeted serum proteomics was used to verify 11 proteins putatively associated with the disease development in a similar yet independent and larger cohort of children who progressed to the disease within 5 years of age (n = 31) and matched autoantibody negative children (n = 31). These data reiterated extensive age-related trends for protein levels in young children. Further, these analyses demonstrated that the serum levels of two peptides unique for apolipoprotein C1 (APOC1) were decreased after the appearance of the first islet autoantibody and remained relatively less abundant in children who progressed to type 1 diabetes, in comparison to autoantibody negative children.
PXD040099	37744355	Urine SERPINC1/ORM1 as biomarkers for early detection of lupus nephritis in MRL-lpr mice. 	SWATH-MS based protein quantification for diagnosis in systemic lupus erythematous	Lupus erythematous, SWATH, Urine	Background: To evaluate the usefulness of urine SERPINC1 and ORM1 as biomarkers for early detection of lupus nephritis (LN). Methods: Using proteomics, we screened for potential urine biomarkers that differentiate LN from systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients without nephritis. In addition, urine levels of target biomarkers were measured by ELISA in 13- and 23-week-old MRL-lpr (murine model for LN) and MRL/MpJ mice. Histological analysis was also performed on the kidneys of 23-week-old mice. Results: Urine SERPINC1 and ORM1 were elevated in SLE patients with newly diagnosed LN compared with SLE patients without LN (SERPINC1, AUC=.892, P<.001; ORM1, AUC=.886, P<.001). Levels of urine SERPINC1 and ORM1 were also significantly higher in MRL-lpr mice than in MRL/MpJ mice at 13 and 23 weeks (SERPINC1: p<.01 and p<.001 at 13 and 23 weeks, respectively; ORM1: p<.01 at 13 and 23 weeks). In contrast, a significant difference in urine albumin between the two groups was only observed at 23 weeks (p<.001) not at 13 weeks (p=.83). Regarding the kidney pathology of MPL-lpr mice, urine ORM1 and urine albumin, but not urine SERPINC1, were positively correlated with the activity index (ORM1, rho =.879, p<.001; albumin, rho =.807, p=.003) and chronicity index (ORM1, rho =.947, p<.001; albumin, rho =.869, p<.001). Conclusion: We propose that urine SERPINC1 and ORM1 are novel biomarkers for early LN.
PXD040519	37744407	Curated cauldrons: Preserved proteins from early copper-alloy vessels illuminate feasting practices in the Caucasian steppe. 	Curated cauldrons: Preserved proteins from early copper alloy vessels illuminate feasting practices in the steppe	Maykop, ancient proteins, cauldrons, steppe	Large metal and metal-alloy cauldrons first appear on the far western steppe and Caucasus region during the Maykop period (3700-2900 BCE); however, the types of foods or beverages cooked in and served from these vessels have remained mysterious. Here, we present proteomic analysis of nine residues from copper-alloy cauldrons from Maykop burial contexts where we identify muscle, blood, and milk proteins specific to domesticated, and possibly wild, ruminants. This study clearly demonstrates that the earliest, large-volume feasting vessels contained both primary and secondary animal products, likely prepared in the form of a stew.
PXD040215	37747248	Impact of DnaK on protein expression and deamidation modification in Cronobacter sakazakii: insights from proteomic analysis. 	proteomic analysis of dnaK deletion in Cronobacter sakazakii BAA-894	Cronobacter sakazakii BAA-894, chaperone, dnaK, knockout	This study explores the influence of DnaK on intracellular proteins in Cronobacter sakazakii, a Gram-negative bacterium known for causing infections, particularly in neonates. Proteomic and post-translational modification analyses were performed, revealing a potential link between DnaK and protein deamidation.
PXD044209	37747260	EPURISp: Combining Enzymatic Digestion, Ultrafiltration, and Rapid In Situ Sample Purification for High-performance Proteomics. 	EPURISp: Combining Enzymatic Digestion, Ultrafiltration, and Rapid In-situ Sample Purification for High-performance Proteomics	EPURISp, Ultrafiltration, desalting	High-performance liquid tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS) is widely employed for protein analysis in biological systems. However, conventional proteomic sample pretreatment methods suffer from multiple steps and poor reproducibility. In this study, we introduce EPURISp (Enzymatic Digestion with Ultrafiltration and Rapid In-situ Sample Purification), a novel proteomic pretreatment technique that combines enzymatic digestion, ultrafiltration, and one-step temperature-controlled vacuum drying for efficient desalting. The EPURISp method exhibits excellent protein recovery rates across a wide range of molecular weights and hydrophilicity, surpassing traditional C18 desalting approaches. Practical proteomic analysis (PXD044209) utilizing EPURISp demonstrates the highest protein identification yield with remarkable reproducibility, which is particularly advantageous in membrane protein identification. Notably, EPURISp exhibits superior performance in minimizing oxidation and deamidation modifications compared with conventional FASP methods. This innovative EPURISp method represents a significant advancement in proteomics analysis, providing reliable and efficient results for mass spectrometry.
PXD042508	37748748	A Malassezia pseudoprotease dominates the secreted hydrolase landscape and is a potential allergen on skin. 	An aspartyl pseudoprotease dominates the secretory hydrolase landscape of the skin commensal Malassezia in situ	Malassezia globosa, secretory hydrolase, skin	Malassezia globosa is abundant and prevalent on sebaceous areas of the human skin. Genome annotation reveals that M. globosa possesses a repertoire of secreted hydrolytic enzymes relevant for lipid and protein metabolism. However, the functional significance of these enzymes is uncertain and presence of these genes in the genome does not always translate to expression at the cutaneous surface. In this study we utilized targeted RNA sequencing from samples isolated directly from the skin to quantify gene expression of M. globosa secreted proteases, lipases, phospholipases and sphingomyelinases. Our findings indicate that the expression of these enzymes is dynamically regulated by the environment in which the fungus resides, as different growth phases of the planktonic culture of M. globosa show distinct expression levels. Furthermore, we observed significant differences in the expression of these enzymes in culture compared to healthy sebaceous skin sites. By examining the in situ gene expression of M. globosa's secreted hydrolases, we identified a predicted aspartyl protease, MGL_3331, which is highly expressed on both healthy and disease-affected dermatological sites. However, molecular modeling and biochemical studies revealed that this protein has a non-canonical active site motif and lacks measurable proteolytic activity. This pseudoprotease MGL_3331 elicits a heightened IgE-reactivity in blood plasma isolated from patients with atopic dermatitis compared to healthy individuals and invokes a pro-inflammatory response in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Overall, our study highlights the importance of studying fungal proteins expressed in physiologically relevant environments and underscores the notion that secreted inactive enzymes may have important functions in influencing host immunity.
PXD025709	37749610	Histone crotonylation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells is a potential biomarker for diagnosis of colorectal cancer. 	Human colorectal cancer LC-MS/MS	colorectal cancer	BACKGROUND: Blood-based tests have public appeal in screening cancers due to their minimally invasive nature, ability to integrate with other routine blood tests, and high compliance. This study aimed to investigate whether certain epigenetic modulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) could be a biomarker of colorectal cancer (CRC). RESULTS: Western blotting of histones in the PBMCs from 40 colorectal cancer patients and 40 healthy controls was performed to identify the crotonylation sites of proteins. The correlation of crotonylation with tumor staging and diagnostic efficacy were analyzed. Crotonylation of H2BK12 (H2BK12cr) was identified significantly upregulated in the PBMCs of CRC patients compared to healthy controls, and were closely related to distant metastasis (P = 0.0478) and late TNM stage (P = 0.0201). Receiver operator characteristic curve (ROC) analysis demonstrated that the area under curve (AUC) of H2BK12cr was 0.8488, the sensitivity was 70%, and the specificity was 92.5%. The H2BK12cr parameter significantly increased the diagnostic effectiveness of CRC compared with the commercial carcinoembryonic antigen assays. CONCLUSIONS: The H2BK12cr level in PBMCs of CRC patients has a potential to be a biomarker for distinguishing CRC patients from healthy controls with the advantages of easy operation and high diagnostic efficacy.
PXD040136	37750538	The accelerated organ senescence and proteotoxicity in thyrotoxicosis mice. 	Proteome of heart, liver and kidney in thyrotoxicosis mice	heart, kidney, liver, thyrotoxicosis mice	The mechanism of aging has always been the focus of research, because aging is related to disease susceptibility and seriously affects people's quality of life. The diseases also accelerate the aging process, especially the pathological changes of substantive organs, such as cardiac hypertrophy, severely shortened lifespan. So, lesions in organs are both a consequence and a cause of aging. However, the disease in a given organ is not in isolation but is a systemic problem. Our previous study found that thyrotoxicosis mice model has aging characteristics including immunosenescence, lipotoxicity, malnutrition. But all these characteristics will lead to organ senescence, therefore, this study continued to study the aging changes of important organs such as heart, liver, and kidney in thyrotoxicosis mice using tandem mass tags (TMT) proteomics method. The results showed that the excess thyroxine led to cardiac hypertrophy. In the liver, the ability to synthesize functional proteins, detoxify, and metabolism were declined. The effect on the kidney was the decreased ability of detoxify and metabolism. The main finding of the present study was that the acceleration of organ senescence by excess thyroxine was due to proteotoxicity. The shared cause of proteotoxicity in the three organs included the intensify of oxidative phosphorylation, the redundancy production of ribosomes, and the lack of splicing and ubiquitin proteasome system function. Totally, proteotoxicity was another parallel between thyrotoxicosis and aging in addition to lipotoxicity. Our research provided a convenient and appropriate animal model for exploring aging mechanism and antiaging drugs.
PXD045233	37751556	alpha-lipoic acid ameliorates consequences of copper overload by up-regulating selenoproteins and decreasing redox misbalance. 	alpha-Lipoic acid ameliorates consequences of copper overload by upregulating selenoproteins and decreasing redox misbalance	Wilson disease, copper, oxidative stress, selenoprotein, alpha-lipoic acid	alpha-lipoic acid (LA) is an essential cofactor for mitochondrial dehydrogenases and is required for cell growth, metabolic fuel production, and antioxidant defense. In vitro, LA binds copper (Cu) with high affinity and as an endogenous membrane permeable metabolite could be advantageous in mitigating the consequences of Cu overload in human diseases. We tested this hypothesis in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes with inactivated Cu transporter Atp7a; these cells accumulate Cu and show morphologic changes and mitochondria impairment. Treatment with LA corrected the morphology of Atp7a(-/-) cells similar to the Cu chelator bathocuproinedisulfonate (BCS) and improved mitochondria function; however, the mechanisms of LA and BCS action were different. Unlike BCS, LA did not decrease intracellular Cu but instead increased selenium levels that were low in Atp7a(-/-) cells. Proteome analysis confirmed distinct cell responses to these compounds and identified upregulation of selenoproteins as the major effect of LA on preadipocytes. Upregulation of selenoproteins was associated with an improved GSH:GSSG ratio in cellular compartments, which was lowered by elevated Cu, and reversal of protein oxidation. Thus, LA diminishes toxic effects of elevated Cu by improving cellular redox environment. We also show that selenium levels are decreased in tissues of a Wilson disease animal model, especially in the liver, making LA an attractive candidate for supplemental treatment of this disease.
PXD038059	37751693	Hybrid structural modeling of alloantibody binding to human leukocyte antigen with rapid and reproducible cross-linking mass spectrometry. 	Crosslinking MS of Antibody-HLA-A*11:01	Antibody, Cross-linking MS, HLA	Alloantibody recognition of donor human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is associated with poor clinical transplantation outcomes. However, the molecular and structural basis for the alloantibody-HLA interaction is not well understood. Here, we used a hybrid structural modeling approach on a previously studied alloantibody-HLA interacting pair with inputs from ab initio, in silico, and in vitro data. Highly reproducible cross-linking mass spectrometry data were obtained with both discovery- and targeted mass spectrometry-based approaches approaches. The cross-link information was then used together with predicted antibody Fv structure, predicted antibody paratope, and in silico-predicted interacting surface to model the antibody-HLA interaction. This hybrid structural modeling approach closely recapitulates the key interacting residues from a previously solved crystal structure of an alloantibody-HLA-A*11:01 pair. These results suggest that a predictive-based hybrid structural modeling approach supplemented with cross-linking mass spectrometry data can provide functionally relevant structural models to understand the structural basis of antibody-HLA mismatch in transplantation.
PXD039560	37751929	Znf598-mediated Rps10/eS10 ubiquitination contributes to the ribosome ubiquitination dynamics during zebrafish development. 	Znf598-mediated Rps10/eS10 Ubiquitination contributes to the ribosome ubiquitination dynamics during zebrafish development	IP, ribosome, ubiquitination, zebrafish	The ribosome is a translational apparatus that comprises about 80 ribosomal proteins and four rRNAs. Recent studies reported that ribosome ubiquitination is crucial for translational regulation and ribosome-associated quality control (RQC). However, little is known about the dynamics of ribosome ubiquitination under complex biological processes of multicellular organisms. To explore ribosome ubiquitination during animal development, we generated a zebrafish strain that expresses a FLAG-tagged ribosomal protein Rpl36/eL36 from its endogenous locus. We examined ribosome ubiquitination during zebrafish development by combining affinity purification of ribosomes from rpl36-FLAG zebrafish embryos with immunoblotting analysis. Our findings showed that the ubiquitination of ribosomal proteins dynamically changed as development proceeded. We also showed that during zebrafish development, the ribosome was ubiquitinated by Znf598, an E3 ubiquitin ligase that activates RQC. Ribosomal protein Rps10/eS10 was found to be a key ubiquitinated protein during development. Furthermore, we showed that Rps10/eS10 ubiquitination-site mutations reduced the overall ubiquitination pattern of the ribosome. These results demonstrate the complexity and dynamics of ribosome ubiquitination during zebrafish development.
PXD038079	37754565	PP2C phosphatases Ptc1 and Ptc2 dephosphorylate PGK1 to regulate autophagy and aflatoxin synthesis in the pathogenic fungus Aspergillus flavus. 	Interaction protein of Ptc1::eGFP and Ptc2::eGFP in Aspergillus flavus	Aspergillus flavus, IP/MS, Ptc1, Ptc2	Reversible phosphorylation by protein kinases and phosphatases plays a central role in regulating cellular processes. However, knowledge of the functions of protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) S/T phosphatases in Aspergillus flavus has been unreported until now. Here, we have identified seven members of the PP2C family of protein phosphatases in A. flavus. Evolutionary and functional analyses indicated that two redundant PP2C phosphatases, Ptc1 and Ptc2, are highly conserved and regulate conidia development, aflatoxin synthesis, seed infection, and autophagic vesicle formation. The cytoplasmic proteins Ptc1 and Ptc2 exhibit nuclear infiltration after DNA damage-induced autophagy. Their degradation is closely linked to autophagy induction. The Asp residue coordinated with Mg(2+) is critical for phosphatase Ptc1 and Ptc2 activity, thermal stability, and biofunction in A. flavus. An immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry proteomic investigation indicated that 133 proteins co-interact with Ptc1 and Ptc2. Among these proteins, phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1) interacts with Ptc1 and Ptc2 and shows high levels of phosphorylation in Deltaptc1, Deltaptc2, and Deltaptc1/ptc2 mutants. Furthermore, PGK1 S203 phosphorylation levels are associated with aflatoxin synthesis and autophagic vesicle formation. Overall, these findings contribute to our understanding of the roles and mechanisms of PP2C family phosphatases in A. flavus and highlight their importance in various cellular processes. Furthermore, it reveals a new regulation model in A. flavus, where Ptc1 and Ptc2 activate autophagy and aflatoxin synthesis by regulating PGK1. IMPORTANCE Aspergillus flavus is a model filamentous fungus that can produce aflatoxins when it infects agricultural crops. This study evaluated the protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) family as a potential drug target with important physiological functions and pathological significance in A. flavus. We found that two redundant PP2C phosphatases, Ptc1 and Ptc2, regulate conidia development, aflatoxin synthesis, autophagic vesicle formation, and seed infection. The target protein phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1) that interacts with Ptc1 and Ptc2 is essential to regulate metabolism and the autophagy process. Furthermore, Ptc1 and Ptc2 regulate the phosphorylation level of PGK1 S203, which is important for influencing aflatoxin synthesis. Our results provide a potential target for interdicting the toxicity of A. flavus.
PXD040614	37754980	The Adaptation of Botrytis cinerea Extracellular Vesicles Proteome to Surrounding Conditions: Revealing New Tools for Its Infection Process. 	First description of Botrytis cinerea Extracellular vesicles proteome: Unrevealing new tools for its infection process	Botrytis cinerea, Extracellular vesicles, cell wall degrading enzyme, infection tool, pathogenicity factors, unconventional secretion, virulence factors	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membranous particles released by different organisms. EVs carry several sets of macromolecules implicated in cell communication. EVs have become a relevant topic in the study of pathogenic fungi due to their relationship with fungal-host interactions. One of the essential research areas in this field is the characterization protein profile of EVs since plant fungal pathogens rely heavily on secreted proteins to invade their hosts. However, EVs of Botrytis cinerea are little known, which is one of the most devastating phytopathogenic fungi. The present study has two main objectives: the characterization of B. cinerea EVs proteome changes under two pathogenic conditions and the description of their potential role during the infective process. All the experimental procedure was conducted in B. cinerea growing in a minimal salt medium supplemented with glucose as a constitutive stage and deproteinized tomato cell walls (TCW) as a virulence inductor. The isolation of EVs was performed by differential centrifugation, filtration, ultrafiltration, and sucrose cushion ultracentrifugation. EVs fractions were visualised by TEM using negative staining. Proteomic analysis of EVs cargo was addressed by LC-MS/MS. The methodology used allowed the correct isolation of B. cinerea EVs and the identification of a high number of EV proteins, including potential EV markers. The isolated EVs displayed differences in morphology under both assayed conditions. GO analysis of EV proteins showed enrichment in cell wall metabolism and proteolysis under TCW. KEGG analysis also showed the difference in EVs function under both conditions, highlighting the presence of potential virulence/pathogenic factors implicated in cell wall metabolism, among others. This work describes the first evidence of EVs protein cargo adaptation in B. cinerea, which seems to play an essential role in its infection process, sharing crucial functions with the conventional secretion pathways.
PXD031094	37756153	Using PrISMa to reveal the interactome of the human claudins family. 	Pan-claudin family interactome analysis reveals shared and specific interactions	Claudin, Interactome, PRISMA, Peptide pulldown, Pulldown	Here, we provide a protocol for the systematic screening of protein-protein interactions mediated by short linear motifs using the Protein Interaction Screen on a peptide Matrix (PrISMa) technique. We describe how to pull down interacting proteins in a parallelized manner and identify them by mass spectrometry. Finally, we describe a bioinformatic workflow necessary to identify highly probable interaction partners in the large-scale dataset. We describe the application of this method for the transient interactome of the claudin protein family. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Suarez-Artiles et al.(1).
PXD035735	37756380	Secreted folate receptor gamma drives fibrogenesis in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis by amplifying TGFbeta signaling in hepatic stellate cells. 	Secreted folate receptor-gamma drives fibrogenesis in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis by amplifying TGFbeta signaling in hepatic stellate cells	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, folate receptor gamma, hepatic stellate cells, transforming growth factor beta	Hepatic fibrosis is the primary determinant of mortality in patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta), a master profibrogenic cytokine, is a promising therapeutic target that has not yet been translated into an effective therapy in part because of liabilities associated with systemic TGFbeta antagonism. We have identified that soluble folate receptor gamma (FOLR3), which is expressed in humans but not in rodents, is a secreted protein that is elevated in the livers of patients with MASH but not in those with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease, those with type II diabetes, or healthy individuals. Global proteomics showed that FOLR3 was the most highly significant MASH-specific protein and was positively correlated with increasing fibrosis stage, consistent with stimulation of activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which are the key fibrogenic cells in the liver. Exposure of HSCs to exogenous FOLR3 led to elevated extracellular matrix (ECM) protein production, an effect synergistically potentiated by TGFbeta1. We found that FOLR3 interacts with the serine protease HTRA1, a known regulator of TGFBR, and activates TGFbeta signaling. Administration of human FOLR3 to mice induced severe bridging fibrosis and an ECM pattern resembling human MASH. Our study thus uncovers a role of FOLR3 in enhancing fibrosis.
PXD039192	37756393	A fitness trade-off between growth and survival governed by Spo0A-mediated proteome allocation constraints in Bacillus subtilis. 	Bacillus subtilis spo0A trade-off	B. subtilis, Mannose medium, Spo0A-null strain	Growth and survival are key determinants of bacterial fitness. However, how resource allocation of bacteria could reconcile these two traits to maximize fitness remains poorly understood. Here, we find that the resource allocation strategy of Bacillus subtilis does not lead to growth maximization on various carbon sources. Survival-related pathways impose strong proteome constraints on B. subtilis. Knockout of a master regulator gene, spo0A, triggers a global resource reallocation from survival-related pathways to biosynthesis pathways, further strongly stimulating the growth of B. subtilis. However, the fitness of spo0A-null strain is severely compromised because of various disadvantageous phenotypes (e.g., abolished sporulation and enhanced cell lysis). In particular, it also exhibits a strong defect in peptide utilization, being unable to efficiently recycle nutrients from the lysed cell debris to maintain long-term viability. Our work uncovers a fitness trade-off between growth and survival that governed by Spo0A-mediated proteome allocation constraints in B. subtilis, further shedding light on the fundamental design principle of bacteria.
PXD037433	37756525	Germline variant GFI1-36N affects DNA repair and sensitizes AML cells to DNA damage and repair therapy. 	Germline variant GFI1-36N affects DNA repair in AML cells resulting in sensitivity to DNA damage and repair therapy	AML, DNA damage and repair, GFI1, GFI1N36, Leukemia	Growth Factor Independence 1 (GFI1) is a DNA-binding transcription factor and a key regulator of haematopoiesis. GFI1-36N is a germline variant causing a change of serine (S) to asparagine (N) at position 36. We previously reported that the GFI1-36N allele has a prevalence of 10-15% among patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 5-7% among healthy Caucasians and promotes the development of this disease. Using a multi-omics approach, we show here that GFI1-36N expression is associated with increased frequencies of chromosomal aberrations, mutational burden and mutational signatures in both murine and human AML and impedes homologous recombination-directed (HR) DNA repair in leukemic cells. GFI1-36N exhibits impaired binding to N-Myc downstream-regulated gene 1 (Ndrg1) regulatory elements, causing decreased NDRG1 levels, which leads to a reduction of O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) expression levels illustrated by both transcriptome and proteome analyses. Targeting MGMT via temozolomide, a DNA alkylating drug, and HR via olaparib, a PARP1 inhibitor, caused synthetic lethality in human and murine AML samples expressing GFI1-36N, whereas the effects were insignificant in non-malignant GFI1-36S or GFI1-36N cells. In addition, mice transplanted with GFI1-36N leukemic cells treated with a combination of temozolomide and olaparib had significantly longer AML-free survival than mice transplanted with GFI1-36S leukemic cells. This suggests that reduced MGMT expression leaves GFI1-36N leukemic cells particularly vulnerable to DNA damage initiating chemotherapeutics. Our data provide critical insights into novel options to treat AML patients carrying the GFI1-36N variant.
PXD038358	37757899	Proteome census upon nutrient stress reveals Golgiphagy membrane receptors. 	Quantitative mapping of autophagic cargo during nutrient stress reveals YIPF3 - YIPF4 as membrane receptors for Golgiphagy	Autophagy, Golgiphagy, Protein turnover, nutrient stress	During nutrient stress, macroautophagy degrades cellular macromolecules, thereby providing biosynthetic building blocks while simultaneously remodelling the proteome(1,2). Although the machinery responsible for initiation of macroautophagy has been well characterized(3,4), our understanding of the extent to which individual proteins, protein complexes and organelles are selected for autophagic degradation, and the underlying targeting mechanisms, is limited. Here we use orthogonal proteomic strategies to provide a spatial proteome census of autophagic cargo during nutrient stress in mammalian cells. We find that macroautophagy has selectivity for recycling membrane-bound organelles (principally Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum). Through autophagic cargo prioritization, we identify a complex of membrane-embedded proteins, YIPF3 and YIPF4, as receptors for Golgiphagy. During nutrient stress, YIPF3 and YIPF4 interact with ATG8 proteins through LIR motifs and are mobilized into autophagosomes that traffic to lysosomes in a process that requires the canonical autophagic machinery. Cells lacking YIPF3 or YIPF4 are selectively defective in elimination of a specific cohort of Golgi membrane proteins during nutrient stress. Moreover, YIPF3 and YIPF4 play an analogous role in Golgi remodelling during programmed conversion of stem cells to the neuronal lineage in vitro. Collectively, the findings of this study reveal prioritization of membrane protein cargo during nutrient-stress-dependent proteome remodelling and identify a Golgi remodelling pathway that requires membrane-embedded receptors.
PXD045063	37757903	Deubiquitinating PABPC1 by USP10 upregulates CLK2 translation to promote tumor progression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. 	Deubiquitinating PABPC1 by USP10 upregulates CLK2 translation to promote tumor progression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	CLK2, PABPC1, USP10, deubiquitination, pancreatic cancer	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is extremely malignant with limited treatment options. Deubiquitinases (DUBs), which cleave ubiquitin on substrates, can regulate tumor progression and are appealing therapeutic targets, but there are few related studies in PDAC. In our study, we screened the expression levels and prognostic value of USP family members based on published databases and selected USP10 as the potential interventional target in PDAC. IHC staining of the PDAC microarray revealed that USP10 expression was an adverse clinical feature of PDAC. USP10 promoted tumor growth both in vivo and in vitro in PDAC. Co-IP experiments revealed that USP10 directly interacts with PABPC1. Deubiquitination assays revealed that USP10 decreased the K27/29-linked ubiquitination level of the RRM2 domain of PABPC1. Deubiquitinated PABPC1 was able to couple more CLK2 mRNA and eIF4G1, which increased the translation efficiency. Replacing PABPC1 with a mutant that could not be ubiquitinated impaired USP10 knock-down-mediated tumor suppression in PDAC. Targeting USP10 significantly delayed the growth of cell-derived xenograft and patient-derived xenograft tumors. Collectively, our study first identified USP10 as the DUB of PABPC1 and provided a rationale for potential therapeutic options for PDAC with high USP10 expression.
PXD039502	37758951	piRNA processing by a trimeric Schlafen-domain nuclease. 	piRNA processing by a trimeric Schlafen-domain-containing nuclease	interactomics	Transposable elements are genomic parasites that expand within and spread between genomes(1). PIWI proteins control transposon activity, notably in the germline(2,3). These proteins recognize their targets through small RNA co-factors named PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), making piRNA biogenesis a key specificity-determining step in this crucial genome immunity system. Although the processing of piRNA precursors is an essential step in this process, many of the molecular details remain unclear. Here, we identify an endoribonuclease, precursor of 21U RNA 5'-end cleavage holoenzyme (PUCH), that initiates piRNA processing in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Genetic and biochemical studies show that PUCH, a trimer of Schlafen-like-domain proteins (SLFL proteins), executes 5'-end piRNA precursor cleavage. PUCH-mediated processing strictly requires a 7-methyl-G cap (m(7)G-cap) and a uracil at position three. We also demonstrate how PUCH interacts with PETISCO, a complex that binds to piRNA precursors(4), and that this interaction enhances piRNA production in vivo. The identification of PUCH concludes the search for the 5'-end piRNA biogenesis factor in C. elegans and uncovers a type of RNA endonuclease formed by three SLFL proteins. Mammalian Schlafen (SLFN) genes have been associated with immunity(5), exposing a molecular link between immune responses in mammals and deeply conserved RNA-based mechanisms that control transposable elements.
PXD042082	37759396	Immortalized mouse caput epididymal epithelial (mECap18) cell line recapitulates the in-vivo environment. 	Immortalized mouse caput epididymal (mECap18) cell line recapitulates in vivo environment	epididymis, fertility, male reproduction, proteomics., sperm maturation	Residing between the testes and the vas deferens, the epididymis is a highly convoluted tubule whose unique luminal microenvironment is crucial for the functional maturation of spermatozoa. This microenvironment is created by the combined secretory and resorptive activity of the lining epididymal epithelium, including the release of extracellular vesicles (epididymosomes), which encapsulate fertility modulating proteins and a myriad of small non-coding RNAs (sncRNAs) that are destined for delivery to recipient sperm cells. To enable investigation of this intercellular communication nexus, we have previously developed an immortalized mouse caput epididymal epithelial cell line (mECap18). Here, we describe the application of label-free mass spectrometry to characterize the mECap18 cell proteome and compare this to the proteome of native mouse caput epididymal epithelial cells. We report the identification of 5,313 mECap18 proteins, as many as 75.8% of which were also identified in caput epithelial cells wherein they mapped to broadly similar protein classification groupings. Furthermore, key pathways associated with protein synthesis (e.g., EIF2 signaling) and cellular protection in the male reproductive tract (e.g., sirtuin signaling) were enriched in both proteomes. This comparison supports the utility of the mECap18 cell line as a tractable in-vitro model for studying caput epididymal epithelial cell function.
PXD044235	37759700	A Lysine Residue at the C-Terminus of MHC Class I Ligands Correlates with Low C-Terminal Proteasomal Cleavage Probability. 	A lysine residue at the C-terminus of MHC class I ligands correlates with low C-terminal proteasomal cleavage probability	HLA-A*03:01, HLA-A*11:01, HLA-A*30:01, immunopeptidomics, non-canonical MHC class I ligands, peptide origin, peptide processing, proteasomal cleavage probability, proteasome-independent	The majority of peptides presented by MHC class I result from proteasomal protein turnover. The specialized immunoproteasome, which is induced during inflammation, plays a major role in antigenic peptide generation. However, other cellular proteases can, either alone or together with the proteasome, contribute peptides to MHC class I loading non-canonically. We used an immunopeptidomics workflow combined with prediction software for proteasomal cleavage probabilities to analyze how inflammatory conditions affect the proteasomal processing of immune epitopes presented by A549 cells. The treatment of A549 cells with IFNgamma enhanced the proteasomal cleavage probability of MHC class I ligands for both the constitutive proteasome and the immunoproteasome. Furthermore, IFNgamma alters the contribution of the different HLA allotypes to the immunopeptidome. When we calculated the HLA allotype-specific proteasomal cleavage probabilities for MHC class I ligands, the peptides presented by HLA-A*30:01 showed characteristics hinting at a reduced C-terminal proteasomal cleavage probability independently of the type of proteasome. This was confirmed by HLA-A*30:01 ligands from the immune epitope database, which also showed this effect. Furthermore, two additional HLA allotypes, namely, HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-A*11:01, presented peptides with a markedly reduced C-terminal proteasomal cleavage probability. The peptides eluted from all three HLA allotypes shared a peptide binding motif with a C-terminal lysine residue, suggesting that this lysine residue impairs proteasome-dependent HLA ligand production and might, in turn, favor peptide generation by other cellular proteases.
PXD044371	37759729	Multidimensional Landscape of SA-AKI Revealed by Integrated Proteomics and Metabolomics Analysis. 	Comprehensive Landscape of SA-AKI Revealed by Integrated Proteomics and Metabolomics Analysis	SA-AKI, biomarker, metabolomics, mitochondrial dysfunction	Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SA-AKI) is a severe and life-threatening condition with high morbidity and mortality among emergency patients, and it poses a significant risk of chronic renal failure. Clinical treatments for SA-AKI remain reactive and non-specific, lacking effective diagnostic biomarkers or treatment targets. In this study, we established an SA-AKI mouse model using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and performed proteomics and metabolomics analyses. A variety of bioinformatic analyses, including gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), protein and protein interactions (PPI), and MetaboAnalyst analysis, were conducted to investigate the key molecules of SA-AKI. Integrated proteomics and metabolomics analysis revealed that sepsis led to impaired renal mitochondrial function and metabolic disorders. Immune-related pathways were found to be activated in kidneys upon septic infection. The catabolic products of polyamines accumulated in septic kidneys. Overall, our integrated analysis provides a multidimensional understanding of SA-AKI and identifies potential pathways for this condition.
